
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [DESCRIPTION] 
 [Invention Title] 
 VARIANT OF GENUS YARROWIA AND METHOD OF PREPARING FAT 
 USING THE SAME 
 [Technical Field] 
 The present disclosure relates to yeast improvement for enhancement of 
 fat content, and a preparation method thereof, and in particular, a variant strain of 
 the genus Yarrowia, in which activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase (PEMT) or phospholipid methyltransferase is inactivated, and 
 thus a fat content is enhanced, and a method of increasing a fat in the strain by 
 culturing the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia in a medium containing choline. 
 [Background Art] 
 Oleaginous yeasts that produce fatty acid derivatives such as free fatty 
 acids, fatty alcohols, fatty acid ethyl esters, alkanes, etc. have received attention 
 in various fields such as energy, cosmetics, foods, feed, etc., and various studies 
 related thereto have been conducted. Among them, triacylglycerol (TAG), which 
 is a precursor of fatty acid derivatives and is a fatty form available for long-term 
 storage, has been studied for the synthesis of large quantities thereof. 
 As a method of improving TAG contents in oleaginous yeasts, strategies for 
 enhancing TAG biosynthetic pathways (e.g., dga-2, sic1, ac1l-2, acc1, sctl, Irol), 
 inhibiting TAG degradation (e.g., tgll-4, faal, pxal-2), and inhibiting beta oxidation (e.g., pox1-6, mfel, pexl-32, pot1) are mainly used by many researchers (U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013-0344548 Al). 
 In recent years, various strategies have been attempted to improve the fat 
 content in yeasts, but there has been no remarkable increase in the fat content. 
 Accordingly, there is a demand for an alternative to improve the level of fat 
 production while preventing deterioration of yeast growth. 
 [Disclosure] 
 [Technical Problem] 
 The present inventors found that the fat production may be increased by a 
 variant strain, in which activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase 
 or phospholipid methyltransferase is inactivated, thereby completing the present 
 disclosure. 
 [Technical Solution] 
 An object of the present disclosure is to provide a variant strain of the 
 genus Yarrowia, in which activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase (PEMT) or phospholipid methyltransferase is inactivated. 
 Another object of the present disclosure is to provide a cosmetic 
 composition, a food composition, a feed composition, or a medical composition, 
 each including at least one of the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia, a culture of 
 the strain, an extract of the strain, a dry product of the strain, a lysate of the strain, 
 and a fat recovered from at least one of the strain, the culture, the extract, the dry product, and the lysate. 
 Still another object of the present disclosure is to provide a method of 
 increasing a fat in a strain, including: culturing the variant strain of the genus 
 Yarrowia. 
 Still another object of the present disclosure is to provide a method of 
 preparing a fat, the method including: culturing the variant strain of the genus 
 Yarrowia. 
 Still another object of the present disclosure is to provide use of the variant 
 strain of the genus Yarrowia, the culture of the strain, the extract of the strain, the 
 dry product of the strain, the lysate of the strain, the cosmetic composition, the 
 food composition, the feed composition, the medical composition, or the culture of 
 the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia in fat production. 
 [Advantageous Effects] 
 The variant strain of the genus Yarrowia of the present disclosure may 
 increase intracellular fat production by inactivation of activity of 
 phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) or phospholipid 
 methyltransferase. 
 A method of increasing a fat in the strain and a method of preparing a fat of 
 the present disclosure can effectively increase fat production while preventing 
 deterioration of growth of the strain at the same time. 
 A cosmetic composition, a food composition, a feed composition, and a 
 medical composition of the present disclosure can provide improved functionality by increasing a fat content. 
 [Best Mode] 
 The present disclosure will be described in detail as follows. Meanwhile, 
 each description and embodiment disclosed in this disclosure may also be applied 
 to other descriptions and embodiments. That is, all combinations of various 
 elements disclosed in this disclosure fall within the scope of the present disclosure. 
 Further, the scope of the present disclosure is not limited by the specific 
 description described below. 
 Further, those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using 
 no more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific 
 embodiments of the disclosure described herein. Further, these equivalents 
 should be interpreted to fall within the present disclosure. 
 To achieve the above objects, one aspect of the present disclosure 
 provides a variant strain of the genus Yarrowia, in which activity of 
 phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase or phospholipid methyltransferase 
 is inactivated. 
 As used herein, the "phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase 
 (PEMT)" is a transferase enzyme that converts phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) to 
 phosphatidylcholine (PC). Phosphatidycholine produced via PEMT may be 
 utilized in choline synthesis, membrane structure, and VLDL secretion to play a 
 wide range of physiological roles. In the present disclosure, the phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase may be used interchangeably with 
 PEMT. In the present disclosure, the phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase may be encoded by cho2 gene. 
 As used herein, the "phospholipid methyltransferase" is an enzyme that 
 catalyzes a methylation reaction of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), and may play 
 a role in synthesizing phosphatidycholine (PC). In the present disclosure, the 
 phospholipid methyltransferase may be encoded by opi3 gene. 
 The inactivation of the activity of the phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase or phospholipid methyltransferase of the present disclosure 
 means inactivation of activity of one of the two enzymes or inactivation of a 
 combination thereof. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, the variant strain of 
 the genus Yarrowia, in which activity of one of the two enzymes is inactivated or 
 activities of both of them are inactivated, may have the increased fat content in 
 the strain, as compared with the wild-type, but is not limited thereto. 
 Sequences of the "phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase" or "phospholipid methyltransferase" may be obtained from a public database, and 
 examples of the public database may include GenBank of the NCBI, etc. For 
 example, it may be phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase and/or 
 phospholipid methyltransferase derived from the genus Yarrowia (Yarrowia sp.), 
 and specifically, the phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase may include 
 an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, and the phospholipid methyltransferase may include an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12, but is not limited thereto. The polypeptide including the amino acid sequence of SEQ 
 ID NO: 2 may be used interchangeably with a polypeptide having the amino acid 
 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a polypeptide consisting of the amino acid 
 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, and the polypeptide including the amino acid 
 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12 may be used interchangeably with a polypeptide 
 having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12 or a polypeptide consisting of 
 the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12. Further, any polypeptide sequence 
 may also be included, as long as it has the same activity as the above amino acid 
 sequence. 
 Further, the polypeptide may include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID 
 NO: 2 of the phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase and/or the amino 
 acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12 of the phospholipid methyltransferase, or an 
 amino acid sequence having 30% or more homology or identity thereto, but is not 
 limited thereto. Specifically, the polypeptide may include an amino acid 
 sequence having at least 30%, 60%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 
 99% or more homology or identity to SEQ ID NO: 2 of the 
 phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase and/or SEQ ID NO: 12 of the 
 phospholipid methyltransferase. Additionally, it is obvious that any polypeptide 
 having an amino acid sequence with deletion, modification, substitution, or 
 addition in part of the sequence may also be included within the scope of the 
 present disclosure, as long as the amino acid sequence has homology or identity 
 described above and exhibits efficacy corresponding to that of the polypeptide. 
 In other words, although described as "a protein or polypeptide consisting 
 of an amino acid sequence of a specific SEQ ID NO" in the present disclosure, it 
 is obvious that any polypeptide having an amino acid sequence with deletion, 
 modification, substitution, or addition in part of the sequence may also be used in 
 the present disclosure, as long as the polypeptide may have an activity identical 
 or corresponding to that of a polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of 
 the corresponding SEQ ID NO. For example, it is obvious that any polypeptide 
 may belong to the "polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID 
 NO: 2", as long as it has an activity identical or corresponding to that of the "polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2". 
 In the present disclosure, genes encoding the phosphatidylethanolamine 
 N-methyltransferase and the phospholipid methyltransferase may be cho2 and 
 opi3 genes, respectively. Polynucleotide sequences encoding the amino acids of 
 the present disclosure may be polynucleotide sequence(s) of SEQ ID NO: 1 
 and/or SEQ ID NO: 11 encoding the phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase and/or the phospholipid methyltransferase, but are not limited 
 thereto. Further, the polynucleotide sequences may include any sequence 
 without limitation, as long as it has the same activity as that of the polynucleotide 
 sequence. The cho2 gene may be a nucleotide sequence encoding the amino 
 acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, and more specifically, may be a sequence 
 including the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, but is not limited thereto. 
 The sequence including the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and the 
 polynucleotide including the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 may be used interchangeably with a polynucleotide having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID 
 NO: 1, a polynucleotide consisting of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, 
 and a gene consisting of the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 The opi3 gene may be a nucleotide sequence encoding the amino acid 
 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12, and more specifically, may be a sequence including 
 a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11, but is not limited thereto. The 
 sequence including the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11 and the 
 polynucleotide including the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11 may be used 
 interchangeably with a polynucleotide having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID 
 NO: 11, a polynucleotide consisting of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11, 
 and a gene consisting of the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11. 
 As used herein, the term "polynucleotide", which refers to a long-chain 
 polymer of nucleotides formed by linking nucleotide monomers via covalent bonds, 
 has a meaning collectively including DNA or RNA molecules. Nucleotides, which 
 are the basic structural units of polynucleotides, include not only natural 
 nucleotides but also modified analogs thereof in which sugar or base moieties are 
 modified (see Scheit, Nucleotide Analogs, John Wiley, New York (1980); Uhlman 
 and Peyman, Chemical Reviews, 90:543-584 (1990)). 
 The polynucleotide may include a polynucleotide encoding the 
 phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase and/or the phospholipid 
 methyltransferase polypeptide of the present disclosure or a polynucleotide 
 sequence having at least 30%, 60%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 
 99% or more homology or identity to the phosphatidylethanolamine N methyltransferase and/or phospholipid methyltransferase polypeptide of the present disclosure. Additionally, it is obvious that any polynucleotide sequence with deletion, modification, substitution, or addition in part of the sequence may also be included within the scope of the present disclosure, as long as the polynucleotide sequence has this homology or identity and encodes the polypeptide. 
 Additionally, it is apparent that due to codon degeneracy, a polynucleotide 
 which may be translated into a polypeptide including the amino acid sequence of 
 SEQ ID NOs: 2 and/or 12 or a polypeptide including an amino acid sequence 
 having 30% or more identity to SEQ ID NOs: 2 and/or 12 or a polypeptide having 
 homology or identity thereto may also be included. Alternatively, a probe which 
 may be prepared from a known gene sequence, for example, any polynucleotide 
 sequence which hybridizes with a sequence complementary to all or a part of the 
 polynucleotide sequence under stringent conditions to encode a polypeptide 
 including an amino acid sequence having 30% or more identity to the amino acid 
 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, may be included without limitation. The "stringent 
 conditions" refer to the conditions which allow the specific hybridization between 
 polynucleotides. Such conditions are specifically disclosed in the literature (e.g., J. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Edition, Cold 
 Spring Harbor Laboratory press, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, 1989; F.M. 
 Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 
 New York). For example, the stringent conditions may include conditions under 
 which genes having high homology or identity, genes having 30% or more, 70% or more, 80% or more, specifically 85% or more, specifically 90% or more, more specifically 95% or more, much more specifically 97% or more, particularly specifically 99% or more homology or identity hybridize with each other, while genes having homology or identity lower than the above homology or identity do not hybridize with each other; or may include ordinary washing conditions of 
 Southern hybridization, i.e., washing once, specifically twice or three times, at a 
 salt concentration and a temperature corresponding to 600 C, 1XSSC, 0.1% SDS, 
 specifically 600C, .1XSSC, 0.1% SDS, and more specifically 68C, 0.1XSSC, 0.1% SSD. 
 Hybridization requires that two polynucleotides have complementary 
 sequences, although mismatches between bases are possible depending on 
 stringency of the hybridization. The term "complementary" is used to describe a 
 relationship between nucleotide bases that may hybridize with each other. For 
 example, with respect to DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine, and 
 cytosine is complementary to guanine. Therefore, the present disclosure may 
 also include an isolated polynucleotide fragment complementary to the entire 
 sequence as well as a polynucleotide sequence substantially similar thereto. 
 Specifically, a polynucleotide having homology or identity may be detected 
 using hybridization conditions including a hybridization step at a Tm value of 550 C 
 under the above-described conditions. Additionally, the Tm value may be 600 C, 63°C, or 650C, but is not limited thereto, and may be appropriately controlled by 
 those skilled in the art depending on the purpose thereof. 
 The appropriate stringency for hybridizing polynucleotides depends on the length and degree of complementarity of the polynucleotides, and these variables are well known in the art (e.g., J. Sambrook et al., supra). 
 As used herein, the term "homology" or "identity" refers to the degree of 
 relevance between two given amino acid sequences or nucleotide sequences, 
 and may be expressed as a percentage. The terms "homology" and "identity" 
 are often used interchangeably with each other. 
 The sequence homology or identity of conserved polynucleotides or 
 polypeptides may be determined by standard alignment algorithms and may be 
 used together with a default gap penalty established by the program being used. 
 Substantially, homologous or identical sequences are generally expected to 
 hybridize to all or at least about 50%, about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, or about 
 % or more of the entire length of the sequences under moderate or highly 
 stringent conditions. Polynucleotides that contain degenerate codons instead of 
 codons in the hybridizing polynucleotides are also considered. 
 Whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have homology, 
 similarity, or identity may be determined by a known computer algorithm such as 
 the "FASTA" program using default parameters as in Pearson et al. (1988) Proc. 
 Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85:2444. Alternatively, it may be determined by the 
 Needleman-Wunsch algorithm (Needleman and Wunsch, 1970, J. Mol. Biol. 
 48:443-453), which is performed using the Needleman program of the EMBOSS 
 package ("EMBOSS: The European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite", 
 Rice et al., 2000, Trends Genet. 16:276-277) (version 5.0.0 or later) (GCG program package (Devereux, J. et al., Nucleic Acids Research 12:387 (1984)), 
 BLASTP, BLASTN, FASTA (Atschul, S. F. et al., J MOLEC BOL 215:403 (1990); 
 Guide to Huge Computers, Martin J. Bishop, ed., Academic Press, San Diego, 
 1994; and CARILLO et al. (1988) SIAM J Applied Math 48:1073). For example, homology, similarity, or identity may be determined using BLAST or ClustalW of 
 the National Center for Biotechnology Information. 
 The homology, similarity, or identity of polynucleotides or polypeptides may 
 be determined by comparing sequence information using, for example, the GAP 
 computer program, such as Needleman et al. (1970), J Mol Biol. 48:443, as 
 disclosed in Smith and Waterman, Adv. Appl. Math (1981) 2:482. In summary, the GAP program defines it as the value obtained by dividing the number of 
 similarly aligned symbols (i.e., nucleotides or amino acids) by the total number of 
 the symbols in the shorter of the two sequences. Default parameters for the 
 GAP program may include (1) a unary comparison matrix (containing a value of 1 
 for identities and 0 for non-identities) and the weighted comparison matrix (or 
 EDNAFULL (EMBOSS version of NCBI NUC4.4) substitution matrix) of Gribskov 
 et al. (1986) Nucl. Acids Res. 14:6745, as disclosed in Schwartz and Dayhoff, 
 eds., Atlas Of Protein Sequence And Structure, National Biomedical Research 
 Foundation, pp. 353-358 (1979); (2) a penalty of 3.0 for each gap and an 
 additional 0.10 penalty for each symbol in each gap (or a gap opening penalty of 
 and a gap extension penalty of 0.5); and (3) no penalty for end gaps. 
 Accordingly, as used herein, the term "homology" or "identity" refers to the 
 relatedness between sequences. 
 The "inactivation" of the activity of the polypeptide or protein of the present 
 disclosure refers to a case where the polypeptide or protein is not in any way 
 expressed or a case where the polypeptide or protein is expressed but exhibits no 
 activity or reduced activity, as compared with a natural wild-type strain, a parent 
 strain, or a strain in which the corresponding polypeptide or protein is not modified. 
 The inactivation or attenuation may be used interchangeably with the terms "attenuation", "down-regulation", "decrease", "reduce", etc. In this regard, the 
 inactivation is a concept that includes a case where the activity of a polypeptide 
 itself is reduced or eliminated, as compared with the activity of the polypeptide 
 originally possessed by a microorganism, due to a modification in the gene 
 encoding the polypeptide, a modification in an expression regulatory sequence, 
 deletion of a part or the entirety of the gene, etc.; a case where the level of overall 
 polypeptide activity within a cell is reduced, as compared with the wild-type strain 
 or the strain before modification, due to inhibition of expression of the gene 
 encoding the polypeptide, or inhibition of translation, etc.; a case where the gene 
 is not in any way expressed; or a case where the gene is expressed but exhibits 
 no activity; and a combination thereof. 
 In the present disclosure, the inactivation is not limited thereto, and may be 
 achieved by applying various methods well known in the art (Nakashima N. et al., 
 "Bacterial cellular engineering by genome editing and gene silencing". /nt J Mol 
 Sci. 2014; 15(2):2773-2793, Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning 2012, etc.). 
 Examples of the methods include a method of deleting a part or the entirety of a gene encoding the polypeptide on a chromosome; a method of replacing the gene encoding the polypeptide on the chromosome with a gene that is modified to reduce the activity of the enzyme; a method of introducing a modification into an expression regulatory sequence of the gene encoding the polypeptide on the chromosome; a method of replacing the expression regulatory sequence of the gene encoding the polypeptide with a sequence having a weak activity or no activity (e.g., a method of replacing a promoter of the gene with a promoter weaker than an endogenous promoter); a method of deleting a part or the entirety of the gene encoding the polypeptide on the chromosome; a method of introducing an antisense oligonucleotide (e.g., antisense RNA), which inhibits translation from an mRNA into the protein or polypeptide via complementary binding to a transcript of the gene encoding the polypeptide on the chromosome; a method of making the attachment of a ribosome impossible by forming a secondary structure by artificially adding a complementary sequence to the SD sequence on the front end of the SD sequence of the gene encoding the polypeptide; and a reverse transcription engineering (RTE) method, which adds a promoter for reverse transcription to the 3' terminal of the open reading frame 
 (ORF) of the polynucleotide sequence of the gene encoding the polypeptide; or a 
 combination thereof, but are not particularly limited thereto. 
 Specifically, the method of deleting a part or the entirety of the gene 
 encoding the protein or polypeptide may be performed by replacing the 
 polynucleotide encoding the endogenous target protein within the chromosome 
 with a polynucleotide or a marker gene having a partially deleted nucleic acid sequence via a vector for chromosomal insertion into microorganisms. For example, a method of deleting a gene by homologous recombination may be used, but the method is not limited thereto. Further, the term "part", as used herein, may specifically refer to 1 to 300 nucleotides, more specifically 1 to 100 nucleotides, and even more specifically 1 to 50 nucleotides, although it may vary depending on the kinds of polynucleotide, and this may be appropriately decided by those skilled in the art. However, the part is not particularly limited thereto. 
 The method of deleting a part or the entirety of the gene may be performed 
 by inducing a mutation using light such as ultraviolet rays or chemical substances, 
 and selecting a strain, in which the target gene is deleted, from the obtained 
 mutants. The method of deleting the gene includes a method using DNA 
 recombination technology. The DNA recombination technology may be 
 accomplished by, for example, injecting a nucleotide sequence or vector including 
 a nucleotide sequence having homology to a target gene into the microorganism 
 to cause homologous recombination. In addition, the injected nucleotide 
 sequence or vector may include a dominant selection marker, but is not limited 
 thereto. 
 In addition, the method of modifying an expression regulatory sequence 
 may be performed by inducing a modification in the expression regulatory 
 sequence through deletion, insertion, conservative or non-conservative 
 substitution, or a combination thereof so as to further weaken the activity of the 
 expression regulatory sequence or by replacing the sequence with a nucleic acid 
 sequence having a weaker activity. The expression regulatory sequence may include a promoter, an operator sequence, a sequence encoding a ribosome binding domain, and a sequence for regulating the termination of transcription and translation, but is not limited thereto. 
 Furthermore, the method of modifying the gene sequence on the 
 chromosome may be performed by inducing a modification in the sequence 
 through deletion, insertion, conservative or non-conservative substitution, or a 
 combination thereof so as to further weaken the activity of the polypeptide; or by 
 replacing the sequence with a gene sequence modified to have a weaker activity 
 or a gene sequence modified to have no activity at all, but is not limited thereto. 
 However, the above description is only an example, and the method is not 
 limited thereto, and the microorganism may be a microorganism in which 
 expression of genes encoding enzymes of various known biosynthetic pathways 
 that increase fat content is promoted, enzymes of related pathways are 
 inactivated, or an enzyme in a pathway that consumes an intermediate, cofactor, 
 or energy source in the fat biosynthetic pathways is inactivated. The 
 microorganism with the increased fat content may be prepared by applying 
 various known methods. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, the microorganism of 
 the present disclosure may be any microorganism, as long as it is a 
 microorganism in which the activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase (PEMT) or phospholipid methyltransferase is inactivated and 
 the fat content increased, as compared with the non-modified microorganism or 
 the wild-type. 
 As used herein, the term "non-modified microorganism" may refer to a 
 native strain itself or a microorganism in which the activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase or phospholipid methyltransferase 
 is not reduced or inactivated, but is not limited thereto. The "non-modified 
 microorganism" may be used interchangeably with "a strain before modification", 'a microorganism before modification", "a non-variant strain", "a non-modified 
 strain", "a non-variant microorganism", "a non-modified microorganism", or "a 
 reference microorganism". 
 As used herein, the "wild-type" refers to a universal phenotype originally 
 possessed when a new variant is observed in a species due to mutation in the 
 genotype. 
 The wild-type strain of the present disclosure may be a strain of the genus 
 Yarrowia. The "genus Yarrowia" is a fungal genus in the family Dipodascaceae. 
 The genus is a yeast capable of utilizing unusual carbon sources, such as 
 hydrocarbons, and may be monotypic. The strain of the genus Yarrowia may be 
 specifically Yarrowia bubula, Yarrowia deformans, Yarrowia lipolytica, Yarrowia 
 porcina, Yarrowia yakushimensis, and more specifically Yarrowia lipolytica, but is 
 not limited thereto. 
 The "variant strain" of the present disclosure refers to a strain having a new 
 phenotype, when a new variant is observed in a microbial strain due to mutation in 
 the genotype. 
 The "variant strain of the genus Yarrowia" of the present disclosure may be 
 a strain of the genus Yarrowia, in which the activity of phosphatidylethanolamine 
 N-methyltransferase is inactivated, the activity of phospholipid methyltransferase 
 is inactivated, or the activities of phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase 
 and phospholipid methyltransferase are inactivated. 
 Further, it may be a strain of the genus Yarrowia, in which the cho2 gene 
 encoding phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, the opi3 gene encoding 
 phospholipid methyltransferase, or a combination thereof is deleted, but is not 
 limited thereto. 
 Specifically, with respect to the objects of the present disclosure, the variant 
 strain of the genus Yarrowia is not limited, as long as it is a variant strain in which 
 the activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase or phospholipid 
 methyltransferase is inactivated, and thus the fat content in the strain is increased, 
 as compared with the wild-type. 
 As used herein, the "microorganism having the increased fat content, as 
 compared with the wild-type" may be used interchangeably with "a fat-producing 
 microorganism", "a microorganism having ability to produce a fat", "a 
 microorganism for fat production", "a triacylglycerol (TAG)-producing 
 microorganism", "a microorganism having ability to produce triacylglycerol (TAG)", 
 or "a microorganism for triacylglycerol (TAG) production". 
 The variant strain of the genus Yarrowia may be a choline auxotrophic 
 strain provided with choline auxotrophy. The "choline" is colorless and strongly alkaline, and is a component of phospholipids, acetyl choline, B vitamins, etc. It is synthesized from the route of choline synthesis via serine and ethanolamine in living organisms, and is also chemically synthesized with trimethylamine and ethylene oxide. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, when the strain, 
 which is a choline auxotrophic strain, is cultured in a medium containing choline, it 
 is possible to recover the growth of the strain, and at the same time, to increase 
 the fat content in the strain. 
 As used herein, the term "fat", which is a kind of lipid, is an ester in which 
 three fatty acids are bound with one glycerol, and is a representative organic 
 substance. Fat is contained in living organisms and may be used as an energy 
 source. Specifically, the fat may be triacylglycerol (TAG), but is not limited 
 thereto. 
 The "triacylglycerol (TAG)", which is a kind of fat, is a triglyceride having a 
 structure in which three fatty acid molecules are bonded to one glycerin molecule 
 via an ester linkage. In order to increase the TAG content, a strategy for 
 enhancing the TAG biosynthetic pathway, inhibiting TAG degradation, or inhibiting 
 beta-oxidation may be used. The term "fat" may be used interchangeably with 
 "TAG" or "triacylglycerol". In addition, TAG may be a precursor of fatty acid 
 derivatives and a form of fat that may be stored for a long time. 
 Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a cosmetic composition, a food composition, a feed composition, or a medical composition, each including at least one of the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia of the present disclosure; a culture of the strain; an extract of the strain; a dry product of the strain; a lysate of the strain; and a fat recovered from at least one of the strain, the culture, the extract, the dry product, and the lysate. 
 The "genus Yarrowia" and the "variant strain of the genus Yarrowia" of the 
 present disclosure are the same as described above. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, the composition may 
 include the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia itself, in which the activity of 
 phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase or phospholipid methyltransferase 
 is inactivated, and thus the fat content in the strain is increased, as compared with 
 the wild-type, and may include the culture, dry product, extract, or lysate of the 
 strain. In addition, the composition may include a fat recovered from any one of 
 the strain of the present disclosure, the culture, the dry product, the extract, or the 
 lysate of the strain. However, the composition may include any form without 
 limitation, as long as it is able to increase the desired TAG content within the 
 scope of the present disclosure. 
 The "cosmetic composition" of the present disclosure may be formulated 
 into a preparation selected from the group consisting of a solution, an ointment for 
 external use, a cream, a foam, a nutrient lotion, a softening lotion, a pack, a 
 softening water, an emulsion, a makeup base, an essence, a soap, a liquid 
 cleaner, a bath product, a sunscreen cream, a sun oil, a suspension, an emulsion, a paste, a gel, a lotion, a powder, a surfactant-containing cleansing oil, a powder foundation, an emulsion foundation, a wax foundation, a patch, and a spray, but is not limited thereto. 
 The cosmetic composition may further include one or more cosmetically 
 acceptable carrier which are blended in general skin cosmetics, and as a common 
 component, for example, oil, water, a surfactant, a moisturizer, a lower alcohol, a 
 thickener, a chelating agent, a pigment, a preservative, a fragrance, etc. may be 
 appropriately blended, but the carrier is not limited thereto. The cosmetically 
 acceptable carrier to be included in the cosmetic composition of the present 
 disclosure varies depending on the formulation of the cosmetic composition. 
 The cosmetic composition of the present disclosure may include at least 
 one of the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia; the culture of the strain; the extract 
 of the strain; the dry product of the strain; the lysate of the strain; and a fat 
 recovered from at least one of the strain, the culture, the extract, the dry product, 
 and the lysate, and thus may include the increased fat content. 
 The "food composition" of the present disclosure includes all forms such as 
 a functional food, a nutritional supplement, a health food, a food additive, etc., and 
 the above kinds of the food composition may be prepared into various forms 
 according to a common method known in the art. 
 The food composition of the present disclosure may include forms of pills, 
 powders, granules, infusions, tablets, capsules, liquids, etc., and examples of the 
 foods to which the composition of the present disclosure is added include various 
 foods, such as beverages, gums, teas, vitamin complexes, health supplement foods, etc. 
 The food composition of the present disclosure may include other 
 additional ingredients such as various herbal medicinal extracts, food supplement 
 additives, or natural carbohydrates, etc., as in common foods. In addition, the 
 food supplement additives may include food additives commonly used in the art, 
 for example, a fragrance agent, a flavoring agent, a coloring agent, a filler, a 
 stabilizer, etc. 
 Examples of the natural carbohydrate include common sugars, such as 
 monosaccharides, e.g., glucose, fructose, etc.; disaccharides, e.g., maltose, 
 sucrose, etc.; polysaccharides, e.g., dextrin, cyclodextrin, etc.; and sugar alcohols 
 such as xylitol, sorbitol, erythritol, etc. Also, as a fragrance agent, a natural 
 fragrance agent (e.g., rebaudioside A, glycyrrhizin, etc.) and a synthetic fragrance 
 agent (saccharine, aspartame, etc.) may be advantageously used. 
 In addition, the food composition of the present disclosure may include 
 various nutrients, vitamins, minerals (electrolytes), a flavor agent such as a 
 synthetic flavor agent, a natural flavor agent, etc., a coloring agent, an extender 
 (cheese, chocolate, etc.), pectic acid and salts thereof, alginic acid and salts 
 thereof, organic acid, a protective colloid thickener, a PH adjuster, a stabilizer, a 
 preservative, glycerin, alcohol, a carbonating agent used for a carbonated drink, 
 etc. In addition, the functional food composition of the present disclosure may 
 include flesh that may be used for preparing natural fruit juice, fruit juice drinks, 
 and vegetable drinks. Such components may be used independently or in 
 combination. 
 The food composition of the present disclosure may be prepared by adding 
 raw materials and ingredients commonly added in the art during the preparation. 
 Additionally, the formulations of the food may be prepared without limitation as 
 long as it may be acknowledged as a food. The food composition of the present 
 disclosure may be prepared into various types of formulations. Unlike general 
 drugs, the food composition of the present disclosure has advantages in that there 
 are no side effects caused by long-term administration, etc., because the food 
 composition employs a food as a raw material, and the food composition of the 
 present disclosure has excellent portability, and thus the food of the present 
 disclosure may be consumed as a supplement. 
 The food composition of the present disclosure may include at least one of 
 the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia; the culture of the strain; the extract of the 
 strain; the dry product of the strain; the lysate of the strain; and a fat recovered 
 from at least one of the strain, the culture, the extract, the dry product, and the 
 lysate, and thus may include an increased fat content. 
 The "feed composition" of the present disclosure refers to any natural or 
 artificial diet, meal, etc., or components of such meals intended or suitable for 
 being eaten, taken in, or digested by animals. The feed composition may be 
 prepared into various types of feeds known in the art, and specifically, may include 
 concentrated feeds, bulky feeds, and/or specialized feeds. 
 A kind of the feed is not particularly limited, and any feed generally used in 
 the art may be used. Non-limiting examples of the feed may include plant-based 
 feeds, such as grains, nuts, food by-products, seaweeds, fibers, drug by-products, fats and oils, starches, gourds, grain by-products, etc.; and animal-based feeds such as proteins, inorganic matters, fats and oils, minerals, single cell proteins, zooplanktons, foods, etc. These may be used alone or in a mixture of two or more thereof. 
 The feed composition of the present disclosure may include at least one of 
 the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia; the culture of the strain; the extract of the 
 strain; the dry product of the strain; the lysate of the strain; and a fat recovered 
 from at least one of the strain, the culture, the extract, the dry product, and the 
 lysate, and thus may include an increased fat content. 
 The "medical composition" of the present disclosure refers to those 
 prepared for the purpose of preventing or treating a disease, and may be used 
 after being respectively formulated into various forms according to a common 
 method. For example, the medical composition may be formulated into oral 
 dosage forms such as powders, granules, tablets, capsules, suspensions, 
 emulsions, syrups, etc., and may be formulated in the form of preparations for 
 external use, suppositories, and sterile injectable solutions. 
 In addition, the medical composition may be prepared by further including 
 pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as buffers, preservatives, analgesics, 
 solubilizers, isotonic agents, stabilizers, bases, excipients, lubricants, etc. known 
 in the art, according to each formulation. 
 Meanwhile, the medical composition of the present disclosure is 
 administered in a pharmaceutically effective amount. As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically effective amount" means an amount which is sufficient to treat diseases at a reasonable benefit/risk ratio applicable to any medical treatment and does not cause any adverse effect. The effective dosage level may be determined by those skilled in the art, depending on factors, including a patient's health conditions, severity, drug activity, drug sensitivity, administration method, administration time, administration route, excretion rate, duration of treatment, drugs used in combination or used concurrently, and other factors well known in the medical field. 
 The medical composition of the present disclosure may include at least one 
 of the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia; the culture of the strain; the extract of 
 the strain; the dry product of the strain; the lysate of the strain; and a fat recovered 
 from at least one of the strain, the culture, the extract, the dry product, and the 
 lysate, and thus may include an increased fat content. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, the increased fat 
 content in the strain may be an increased TAG content, but is not limited thereto. 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method of 
 increasing a fat in a strain, including: culturing the variant strain of the genus 
 Yarrowia of the present disclosure. 
 The "genus Yarrowia", the "variant strain of the genus Yarrowia", and the 
 "fat" are the same as described above. 
 As used herein, the "culturing" refers to growing the variant strain of the 
 genus Yarrowia under appropriately controlled environmental conditions. The 
 culturing process of the present disclosure may be achieved according to an appropriate medium and culture conditions known in the art. Such a culturing process may be used by easy adjustment of the conditions by those skilled in the art according to the strain being selected. 
 The culturing the strain may be, but is not particularly limited to, performed 
 in a batch process, a continuous process, a fed-batch process, etc. known in the 
 art. In this regard, with respect to the culturing conditions, pH may be adjusted to 
 a suitable pH (e.g., pH 5 to 9, specifically pH 6 to 8, and most specifically pH 6.8) 
 using a basic compound (e.g., sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, or 
 ammonia) or an acidic compound (e.g., phosphoric acid or sulfuric acid), but is not 
 particularly limited thereto. Additionally, aerobic conditions may be maintained by 
 introducing oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas mixture to the culture. The 
 culturing temperature may be maintained at 20 0C to 450C, and specifically 250C to 
 0C for about 10 hours to 160 hours, but is not limited thereto. 
 As used herein, the "medium" refers to a culture medium which includes a 
 substance obtained by mixing nutrients required for culturing the variant strain of 
 the genus Yarrowia as a main component, and/or a product obtained after 
 culturing. The medium and other culture conditions used in culturing the 
 microorganism of the present disclosure are not particularly limited, as long as the 
 medium is a medium commonly used in culturing the microorganism, but the 
 microorganism of the present disclosure may be cultured in a common medium 
 containing appropriate carbon sources, nitrogen sources, phosphorous sources, 
 inorganic compounds, amino acids and/or vitamins, etc., under aerobic conditions 
 while adjusting temperature, pH, etc. 
 As a carbon source for the culture medium used in the present disclosure, 
 sugars and carbohydrates (e.g., glucose, sucrose, lactose, fructose, galactose, 
 mannose, maltose, arabinose, xylose, molasses, starch, and cellulose), oils and 
 fats (e.g., soybean oil, sunflower seed oil, peanut oil, and coconut oil), fatty acids 
 (e.g., palmitic acid, stearic acid, and linoleic acid), alcohols (e.g., glycerol and 
 ethanol), organic acids (e.g., acetic acid), etc. may be used alone or in 
 combination. Specifically, the carbon source may be one or more selected from 
 the group consisting of glucose, fructose, maltose, galactose, mannose, sucrose, 
 arabinose, xylose, and glycerol, but is not limited thereto. Further, the culture 
 medium used in the present disclosure may include, as the carbon source, 
 glucose at a concentration of 10 g/L to 50 g/L, 10 g/L to 40 g/L, 20 g/L to 50 g/L, 
 g/L to 40 g/L, or 25 g/L to 35 g/L, but is not limited thereto. 
 A nitrogen source for the culture medium used in the present disclosure 
 may be classified into an organic nitrogen source or an inorganic nitrogen source, 
 but the organic nitrogen source or the inorganic nitrogen source may be used 
 alone or in a mixture. Specifically, the nitrogen source may be an organic 
 nitrogen source selected from the group consisting of a yeast extract, a beef 
 extract, peptone, and tryptone, or an inorganic nitrogen source selected from the 
 group consisting of ammonium acetate, ammonium nitrate, ammonium chloride, 
 ammonium sulfate, sodium nitrate, urea, and monosodium glutamate (MSG). 
 Further, in the culture medium used in the present disclosure, examples of the 
 nitrogen source may include a yeast extract, ammonium sulfate, sodium nitrate, 
 and MSG, but are not limited thereto. 
 The yeast extract may be included in the culture medium at a concentration 
 of 0.1 g/L to 10 g/L, 0.5 g/L to 10 g/L, 0.5 g/L to 7 g/L, 0.5 g/L to 5 g/L, 0.5 g/L to 
 3 g/L, 0.5 g/L to 2 g/L, or 0.5 g/L to 1.5 g/L, the ammonium sulfate may be 
 included in the culture medium at a concentration of 1 g/L to 5 g/L, 1 g/L to 4 g/L, 
 2 g/L to 5 g/L, or 2 g/L to 4 g/L, the sodium nitrate may be included in the culture 
 medium at a concentration of 0.1 g/L to 10 g/L, 0.5 g/L to 9 g/L, 1 g/L to 9 g/L, 
 2 g/L to 9 g/L, 3 g/L to 9 g/L, 5 g/L to 9 g/L, or 7 g/L to 9 g/L, and the MSG may be 
 included in the culture medium at a concentration of 0.1 g/L to 2 g/L, 0.1 g/L to 
 1.5 g/L, 0.5 g/L to 2 g/L, or 0.5 g/L to 1.5 g/L, but these are not limited thereto. 
 The culturing the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia of the present 
 disclosure may be culturing the strain in a medium containing choline. 
 Specifically, a concentration of choline in the medium containing choline of the 
 present disclosure may be 0.05 mM to 5 mM, 0.1 mM to 5 mM, 0.1 mM to 3 mM, 
 0.1 mM to 2 mM, or 0.1 mM to 1 mM, but is not limited thereto. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, when the strain, 
 which is a choline auxotrophic strain, is cultured in a medium containing choline, it 
 is possible to recover the growth of the strain, and at the same time, to increase 
 the fat content in the strain. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, the medium may have 
 an optimal C/N ratio in order to increase the fat content in the strain. 
 As used herein, the "C/N ratio (carbon-to-nitrogen ratio; C:N ratio)" refers to 
 a ratio of the mass of carbon to the mass of nitrogen in a medium. As the ratio increases, the nitrogen source in the medium may decrease, and accordingly, the cell concentration may decrease due to growth inhibition. 
 As the C/N ratio in the medium of the present disclosure increases, OD 
 value may decrease, and the intracellular fat content may increase. Thus, for the 
 maximum productivity of fat, a preferred C/N ratio in the medium is important. 
 The C/N ratio showing the maximum fat productivity in the strain of the 
 present disclosure may be calculated by OD * fat content value, and the C/N ratio 
 in the medium may be 10 to 120, specifically 30 to 90, more specifically 40 to 80, 
 and much more specifically 50 to 70, but is not limited thereto. 
 The preferred C/N ratio in the medium may effectively increase the 
 productivity of fat while preventing the growth inhibition of the strain of the present 
 disclosure. 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method of 
 preparing a fat, including: culturing the variant strain of the genus Yarrowia of the 
 present disclosure, in which activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase (PEMT) or phospholipid methyltransferase is inactivated. 
 The "genus Yarrowia", the "variant strain of the genus Yarrowia", the "culturing", and the "fat" of the present disclosure are the same as described 
 above. 
 The culturing the strain may be culturing the strain in a medium containing 
 choline. 
 The concentration of choline in the medium containing choline of the present disclosure may be 0.05 mM to 5 mM, 0.1 mM to 5 mM, 0.1 mM to 3 mM, 
 0.1 mM to 2 mM, or 0.1 mM to 1 mM. 
 The C/N ratio in the medium may be 10 to 120, specifically 30 to 90, more 
 specifically 40 to 80, and much more specifically 50 to 70, but is not limited 
 thereto. 
 With respect to the objects of the present disclosure, when the strain, 
 which is a choline auxotrophic strain, is cultured in a medium containing choline, it 
 is possible to recover the growth of the strain, and at the same time, to increase 
 the fat content in the strain, and thus it is easy to prepare the fat. 
 The method of preparing a fat of the present disclosure may further include 
 preparing the microorganism of the present disclosure, preparing a medium for 
 culturing the strain, or a combination thereof (in any order), for example, prior to 
 the culturing. 
 The method of preparing a fat of the present disclosure may further include 
 recovering the fat from the strain, the culture thereof, the extract thereof, the dry 
 product thereof, or the lysate thereof, after culturing the variant strain of the genus 
 Yarrowia. In other words, the fat may be collected from the strain itself or the 
 culture thereof which is produced in the culturing of the present disclosure. For 
 example, centrifugation, filtration, anion-exchange chromatography, crystallization, 
 HPLC, etc. may be used, and the target fat may be recovered from the cultured 
 strain or the culture thereof, the dry product thereof, or the lysate thereof using an 
 appropriate method known in the art. 
 Further, the recovering the fat may further include isolation and/or 
 purification, which may be performed using an appropriate method known in the 
 art. Therefore, the recovered fat may be in a purified form or a microbial 
 fermentation liquid containing the fat. 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides use of the variant 
 strain of the genus Yarrowia, in which the activity of phosphatidylethanolamine N 
 methyltransferase or phospholipid methyltransferase is inactivated; the culture of 
 the strain; the extract of the strain; the dry product of the strain; the lysate of the 
 strain; the cosmetic composition, the food composition, the feed composition, or 
 the medical composition, each including at least one of the strain, the culture, the 
 extract, the dry product, and the lysate, and the fat recovered from at least one of 
 the strain, the culture, the extract, the dry product, and the lysate, in the fat 
 production. 
 The "phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase", the "phospholipid 
 methyltransferase", the "genus Yarrowia", the "variant strain of the genus 
 Yarrowia", the "culturing", the "fat", the "cosmetic composition", the "food 
 composition", the "feed composition", and the "medical composition" of the 
 present disclosure are the same as described above. 
 [Mode for Invention] 
 Hereinafter, the present disclosure will be described in more detail with 
 reference to exemplary embodiments. However, these embodiments are only for more specifically illustrating the present disclosure, and it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the scope of the present disclosure is not limited to these embodiments. 
 Example 1. Preparation of Wild-Type Yeast-Based Deficient Strain 
 To prepare an auxotrophic strain for ethanolamine or choline, a strain was 
 prepared in which a CHO2- or OPl3-encoding gene was deleted, based on a wild 
 type yeast strain, Yarrowia lipolytica POIf (ATCC MYA-2613). 
 1-1. Preparation of cho2-deficient strain ("CC08-0162") 
 To prepare a cassette capable of deleting the cho2 gene on the 
 chromosome of Yarrowia lipolytica, a polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 
 and an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 of cho2 (YALOE06061g) were 
 obtained based on nucleotide sequences registered at KEGG (Kyoto 
 Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes). 
 PCR was performed using a genomic DNA of Yarrowia lipolytica POf as a 
 template and primers of SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4, SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8, and SEQ ID 
 NOs: 9 and 10, respectively. PCR was also performed using a URA3 
 auxotrophic marker as a template and primers of SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6. PCR 
 was performed for 35 cycles under conditions consisting of denaturation at 950 C 
 for 1 minute; annealing at 550 C for 1 minute; and polymerization at 720 C for 1 
 minute and 30 seconds. 
 As a result, 5'UTR of 1,055 bp, 5'UTRRP of 638 bp, 3'UTR of 1050 bp, and URA3 of 1,569 bp were obtained. The DNA fragments amplified by PCR were prepared into one cho2-deficient cassette through overlap extension PCR, and design of the cassette was performed in the order of 5' UTR-URA3-5' 
 UTRRP-3'UTR. 
 The cho2-deficient cassette was transformed into Yarrowia lipolytica PO1f 
 by heat shock and selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. The primary 
 strain thus selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare a cho2 
 gene-deficient strain. The deficient strain thus prepared was designated as 
 CC08-0162 and deposited under the Budapest Treaty in the Korean Culture 
 Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an international depository authority, on 
 February 20, 2020, under Accession No. KCCM12672P. 
 [Table 1] 
 SEQ ID NO: Primer name Sequence (5'-3') 
 3 CHO2_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGAGTCATCCGCAAACACAACAC 
 4 CHO2_5'_Rev GCAATGACGAGTCAGACAGGGGTGTTTGTGGAAGCTGGTG 
 5 CHO2_URAFor CACCAGCTTCCACAAACACCCCTGTCTGACTCGTCATTGC 
 6 CHO2_URARev CGCATTCTGCGTACATTTTGCTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 7 CHO2_5'RPFor CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAGCAAAATGTACGCAGAATGCG 
 8 CHO2_5'RPRev CAGATATGCTCTCTGCAAACGGTGTTTGTGGAAGCTGGTG 
 9 CHO2_3'_For CACCAGCTTCCACAAACACCGTTTGCAGAGAGCATATCTG 
 10 CHO2_3'_Rev GCAGGTCGACTCTAGAGAGAGGTCTGTTCACAACATCGGC 
 1-2. Preparation of opi3-deficient strain ("CC08-0123") 
 To prepare a cassette capable of deleting the opi3 gene on the 
 chromosome of Yarrowia lipolytica, a polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11 
 and an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12 of opi3 (YALOE12441g) were 
 obtained based on nucleotide sequences registered at KEGG (Kyoto 
 Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes). 
 PCR was performed using the genomic DNA of Yarrowia lipolytica POif as 
 a template and primers of SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 14, SEQ ID NOs: 17 and 18, and 
 SEQ ID NOs: 19 and 20, respectively. PCR was also performed using the URA3 
 auxotrophic marker as a template and primers of SEQ ID NOs: 15 and 16. PCR 
 was performed for 35 cycles under conditions consisting of denaturation at 950C 
 for 1 minute; annealing at 550 C for 1 minute; and polymerization at 720 C for 1 
 minute and 30 seconds. 
 As a result, 5' UTR of 980 bp, 5' UTRRP of 730 bp, 3' UTR of 1,001 bp, and URA3 of 1,569 bp were obtained. The DNA fragments amplified by PCR were prepared into one opi3-deficient cassette through overlap extension PCR, and design of the cassette was performed in the order of 5' UTR-URA3-5' 
 UTRRP-3'UTR. 
 The opi3-deficient cassette was transformed into Yarrowia lipolytica PO1f 
 by heat shock and selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. The primary 
 strain thus selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare an opi3 
 gene-deficient strain. The deficient strain thus prepared was designated as 
 CC08-0123 and deposited under the Budapest Treaty at the Korean Culture 
 Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an international depository authority, on 
 February 20, 2020, under Accession No. KCCM12673P. 
 [Table 2] 
 SEQ ID NO: Primer name Sequence (5'-3') 
 13 OP13_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGACACCAACATTCGACATGGAC 
 14 OP13_5'_Rev GCAATGACGAGTCAGACAGGGAGTTTTCCAGAGAGCCAAC 
 15 OP13_URAFor GTTGGCTCTCTGGAAAACTCCCTGTCTGACTCGTCATTGC 
 16 OPI3_URARev CAGTCCTTAATCAACGGTGGCTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 17 OP13_5'RPFor CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAGCCACCGTTGATTAAGGACTG 
 18 OP13_5'RPRev CGTAGGCCGTTTTCTGTTGCGAGTTTTCCAGAGAGCCAAC 
 19 OP13_3'_For GTTGGCTCTCTGGAAAACTCGCAACAGAAAACGGCCTACG 
 20 OP13_3'_Rev GCAGGTCGACTCTAGAGAGTGCCGTCTCGATTGTCACAGG 
 1-3. Preparation of cho2- and opi3-codeficient strain ("CC08-0183") 
 To examine the effect of cho2 and opi3 codeficiency in Yarrowia lipolytica 
 PO1f, a cho2- and opi3-codeficient strain was prepared in the same manner as in 
 Examples 1-1 and 1-2, and the strain, in which the respective genes were deleted 
 in combination, were designated as CC08-0183 and deposited under the 
 Budapest Treaty at the Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an 
 international depository authority, on February 20, 2020, under Accession 
 No. KCCM12671P. 
 Example 2. Evaluation of Growth and Fat Accumulation of Wild-Type 
 Strain-Based Deficient Strains 
 The growth and fat accumulation of the deficient strains CC08-0162, CC08 
 0123, and CC08-0183 prepared in Example 1 were evaluated. 
 2-1. Evaluation according to medium 
 The two kinds of strains and the control group (POf) were seeded in a 
 250 mL corner-baffle flask containing 50 mL of YPD or YLMM1 (Yarrowia lipolytica 
 minimal media 1) at an initial OD of 0.01, and cultured with shaking at 250 rpm 
 and 30°C for 72 hours. In YLMM1, 0.3 mM choline chloride (CL) was added, if 
 necessary. Compositions of the YPD and fat medium 1 (YLMM1) are as follows. 
 <YPD> 
 20 g/L glucose, 10 g/L yeast extract (manufactured by BD, Bacto yeast 
 extract, 0.38% choline in Bacto yeast extract), 0.5 g/L uracil, 20 g/L Bacto peptone 
 <YLMM1 (pH 7.2)> 
 40 g/L glucose, 1.7 g/L yeast nitrogen base without amino acids and 
 ammonium sulfate, 0.5 g/L uracil, and 2.5 g/L ammonium sulfate were dissolved in 
 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2). 
 After the culturing was terminated, the culture medium was centrifuged to 
 discard the supernatant, and cells remaining in the lower layer were dried in a dry 
 oven at 600 C for 24 hours, followed by crude fat extraction. Crude fat extraction 
 was performed according to the feed standard analysis method (feed standard 
 analysis method. 2001. National Livestock Research Institute, Rural Development 
 Administration), and the analyzed OD and the intracellular crude fat content are 
 shown in Table 3 below. The results in Table 3 are the results of experiments performed in triplicate, and the increase in the crude fat content was evaluated by mean values thereof. 
 [Table 3] 
 Medium Strain OD60o Crude fat content [%] 
 Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean 
 YPD POif 60.8 63.2 62.9 62.3 9.7 9.4 9.4 9.5 
 CC08-0162 61.5 60.9 62.7 61.7 11.2 10.7 11.4 11.1 
 CC08-0123 62.5 62.4 61.4 62.1 11.0 10.7 10.7 10.8 
 CC08-0183 61.7 61.5 61.9 61.7 11.1 11.0 11.2 11.1 
 YIMM1 POif 47.2 46.1 47.7 47.0 10.9 11.5 12.4 11.6 
 POlf (w/ CL) 46.6 47.9 47.2 47.2 11.9 11.1 11.5 11.5 
 CC08-0162 10.8 11.9 13.6 12.1 15.0 14.6 15.1 14.9 
 CC08-0162 (w/ CL) 44.4 45.0 48.3 45.9 16.4 16.1 16.4 16.3 
 CC08-0123 18.0 16.6 17.3 17.3 14.2 14.4 14.9 14.5 
 CC08-0123 (w/ CL) 45.7 46.5 46.4 46.2 16.1 15.6 16.3 16.0 
 CC08-0183 12.1 12.1 12.4 12.2 14.9 15.0 15.1 15.0 
 CC08-0183 (w/ CL) 45.8 46.1 45.9 45.9 16.3 16.5 16.2 16.3 
 As shown in Table 3, it was confirmed that the crude fat content was 
 increased regardless of the medium in the strains, in which the cho2 or opi3 gene 
 was individually or simultaneously deleted from the parent strain PO1f. It was 
 also observed that the crude fat content increased when the same strain was 
 cultured in YLMM1 than when cultured in YPD. The increase was about 17% in 
 the cho2-deficient strain and about 14% in the opi3-deficient strain, as compared 
 with PO1f, in the YPD medium. In contrast, the increase was about 28% in the 
 cho2-deficient strain and about 25% in the opi3-deficient strain, as compared with 
 PO1f, in the YLMM1 medium, indicating that the increase of the fat content was 
 larger in YLMM1 than in YPD. In addition, in the strain in which the cho2 and 
 opi3 genes were simultaneously deleted, an increase of the fat content similar to 
 that of the cho2-deficient strain was observed. 
 However, unlike YPD, YLMM1 contained no choline, and thus the pathway 
 to synthesize phosphatidylcholine from phosphatidyl ethanolamine was blocked, 
 and the cho2-deficient strain, the opi3-deficient strain, and the cho2- and opi3 
 codeficient strain provided with choline auxotroph showed growth inhibition in 
 YLMM1. 
 Thus, 0.3 mM choline was added to the medium for growth recovery, and it 
 was confirmed that when choline was added to the medium, the growth of the 
 choline auxotrophic strain was recovered as much as in the control group, and the 
 crude fat content in the strain was also increased by about 10%, as compared 
 with no addition of choline. 
 The growth and fat accumulation of the cho2- and opi3-deficient strains 
 prepared based on Yarrowia lipolytica POf yeast showed a similar tendency to 
 those of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but the strains are different 
 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae in that when choline was added, their growth 
 recovered and the fat content was also increased, which is a characteristic of the 
 oleaginous yeast, Yarrowia lipolytica. 
 2-2. Evaluation of growth and fat accumulation according to C/N ratio 
 When culturing was performed in YLMM1 with a C/N ratio of 30, as 
 compared with YPD with a C/N ratio of less than 1, in Example 2-1, the fat content 
 in the strain was confirmed to increase. Accordingly, the three kinds of strains 
 prepared in Example 1 and the control POif were cultured in CN test media 
 having different C/N ratios, and the growth and fat accumulation were evaluated according to the C/N ratio. Each strain was seeded in a 250 mL corner-baffle flask containing 50 mL of CN test medium, to which different concentrations of ammonium sulfate were added, at an initial OD of 0.01, and cultured with shaking at 250 rpm and 300 C for 72 hours. The composition of the CN test medium according to the C/N ratio is as follows. 
 <CN test medium (pH 7.2)> 
 40 g/L glucose; 1.7 g/L yeast nitrogen base without amino acids and 
 ammonium sulfate; 0.5 g/L uracil; 0.3 mM choline chloride; 2.5 g/L (C/N ratio of 
 ), 1.25 g/L (C/N ratio of 60), 0.83 g/L (C/N ratio of 90), or 0.63 g/L (C/N ratio of 
 120) ammonium sulfate were dissolved in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2). 
 After the culturing was terminated, the culture medium was centrifuged to 
 discard the supernatant, and cells remaining in the lower layer were dried in a dry 
 oven at 600 C for 24 hours, followed by fat extraction. Crude fat extraction was 
 performed according to the feed standard analysis method (feed standard 
 analysis method. 2001. National Livestock Research Institute, Rural Development 
 Administration), and the analyzed OD and the intracellular crude fat content are 
 shown in Table 4 below. The results in Table 4 are the results of experiments 
 performed in triplicate, and the increase in the fat content was evaluated by mean 
 values thereof. 
 [Table 4] 
 C/N ratio Strain OD600 Crude fat content [%] 
 Batch1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean 
 30 POif 47.2 46.1 47.7 47.0 10.9 11.5 12.4 11.6 
 CC08-0162 44.4 45.0 48.3 45.9 16.4 16.1 16.4 16.3 
 CC08-0123 45.7 46.5 46.4 46.2 16.1 15.6 16.3 16.0 
 CC08-0183 46.2 45.9 46.0 46.0 16.1 16.3 16.2 16.2 
 60 POif 44.9 45.5 45.5 45.3 12.8 12.9 13.3 13.0 
 CC08-0162 44.5 44.0 43.8 44.1 18.9 18.4 19.1 18.8 
 CC08-0123 44.9 44.6 45.2 44.9 18.0 18.8 19.3 18.7 
 CC08-0183 43.9 44.2 44.1 44.1 19.2 18.5 18.9 18.9 
 90 POif 33.3 34.1 33.1 33.5 15.5 15.1 15.0 15.2 
 CC08-0162 32.0 31.7 31.1 31.6 22.2 21.8 22.3 22.1 
 CC08-0123 32.6 32.2 32.1 32.3 21.7 21.9 22.4 22.0 
 CC08-0183 31.8 32.1 31.5 31.8 21.9 22.5 22.2 22.2 
 120 POif 23.7 23.9 24.4 24.0 16.7 16.4 16.7 16.6 
 CC08-0162 23.3 23.2 23.7 23.4 24.1 24.6 24.2 24.3 
 CC08-0123 23.8 23.1 23.0 23.3 24.0 24.1 23.6 23.9 
 CC08-0183 23.4 23.6 23.1 23.4 24.3 24.0 24.1 24.1 
 As shown in Table 4, it was confirmed that the fat content was increased 
 regardless of the C/N ratio of the medium in the strains, in which the cho2 or opi3 
 gene was individually or simultaneously deleted from the parent strain PO1f, as in 
 Example 2-1. It was also observed that the increase was at a similar level to be 
 about 43%, regardless of the C/N ratio. 
 However, as the C/N ratio in the medium increased, the nitrogen source 
 decreased and the OD tended to decrease, whereas the intracellular fat content 
 tended to increase. In order to obtain the C/N ratio showing the maximum productivity, the OD * fat content value was calculated. In all strains, when the 
 C/N ratio was 60, the maximum OD * fat content value was observed. Therefore, 
 it was evaluated that the C/N ratio of 60 is the optimal C/N ratio. 
 Example 3. Preparation and Evaluation of Fat-Accumulating SCO023 Based Deficient Strain 
 3-1. Preparation of fat-accumulating strain SCO023 To examine the effect of CHO2- or OP13-encoding gene deletion on a fat 
 accumulating strain, a high fat-producing yeast strain was prepared. 
 To prepare the high fat-producing yeast strain, the TAG degradation 
 pathway was first blocked. The TAG degradation pathway is as follows: TAG is 
 converted into fatty acid (FA) by TGL3 and 4, and the FA is introduced into the 
 peroxisome with the aid of acyl-CoA binding proteins. The introduced FA is 
 acylated by two peroxisomal acyl-CoA Synthases (pxal, 2), and the acylated FA is 
 desaturated by acyl-CoA oxidases (pox1-6) at the vinyl position. In the 
 desaturated FA-CoA ester, the double bond portion is hydrated by multi-function 
 enzyme 2 (MFE2-C domain, mfel), and a 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA intermediate is 
 formed. Here, the A/B domain of the MFE2 enzyme acts to oxidize the 3 
 hydroxyacyl-CoA intermediate to a 3-ketoacyl-CoA intermediate, and the 3 
 ketoacyl-CoA intermediate is cleaved at the alpha carbon by peroxisomal 3 
 oxyacyl-thiolase (pot1) to produce acetyl-CoA and fatty acyl-CoA. FA 
 degradation occurs, as the cycle from the pox reaction to the pot1 reaction is repeated (AIMS Bioengineering2016. 3(4):493-514). 
 Among the genes, pox2 (YAL1OF10857), mfel (YAL10E15378), and pot1 
 (YAL10E18568) were deleted in Yarrowia lipolytica POf to prevent each enzyme 
 from being expressed. In addition, in order to reduce the number of peroxisomes, the place where beta-oxidation occurs, pex10 (YALIOC01023), which is a gene 
 involved in the formation of peroxisomes, was deleted to prevent the enzyme from 
 being expressed (AIMS Bioengineering 2016. 3(4):493-514). Finally, mhyl 
 (YAL10B21582), which is a morphology-related gene, was deleted. If mhyl gene 
 was deleted, the carbon flux into amino acid biosynthesis decreased and the 
 carbon flux into fat biosynthesis increased, thereby increasing the intracellular 
 crude fat content (Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 2018. 1863(1):81-90). 
 To prepare a cassette capable of deleting each gene, a polynucleotide 
 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 21 and an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22 of 
 pox2, a polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23 and an amino acid sequence 
 of SEQ ID NO: 24 of mfel, a polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 25 and an 
 amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 26 of pex1O, a polynucleotide sequence of 
 SEQ ID NO: 27 and an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 28 of pot1, and a 
 polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 29 and an amino acid sequence of SEQ 
 ID NO: 30 of mhyl were obtained based on nucleotide sequences registered at 
 KEGG. 
 Design of each gene-deficient cassette was performed in the order of 
 'UTR-URA3-5'UTRRP-3'UTR, and 5'UTR, 5'UTRRP, and 3'UTR were 
 subjected to PCR using the genomic DNA of Yarrowia lipolytica POf as a template and the following primers, respectively; for the preparation of a pox2 deficient cassette, primers of SEQ ID NOs: 31 and 32, SEQ ID NOs: 35 and 36, 
 SEQ ID NOs: 37 and 38, for the preparation of an mfe1-deficient cassette, primers 
 of SEQ ID NOs: 39 and 40, SEQ ID NOs: 43 and 44, SEQ ID NOs: 45 and 46, for 
 the preparation of a pex1O-deficient cassette, primers of SEQ ID NOs: 47 and 48, 
 SEQ ID NOs: 51 and 52, SEQ ID NOs: 53 and 54, for the preparation of a potl 
 deficient cassette, primers of SEQ ID NOs: 55 and 56, SEQ ID NOs: 59 and 60, 
 SEQ ID NOs: 61 and 62, and for the preparation of an mhy-deficient cassette, 
 primers of SEQ ID NOs: 63 and 64, SEQ ID NOs: 67 and 68, SEQ ID NOs: 69 
 and 70 were used. For URA3, PCR was performed using a URA3 auxotrophic 
 marker as a template and primers of SEQ ID NOs: 33 and 34 for the preparation 
 of the pox2-deficient cassette, primers of SEQ ID NOs: 41 and 42 for the 
 preparation of the mfe1-deficient cassette, primers of SEQ ID NOs: 49 and 50 for 
 the preparation of the pex1O-deficient cassette, primers of SEQ ID NOs: 57 and 
 58 for the preparation of the pot-deficient cassette, and primers of SEQ ID 
 NOs: 65 and 66 for the preparation of the mhy-deficient cassette. 
 PCR was performed for 35 cycles under conditions consisting of 
 denaturation at 950C for 1 minute; annealing at 550 C for 1 minute; and 
 polymerization at 72C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. As a result, pox2_5' UTR 
 of 1,035 bp, pox2_5' UTRRP of 720 bp, pox2_3' UTR of 1,010 bp, pox2_URA3 
 of 1,569 bp, mfel_5'UTR of 1,003 bp, mfel_5'UTRRP of 709 bp, mfel3'UTR 
 of 1,036bp, mfelURA3 of 1,569bp, pex1O_5' UTR of 1,032bp, pex1O5' 
 UTRRP of 735 bp, pex10_3'UTR of 1,033 bp, pex10_URA3 of 1,569 bp, pot1_5' 
 UTR of 1,036bp, potl5' UTRRP of 735bp, potl_3' UTR of 1,010bp, 
 pot1_URA3 of 1,569 bp, mhyl_5' UTR of 921 bp, mhyl_5' UTRRP of 526 bp, 
 mhyl_3' UTR of 1,029 bp, and mhy_URA3 of 1,569 bp were obtained. The 
 DNA fragments amplified by PCR were prepared into a pox2-, mfe1-, pex10-, 
 pot1-, or mhyl-deficient cassette through overlap extension PCR. 
 First, the pox2-deficient cassette was transformed into Yarrowia lipolytica 
 PO1f by heat shock and selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. The 
 primary strain thus selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare a 
 pox2 gene-deficient strain. In the same manner, mfe1-, pex10-, pot1-, and 
 mhyl-deficient strains were prepared using mfe1-, pex10-, pot1-, or mhyl 
 deficient cassettes. The deficient strains thus prepared were designated as 
 "SC0023". 
 [Table 5] 
 SEQ ID NO: Primer name Sequence (5'-3') 
 31 POX2_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGAGATTCCGCCAAGTGAGACTG 
 32 POX2_5'_Rev GCAATGACGAGTCAGACAGGCGTTGCTTGTGTGATTTTTG 
 33 POX2_URAFor CAAAAATCACACAAGCAACGCCTGTCTGACTCGTCATTGC 
 34 POX2_URARev CGCTTGTCCAGTATGAATAGCTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 POX2_5'RPFor CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAGCTATTCATACTGGACAAGCG 
 36 POX2_5'RPRev CAATAAATACCCGCTTGTCCGTTGCTTGTGTGATTTTTG 
 37 POX2_3'_For CAAAAATCACACAAGCAACGGACAAGCGGGTATTTATTG 
 38 POX2_3'_Rev GCAGGTCGACTCTAGACCAAACAAAGCTGATGACAC 
 39 MFE1_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGACAAGCCAAAGAGATGTTGAC 
 MFE1_5'_Rev GCAATGACGAGTCAGACAGGGTTAATAACGTATCTTCTAC 
 41 MFE1_URAFor GTAGAAGATACGTTATTAACCCTGTCTGACTCGTCATTGC 
 42 MFE1_URARev CAAATCAGCCGTTGGCCTGCCTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 43 MFE1_5'RPFor CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAGGCAGGCCAACGGCTGATTTG 
 44 MFE1_5'RPRev CACTTGGTCAGATAATAGCGTTAATAACGTATCTTCTAC 
 MFE1_3'_For GTAGAAGATACGTTATTAACGCTATTATCTGACCAAGTG 
 46 MFE1_3'_Rev GCAGGTCGACTCTAGATGCTTGAAGGCATATGTGACTG 
 47 PEX10_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGAGTTTTCGTCTTAGCGTCATG 
 48 PEX10_5'_Rev GCAATGACGAGTCAGACAGGGCCGAGGCAGATTTGGGTTG 
 49 PEX10_URAFor CAACCCAAATCTGCCTCGGCCCTGTCTGACTCGTCATTGC 
 PEX10_URARev GAGTCCAGTAATTCTTTCCGCTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 51 PEX10_5'RPFor CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAGCGGAAAGAATTACTGGACTC 
 52 PEX10_5'RPRev CCTTCCATCCAGACCTCGTCGCCGAGGCAGATTTGGGTTG 
 53 PEX10_3'_For CAACCCAAATCTGCCTCGGCGACGAGGTCTGGATGGAAGG 
 54 PEX10_3'_Rev GCAGGTCGACTCTAGAGCTGACCTATACCAGATCAGACGC 
 POT1_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGACACAATACCCCACAGTGTGC 
 56 POT1_5'_Rev GCAATGACGAGTCAGACAGGGTGTGTCTTGGTTGGATGAG 
 57 POT1_URAFor CTCATCCAACCAAGACACACCCTGTCTGACTCGTCATTGC 
 58 POT1_URARev CAGGCGCTCCCCCATTGGCGCTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 59 POT1_5'RPFor CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAGCGCCAATGGGGGAGCGCCTG 
 POT1_5'RPRev GTTCGATCGCGATTCATTTCGTGTGTCTTGGTTGGATGAG 
 61 POT1_3'_For CTCATCCAACCAAGACACACGAAATGAATCGCGATCGAAC 
 62 POT1_3'_Rev GCAGGTCGACTCTAGAGAGGAGTGCTAAAATTAGCCCTGC 
 63 MHY1_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGATGTCAGCGAAAGCTCAAAG 
 64 MHY1_5'_Rev GCAATGACGAGTCAGACAGGCAATTCGAGGTCCATTTTGG 
 MHY1_URAFor CCAAAATGGACCTCGAATTGCCTGTCTGACTCGTCATTGC 
 66 MHY1_URARev GTGGTGCTTTTGTACTTGTCCTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 67 MHY1_5'RPFor CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAGGACAAGTACAAAAGCACCAC 
 68 MHY1_5'RPRev GAAGGCGCTCTACCTCTAGTCCAATTCGAGGTCCATTTTG 
 69 MHY1_3'_For CAAAATGGACCTCGAATTGGACTAGAGGTAGAGCGCCTTC 
 70 MHY1_3'_Rev GCAGGTCGACTCTAGACTGTGTTTGATTAGCTCTTCTCAG 
 3-2. Preparation of SCO023-based cho2-deficient strain ("SC0079") 
 A cho2 gene-deficient strain was prepared based on the high fat-producing 
 yeast strain SCO023 prepared in Example 3-1. The cho2-deficient cassette 
 prepared in Example 1-1 was transformed into SCO023 by heat shock and 
 selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. The primary strain thus 
 selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare a cho2 gene-deficient 
 strain. The deficient strain thus prepared was designated as "SCO079". 
 3-3. Preparation of SCO023-based opi3-deficient strain ("SCO163") 
 An opi3 gene-deficient strain was prepared based on the high fat 
 producing yeast strain SC0023 prepared in Example 3-1. The opi3-deficient 
 cassette prepared in Example 1-2 was transformed into SC0023 by heat shock 
 and selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. The primary strain thus 
 selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare an opi3 gene-deficient strain. The deficient strain thus prepared was designated as "SCO163". 
 3-4. Flask test 
 A flask test of the SCO079 and SCO163 strains prepared in Examples 3-2 
 and 3-3 was performed. 
 The two kinds of strains and the control group were seeded in a 250 mL 
 corner-baffle flask containing 50 mL of YLMM2, to which different concentrations 
 of choline were added, at an initial OD of 0.01, and cultured with shaking at 
 250 rpm and 30°C for 72 hours. The composition of the YLMM2 is as follows. 
 <YLMM2 (pH 7.2)> 
 40 g/L glucose, 1.7 g/L yeast nitrogen base without amino acids and 
 ammonium sulfate, 0.5 g/L uracil, and 1.25 g/L ammonium sulfate were dissolved 
 in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2). 
 After the culturing was terminated, the culture medium was centrifuged to 
 discard the supernatant, and cells remaining in the lower layer were dried in a dry 
 oven at 600 C for 24 hours, followed by fat extraction. Crude fat extraction was 
 performed according to the feed standard analysis method (feed standard 
 analysis method. 2001. National Livestock Research Institute, Rural Development 
 Administration), and the analyzed OD and the intracellular fat content are shown 
 in Table 6 below. The results in Table 6 are the results of experiments performed 
 in triplicate, and the increase in the fat content was evaluated by mean values 
 thereof. 
 [Table 6] 
 Strain Choline OD600 Crude fat content [%] 
 concentration Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean 
 [mM] 
 SCO023 0.00 45.5 45.9 46.0 45.8 22.8 23.0 22.6 22.8 
 0.05 45.8 46.4 45.8 46.0 22.7 22.3 22.8 22.6 
 0.10 46.1 45.5 46.1 45.9 22.8 22.7 23.2 22.9 
 0.30 46.3 46.0 46.3 46.2 22.6 22.4 22.8 22.6 
 0.50 46.8 47.2 46.7 46.9 22.9 22.5 23.0 22.8 
 1.00 47.1 47.0 46.0 46.7 22.4 22.3 22.8 22.5 
 SCO079 0.00 9.8 9.6 11.2 10.2 25.3 25.2 25.7 25.4 
 0.05 31.7 31.4 31.7 31.6 26.5 26.1 26.0 26.2 
 0.10 44.0 43.9 43.5 43.8 27.9 26.7 26.7 27.1 
 0.30 46.6 44.4 44.9 45.3 27.5 27.7 27.6 27.6 
 0.50 45.2 47.1 44.8 45.7 26.8 26.3 26.1 26.4 
 1.00 45.4 46.3 46.6 46.1 25.7 26.0 26.3 26.0 
 SCO163 0.00 11.4 10.5 12.0 11.3 25.9 25.1 24.9 25.3 
 0.05 33.5 31.6 31.8 32.3 26.0 26.0 25.7 25.9 
 0.10 43.7 44.4 44.5 44.2 26.1 26.4 26.1 26.2 
 0.30 44.6 45.8 44.3 44.9 26.9 26.0 27.2 26.7 
 0.50 45.5 44.7 45.1 45.1 26.3 25.6 26.4 26.1 
 1.00 46.0 45.8 44.7 45.5 26.0 26.1 25.6 25.9 
 As shown in Table 6, the strain, in which the cho2 or opi3 gene was deleted 
 from the parent strain SC0023, showed the fat content equal or similar to the 
 parent strain SCO023 in the medium containing choline at a concentration of 
 mM or 0.055 mM, but OD was much reduced. When choline was added at a 
 concentration of 0.1 mM or more to the medium, the OD was recovered to the 
 level of the control group, and the effect of increasing the fat content in the strain 
 was also observed. When 0.1 mM to 1 mM choline was added to the medium, 
 SC0079 showed a 16% to 22% increase in the crude fat content, and SCO163 
 showed a 14% to 18% increase in the crude fat content, as compared with 
 SC0023. However, in the SCO023 strain, where the PEMT pathway remained, 
 there was no change in the crude fat content, regardless of the choline 
 concentration in the medium. 
 As a result, it was confirmed that when an appropriate amount of choline 
 was added to the strain, in which the cho2 or opi3 gene on the PEMT pathway 
 was deleted, the growth of the strain recovered and the fat content in the strain 
 was increased. However, it was confirmed that the increase in the fat content 
 was relatively low when choline was added after the cho2 and opi3 genes were 
 deleted based on the fat accumulating strain SC0023, as compared with the case 
 where the cho2 and opi3 genes were deleted based on the wild-type strain. 
 Example 4. Preparation and Evaluation of Fat-Accumulating SCOO28 
 Based Deficient Strain 
 4-1. Preparation of fat-accumulating strain SCOO28 
 To examine the effect of CHO2- or OPI3-encoding gene deletion on a strain 
 having a higher fat content than the strain prepared in Example 3-1, another high 
 fat-producing yeast strain was prepared. 
 It is known that when acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase isozyme I 
 (DGA1), which is a terminal enzyme of the fat biosynthetic pathway, is 
 overexpressed, based on mfel- and pex1O-deficient strains, the fat content is 
 increased (Nat. Commun. 2014. 5:3131). Therefore, a promoter of dgal 
 (YAL10E32769) was replaced with a TEFINt promoter, based on the SC0023 
 strain prepared in Example 3-1, in which the fat degradation pathway was blocked 
 and the carbon flux into fat biosynthesis increased (METAB ENG 2015. 29:56-65). 
 A process of preparing a cassette for the promoter replacement is as follows. 
 To prepare the cassette capable of replacing the promoter of dgal gene, a 
 polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 71 and an amino acid sequence of SEQ 
 ID NO: 72 of dgal were obtained based on the nucleotide sequence registered at 
 KEGG. Design of the cassette for replacing the dgal promoter was performed in 
 the order of 5' UTR-TEFINt1-URA3-TEFINt2-gene(dga), and for 5' UTR, TEFINt1, and TEFINt2, PCR was performed using the genomic DNA of Yarrowia 
 lipolytica POf as a template and primers of SEQ ID NOs: 73 and 74, SEQ ID 
 NOs: 75 and 76, SEQ ID NOs: 79 and 80, and SEQ ID NOs: 81 and 82, 
 respectively. Further, PCR was performed using the URA3 auxotrophic marker 
 as a template and primers of SEQ ID NOs: 77 and 78. PCR was performed for 
 cycles under conditions consisting of denaturation at 95 0C for 1 minute; annealing at 550C for 1 minute; and polymerization at 72 0C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. As a result, dga_5' UTR of 1,539 bp, dgaTEFINt1 of 573 bp, dgalTEFINt2 of 571 bp, dgalgene of 1,539 bp, and dgalURA3 of 1,574 bp were obtained. The DNA fragments amplified by PCR were subjected to overlap extension PCR to prepare the cassette for replacing the dga1 promoter. 
 The cassette for replacing the dgal promoter was transformed into 
 SC0023 by heat shock and selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. 
 The primary strain thus selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare 
 a strain in which the dga promoter was replaced with the TEFINt promoter. The 
 deficient strain thus prepared was designated as "SCO028". 
 [Table 7] 
 SEQ ID NO: Primer name Sequence (5'-3') 
 73 DGA1_5'_For GTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGAGACGAGAAACAAATCATGTG 
 74 DGA1_5'_Rev CGCCGCCAACCCGGTCTCTAGCTTTTGTTTTGTGTGACTTG 
 75 DGAlTEF1_For CAAGTCACACAAAACAAAAGCTAGAGACCGGGTTGGCGGCG 
 76 DGAlTEF1_Rev GACGAGTCAGACAGGAGGCACTGCGGTTAGTACTGCAAAAAG 
 77 DGAlURAFor CTTTTTGCAGTACTAACCGCAGTGCCTCCTGTCTGACTCGTC 
 78 DGAlURARev CGCCGCCAACCCGGTCTCTTGGTGGTATTGTGACTGGG 
 79 DGAlTEF2_For CCCAGTCACAATACCACCAAGAGACCGGGTTGGCGGCG 
 80 DGAlTEF2_Rev GTAGTATTGTGAGTCGATAGTCTGCGGTTAGTACTGCAAAAAG 
 81 DGA1_dga1_For CTTTTTGCAGTACTAACCGCAGACTATCGACTCACAATACTAC 
 82 DGA1_dga1_Rev GCCTGCAGGTCGACTCTAGATTACTCAATCATTCGGAACTC 
 4-2. Preparation of SCOO28-based cho2-deficient strain ("SC048") 
 A cho2 gene-deficient strain was prepared based on the high fat-producing 
 yeast strain SCO028 prepared in Example 4-1. The cho2-deficient cassette 
 prepared in Example 1-1 was transformed into SCO028 by heat shock and 
 selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. The primary strain thus 
 selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare a cho2 gene-deficient 
 strain. The deficient strain thus prepared was designated as "SCO048". 
 4-3. Preparation of SCOO28-based opi3-deficient strain ("SC0067") 
 An opi3 gene-deficient strain was prepared based on the high fat producing yeast strain SC0028 prepared in Example 4-1. The opi3-deficient cassette prepared in Example 1-2 was transformed into SC0028 by heat shock and selected on a solid medium containing no uracil. The primary strain thus selected was subjected to a second crossover to prepare an opi3 gene-deficient strain. The deficient strain thus prepared was designated as "SC0067". 
 4-4. Flask test 
 A flask test of the SCO048 and SCO067 strains prepared in Examples 4-2 
 and 4-3 was performed. 
 The two kinds of strains and SC0028 were seeded in a 250 mL corner 
 baffle flask containing 50 mL of YLMM2 containing no choline or containing 
 0.3 mM choline at an initial OD of 0.01, and each cultured with shaking at 250 rpm 
 and 30°C for 72 hours. The composition of the YLMM2 is the same as in 
 Example 3-4. 
 After the culturing was terminated, the culture medium was centrifuged to 
 discard the supernatant, and cells remaining in the lower layer were dried in a dry 
 oven at 600C overnight, followed by fat extraction. Crude fat extraction was 
 performed according to the feed standard analysis method (feed standard 
 analysis method. 2001. National Livestock Research Institute, Rural Development 
 Administration), and the analyzed OD and the intracellular fat content are shown 
 in Table 8 below. The results in Table 8 are the results of experiments performed 
 in triplicate, and the increase in the fat content was evaluated by mean values thereof. 
 [Table 8] 
 Strain OD600 Crude fat content [%] 
 Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 Mean 
 SCO028 44.8 44.1 43.7 44.2 45.9 45.9 45.6 45.8 
 SCO028 (w/ CL) 43.9 44.0 44.6 44.2 45.3 45.8 46.0 45.7 
 SCO048 11.2 11.4 11.3 11.3 47.2 47.1 47.6 47.3 
 SCO048 (w/ CL) 43.3 43.4 45.0 43.9 52.3 54.4 49.9 52.2 
 SCO067 11.7 11.9 11.2 11.6 47.1 47.8 46.7 47.2 
 SCO067 (w/ CL) 44.5 44.1 44.6 44.4 50.3 50.8 50.7 50.6 
 As shown in Table 8, the strain in which the cho2 or opi3 gene was deleted 
 from the parent strain SCO028 showed an equal or similar fat content in the 
 medium containing no choline, but OD was much reduced. 
 When 0.3 mM choline was added to the medium, the OD was recovered to 
 the level of the control group, and the effect of increasing the fat content in the 
 strain was also observed, as in Example 3-4. When 0.3 mM choline was added 
 to the medium, SC0048 showed a 14% increase in the fat content, and SCO067 
 showed a 10% increase in the fat content, as compared with SC0028. 
 Accordingly, it was also confirmed that when an appropriate amount of 
 choline was added to the strain, in which the cho2 or opi3 gene was deleted, the 
 growth of the strain was recovered, and at the same time, the fat content in the 
 strain was increased. In addition, as described in Example 3-4, as the fat 
 content in the strain increased, the increase in the fat content decreased when the 
 cho2 and opi3 genes were deleted. 
 Based on the above description, it will be understood by those skilled in the 
 art that the present disclosure may be implemented in a different specific form 
 without changing the technical spirit or essential characteristics thereof. 
 Therefore, it should be understood that the above embodiment is not limitative, 
 but illustrative in all aspects. The scope of the disclosure is defined by the 
 appended claims rather than by the description preceding them, and therefore all 
 changes and modifications that fall within metes and bounds of the claims or 
 equivalents of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by 
 the claims. 
 BUDAPEST TREATy ON T[F INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 INTEGRATION FORM 
 To. CJ CliJdelang Corprnon A CRILJEDAN, CENTER. k .fIPT IN 'I CASE OT AN'iU IlI I OSIT 3 N ned1)nIndn in Rule 7.1 by I.,c 
 [CTERNAEIJNA E[POSITARV AlTROJTY ;ijNO4 :EL2.t [01] 10( 1 ," ,, REPUBLIC OF KOREA 
 I IDENTF[CATIONOF TEMJCROJRtiANISM 
 Hdeninirion refirencLeiG by 1]h given by h AccessMannueniber DEPOSITOR: INTERNATIONAL DIlITARY ALhORITY: rarouwla ipHiliko CC08-0183 KCCM1l67EP 
 [ SCIENTIEIC DESCRITION AND:OR FRfUL[D TAXOiNOMEC DESIGNATION 
 The mieniorganisdlindiled uinder ILkix wa accoinpanied by oe[1scimidIc Snptim J U prrcTpuedi t M mi d :riii OM rMfd with u cross wverepplieniI 
 Il. itECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE 
 ihis ieniaiinnil Drepsirary Aulheriey eopir lih eir r ri deiifa under I sh w. which *n, re I by it (. FIebruary. 20 1020 dlenih riuiaridpuil 
 [V RECEIPT -F REQUEST5EOR F ON ER.SJO1 
 Thliicrwilem giss iclenirfied under I above recivd by r hisci ibryir f lpadkory Auibarily im inuleol theiiriiioldu dvlnwi giLl a requei ii ceer tlhe orginni &ik 'il in # ili.ii under 0hKElipr Inery WoIiid by ir an leil of ecltipir if req <;1 for rcinerniil 
 v INTR.NATONALIDEPOSITARY AUTHORITY 
 Nune: KurnenCilrrtinieriaf Microrjmisn Siu ir, poi liln Iuing Ihrb piti r rc:preele idieIrirerritranio Epsdlary Adluiken : Yiil~rill A'i".cti ''r reauimcnredtoficili eus ae.F:b-20l1 A& dYU,r- 45,Elarigen-Jp-ilI 
 SEOUL IL.dt Republic ai Korea 
 'Alren Rule 6.4.d applies csh daie is the idacan while a i o[l mai I I p;j 1 .hry was arqured. 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE ERNATIONAL RECOGNITON OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANTSMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 INTERNATIONAL FORM 
 TE. ciJ1 a1CorpeArian ClCIILJLDANG CENTER RiFCF'TINT iltCASE OTA D0ROI L t1i1'II 3)0.0N011-ltL' '~fi4 i~mn in Wle I, by the INt ' IN Al [tP1S[TARYALUORITY JINO-CA SEOUIL :1O-Or rkki li .1 r ehon inofh tk1 pac 
 i [DI-NTWFECATION OF Ti-E MIECROIRiANISM 
 IdgnijticEtion rmi-ererue ,n bythC Accussian number eive by nw DEPGSITOR: INTERNATIONAL llPUITARY MTRORITY: ]arrrivJLJ pysica CC&8-0[62 KCCMJ21IP 
 SscIEI1it DFSCRIPTIN ANDOR1PROED TAXONOMC DIGNATJION 
 T|bc minrganinrientifiedi under I above wu icrnpumd by 
 I apropul ilIrcrlpIcdijptiu (Mark with a crss whreu tppliecbkl 
 M[. RECEIPT AND ACETTANCE 
 This Inerflririll |}ipoltiar Aulharirr acepi the ir urnan m 'dnili aindcr IT which was received by itccFbmy. 20 2020 ( idu o4 liriginuli npsill. 
 |V RECEIPT OF REQUEST O C1NV7ERkiON 
 The micrwanisni identified Lmidcr I ibow e iL. treM dbyli InrvMuiCCal DepositryAullhorily an Idauteu Nuinip'ul depeo|rr nd aregen to caur the urginaddiLpl .kp.il al r ibTlupzlTt'iT y ii i t jti 11 a arn Ide vo dale r«'f p Mlufi 1q"ifur crinernni. 
 V [NTERNAT13JNAL DEPOSIIRV AUTHORITYY 
 Name : Korean Culture C.eT!rfMirnnomil Sitnrftcia jntti prnit:b) li-, icv ,aner tle rpentent lrlleilluliLulLDep.nirJy Addresn Yunm 0 D Authrity m ofmilaria:,J 6 45 Hmeieraej -2p-pl Dale: Februarv. M1120 SEO'L 3641 Republicof Korea 
 whrC le Aid1 Irpphies. such ien t done n iMch Ii nltun ol m n rva,* hoy t-a mcjired. 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNIION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 TNTERNATIONAL FORM 
 Ta. C1 C[nlmIcuCrpumeii C CHlIlUEDAO CENTER. RECErT IN ThiE CASE *T ., NI iAI f35'|IT 33. DONG -RO. sud puriant io Rule ~.I by the NTER NAIlINA .I DFPOSFTARY .1:ThORI[TV JUNG-GU- 1S1ll lIHI-II ideuifiedt the bam of ihis pae REPUBL]C D KOREA 
 I I TDENTIFICATION Or il E MCRODRGAN[SM 
 dmidiscia reference iveni b ibe Acresoerurrbr lhe by 1he DEPO51TOR: JNiSRNAT14.O1 DFOSITARY AUTHORITY lorrYamer Ipa rokrrCCI-4123 KCCI2613P 
 [[. SCIENTIFIC DESCRIPTON AND/OR PROPOSED TAXONOMIC DE5] NATION 
 The rroarjurpunetimIt lblIaUnMder I &bUkL Wa aN-iimlntit b'y Sav.secnile dezription a proposed lUnuttunic dnation fMark uih a r s l whi4lph-Ibl IL RECEIPT A^D ACCPTANCF. 
 Thinenuneianal Deposira ALiaririr arempl lhe rnicroorganisrn idmliied under I abi, which war riocd b5 ift FtreiryT 2ii qZ[) 4do1e thriins dcpnuil. IV, ICEiT Of REQUEST FORCONVERSION 
 The mierurgrtsn idenitfied Lnderc above was rtaiviiI by lis imnl Dl1tsiiay Auriory Mi Fiue or he' ciriginal drpsitit aid a Tequez rai -morfLtihe nrinil deposi r a deposit under ihe Budape1 Tray was reed by ian daleofreerpi uf reurl forf ersin1 
 V INTERNATIONALL DEPSITARY AUTHORITY 
 Name : Koran Cullur Center f MiLurpixnm Rinnarreisl nf peonno) hauiqr 1he power le represenmti: lienrlaionalI Depsilary Adlress : YLITI 50 Auvitr n 4uhlrifeiedlsI: 
 SerdamnrsDg DNtbbimitry 2[ flL| SEUL 03641 Repoiblic of Korea 
 TWhere Ruleb .4VI A isuch dauit is ihc dale on wrdf heIOS cif nt =njph. Jt wa aqured 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
