
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [DESCRIPTION] 
 [TITLE OF THE INVENTION] 
 SHEWANELLA ATLANTICA-DERIVED PROTEIN-EXPRESSING 
 MICROORGANISM AND L-AMINO ACID PRODUCTION METHOD USING SAME 
 [TECHNICAL FIELD] 
 A microorganism expressing a foreign protein and a method for producing L 
 amino acid using thereof are provided. The microorganism expressing a foreign protein 
 may have improved L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity compared to the 
 wild type. 
 [BACKGROUNDART] 
 A Genus Corynebacterium microorganism is a gram-positive microorganism that 
 is widely used in production of L-amino acid. L-amino acid is used in animal feed, human 
 pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries and is produced by fermentation using a 
 Corynebacterium strain. 
 Many attempts have been made to improve the method for production of L-amino 
 acid using a Corynebacterium strain. Among them, there have been studies to improve a 
 Corynebacterium strain producing L-amino acid by destroying a specific gene or 
 attenuating expression using recombinant DNA technology. In addition, there have been 
 studies to study the effect on L-amino acid production by amplifying a gene involved in 
 biosynthesis of each L-amino acid and to improve a Corynebacterium strain producing L 
 amino acid. Nevertheless, there is still a need to develop a strain with improved 
 productivity of L-amino acid. 
 [DISCLOSURE] 
 [TECHNICAL PROBLEM] 
 One example provides a microorganism expressing a foreign protein. The foreign 
 protein is a protein derived from a heterogeneous microorganism of the microorganism, 
 and may be a protein whose lysine exporting function is newly discovered in the present 
 description. The microorganism expressing a foreign protein may have improved 
 exporting ability and/or productivity of L-amino acid, compared to a homogenous 
 microorganism which does not express the foreign protein. 
 Another example provides a composition for producing L-amino acid comprising 
 the microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 Other example provides a method for production of L-amino acid, comprising 
 culturing the microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 The microorganism may be a Genus Corynebacterium microorganism. 
 [TECHNICAL SOLUTION] 
 In the present description, for the purpose of increasing the L-amino acid 
 productivity of a Genus Corynebacterium microorganism, it was attempted to improve the 
 strain by searching for and introducing a novel exporting protein of L-amino acid. 
 Described using L-lysine as a representative example, in general, there is a method of 
 improving the L-lysine yield of the strain or increasing the L-lysine product quantity per 
 hour in order to increase the lysine productivity. The L-lysine exporting protein is a 
 membrane protein exporting lysine produced thorough biosynthesis, and the 
 improvement of this protein is important for increasing the lysine yield and productivity. 
 However, the increase in the expression level of the L-lysine exporting protein (lysE, 
 Ncgl1214) possessed by the Genus Corynebacterium microorganism has a limit in improving the lysine productivity. 
 Accordingly, in the present description, a new foreign L-amino acid exporting 
 protein with high L-amino acid exporting activity was searched, and by introducing this to 
 a lysine producing strain, a recombinant strain with improved L-amino acid exporting 
 ability and/or productivity was provided. 
 In the present description, as a representative example of the new foreign L-amino 
 acid exporting protein, a novel L-amino acid exporting protein derived from Shewanella 
 atlantica and a gene encoding this were discovered, and as the result of expressing this 
 to a microorganism producing L-amino acid, it was confirmed that the exporting 
 ability/productivity of L-amino acid was significantly improved, compared to a 
 microorganism in which the gene was not expressed. 
 One example provides a microorganism expressing a foreign protein. The foreign 
 protein is a protein derived from a heterogeneous microorganism to the microorganism, 
 and may be a protein whose lysine exporting function was newly discovered. The 
 microorganism expressing a foreign protein may have improved exporting ability and/or 
 productivity of L-amino acid, for example, L-lysine or L-arginine. 
 Another example provides a composition for production of L-amino acid 
 comprising the microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 Other example provides a method for production of L-amino acid, comprising 
 culturing the microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 The microorganism may be a Genus Corynebacterium microorganism. 
 The L-amino acid may comprise L-lysine or L-arginine. 
 Hereinafter, it will be described in more detail. 
 In the present description, the foreign protein may be a protein derived from a 
 microorganism belonging to a different genus from the parent strain (microorganism 
 before mutation) or a different species of microorganism, and for example, it may be a 
 membrane protein derived from a microorganism other than a microorganism belonging 
 to the genus Corynebacterium, which is a protein having the exporting ability of L-lysine 
 or L-arginine, newly discovered in the present description. In one example, the foreign 
 protein may be a membrane protein derived from a genus Shewanella microorganism, 
 for example, Shewanella atlantica (for example, represented by the amino acid sequence 
 of SEQ ID NO: 1); a protein (e.g., membrane protein) having a sequence identity or 
 homology of 60% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, 90% 
 or more, 91% or more, 92% or more, 93% or more, 94% or more, 95% or more, 96% or 
 more, 97% or more, 98% or more, 99% or more, 99.5% or more, or 99.9% or more to the 
 protein. 
 The microorganism may comprise or express one or more kinds of the foreign 
 protein. The microorganism expressing a foreign protein may be a recombinant 
 microorganism in which a polynucleotide encoding the foreign protein described above is 
 introduced. In one example, the polynucleotide encoding the protein of SEQ ID NO: 1 
 may be represented by the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a sequence having 
 a sequence identity or homology of 60% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or 
 more, 85% or more, 90% or more, 91% or more, 92% or more, 93% or more, 94% or 
 more, 95% or more, 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, 99% or more, 99.5% or 
 more, or 99.9% or more with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 The microorganism expressing a foreign protein may be a microorganism producing L-amino acid having the L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity. 
 In the present description, the term "L-amino acid producing microorganism" may 
 be used to mean the case that the microorganism has the increased L-amino acid 
 exporting ability and/or productivity as the microorganism having the L-amino acid 
 exporting ability and/or productivity is mutated to express a foreign protein as described 
 above and/or the microorganism has the L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity 
 as a microorganism not having the L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity is 
 mutated to express the foreign protein. In the present description, "microorganism" 
 encompasses single-celled bacteria, and may be used interchangeably with "cell". In the 
 present description, in order to distinguish the microorganism before being mutated to 
 express the foreign protein from the mutated microorganism, it may be expressed as a 
 "parent microorganism (or parent strain) or host cell". 
 The L-amino acid may be L-lysine or L-arginine, for example, L-lysine. 
 In one example, the microorganism may be selected from all microorganisms 
 having the L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity. In one example, the 
 microorganism, for example, parent strain before mutation may be (1) a microorganism 
 having L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity naturally, or (2) a microorganism 
 having L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity or with improved L-amino acid 
 exporting ability and/or productivity, as mutation is introduced to the microorganism 
 having L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity naturally or a strain having 
 significantly low L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity. 
 In one specific example, the microorganism may be one or more kinds selected 
 from the group consisting of (1) a microorganism having L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity naturally or (2) all the genus Corynebacterium microorganisms having 
 L-amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity or with improved L-amino acid exporting 
 ability and/or productivity, as mutation is introduced to the microorganism having L-amino 
 acid exporting ability and/or productivity naturally or a strain having significantly low L 
 amino acid exporting ability and/or productivity. The genus Corynebacterium 
 microorganism may include Corynebacterium glutamicum, Corynebacterium 
 ammoniagenes, Brevibacterium lactofermentum, Brevibacterium flavum, 
 Corynebacterium thermoaminogenes, Corynebacterium efficiens, and the like, but not 
 definitely limited thereto. Much more specifically, the genus Corynebacterium 
 microorganism may be Corynebacterium glutamicum. 
 In one example, the microorganism expressing a foreign protein may be a 
 microorganism in which mutation to express the foreign protein is introduced. As such, 
 the microorganism mutated to express the foreign protein, may have increased L-amino 
 acid exporting ability and/or productivity, compared to a homogeneous non-modified 
 microorganism. The non-modified microorganism is a microorganism which does not 
 express the foreign protein, and may mean a homogeneous microorganism in which 
 mutation to express the foreign protein is not introduced or a microorganism before 
 introducing the mutation. 
 In the present description, "mutation to express a foreign protein" may mean all 
 manipulations that allow a parent strain to express the foreign protein described above. 
 In one example, the mutation to express a foreign protein may introduce a polynucleotide 
 encoding the foreign protein or a recombinant vector comprising the same into the parent 
 strain. 
 The "microorganism in which mutation to express a foreign protein is introduced" 
 or "microorganism mutated to express a foreign protein" may be a microorganism in which 
 a polynucleotide encoding the foreign protein or a recombinant vector comprising the 
 same is introduced, and compared to the non-modified microorganism, the L-amino acid 
 exporting ability and/or productivity are imparted or increased. 
 In one example, the parent strain may be wild type or mutated so that the 
 exporting ability and/or productivity of L-amino acid are increased, for example, the 
 protein activity involved in biosynthesis or metabolism of L-amino acid is controlled 
 (increased (promoted) or reduced (inhibited)), compared to the wild type, but not limited 
 thereto. 
 In one specific example, the microorganism producing L-amino acid in which the 
 foreign protein is expressed may be accession number KCCM_12828P. 
 In the present description, that a polynucleotide (which may be used 
 interchangeably with "gene") or a polypeptide (which may be used interchangeably with 
 "protein") "comprises a specific nucleic acid sequence or an amino acid sequence, 
 consists of a specific nucleic acid sequence or an amino acid sequence, or is represented 
 by a specific nucleic acid sequence or an amino acid sequence" is an interchangeable 
 expression with the equivalent meaning, and may mean that the polynucleotide or 
 polypeptide necessarily comprises the specific nucleic acid sequence or amino acid 
 sequence, and may be interpreted as comprising a "substantially equivalent sequence" 
 in which a mutation (deletion, substitution, modification and/or addition) is added to the 
 specific nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence within the range of maintaining 
 the original function and/or desired function of the polynucleotide or polypeptide (or not excluding the mutation). 
 In one example, the nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence provided in 
 the present description may comprise that modified by common mutagenesis, for 
 example, direct evolution and/or site-directed mutagenesis, and the like, within the range 
 of maintaining its original function and/or desired function. In the present description, 
 unless otherwise described, that a polynucleotide or polypeptide "comprises a specific 
 nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence or consists of the sequence" may mean 
 that the polynucleotide or polypeptide (i) necessarily comprises the specific nucleic acid 
 sequence or amino acid sequence, or (ii) consists of the amino acid sequence having a 
 homology of 60% or more, 65% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% 
 or more, 90% or more, 91% or more, 92% or more, 93% or more, 94% or more, 95% or 
 more, 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, 99% or more, 99.5% or more, or 99.9% 
 or more to the specific nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence and maintains the 
 original function and/or desired function. In the present description, the original function 
 may be lysine exporting protein function (in case of amino acid sequence) or function 
 encoding a protein having the lysine exporting protein function (in case of nucleic acid 
 sequence), and the desired function may mean function to increase or give the exporting 
 ability and/or productivity of L-amino acid (for example, L-lysine, L-arginine or a 
 combination thereof) of a microorganism. 
 Herein, the term 'homology' or 'identity' means a degree related to two given 
 amino acid sequences or nucleotide sequences and may be expressed as a percentage. 
 The terms homology and identity are often used interchangeably. 
 The sequence homology or identity of the conserved polynucleotide or polypeptide is determined by a standard arrangement algorithm, and a default gap penalty established by a program to be used. Substantially, a homologous or identical sequence may be hybridized under moderate or high stringent conditions along the entire sequence or at least about 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% or 90% of the full-length. It is apparent that hybridization comprises polynucleotides containing common codons or codons considering codon degeneracy in polynucleotides. 
 Whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have homology, 
 similarity or identity, may be determined using a known computer algorithm such as 
 "FASTA" program, for example, using a default parameter as Pearson et al (1988) [Proc. 
 Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 85]: 2444. Otherwise, it may be determined using Needleman 
 Wunsch algorithm (Needleman and Wunsch, 1970, J. Mol. Biol. 48: 443-453), as 
 performed in Needleman program of EMBOSS package (EMBOSS: The European 
 Molecular Biology Open Software Suite, Rice et al., 2000, Trends Genet. 16: 276-277) 
 (version 5.0.0 or later version) (including GCG program package (Devereux, J., et al, 
 Nucleic Acids Research 12: 387 (1984)), BLASTP, BLASTN, FASTA (Atschul, [S.] [F.,] 
 [ET AL, J MOLEC BIOL 215]: 403 (1990); Guide to Huge Computers, Martin J. Bishop, 
 [ED.,] Academic Press, San Diego,1994, and [CARILLO ETA/.](1988) SIAM J Applied 
 Math 48: 1073). For example, using BLAST, or ClustalW of National Center for 
 Biotechnology Information Database, the homology, similarity or identity may be 
 determined. 
 The homology, similarity or identity of the polynucleotide or polypeptide may be 
 determined by comparing the sequence information, as known in Smith and Waterman, 
 Adv. Apple. Math (1981) 2:482, for example, using GAP computer program such as 
 Needleman et al. (1970), J Mol Biol. 48:443. In summary, the GAP program may be 
 defined as a value of dividing the total number of symbols in the shorter of two sequences 
 by the number of similarly arranged symbols (namely, nucleotides or amino acids). The 
 default parameter for the GAP program may include (1) a binary system comparison 
 matrix (containing a value of 1 for identity and 0 for non-identity) and an aggravated 
 comparison matrix of Gribskov et al(1986) Nucl. Acids Res. 14: 6745, described by 
 Schwartz and Dayhoff, eds., Atlas Of Protein Sequence And Structure, National 
 Biomedical Research Foundation, pp. 353-358 (1979) (or EDNAFULL (EMBOSS version 
 of NCBI NUC4.4) substitution matrix); (2) a penalty of 3.0 for each gap and an additional 
 0.10 penalty for each symbol in each gap (or a gap opening penalty 10, a gap extension 
 penalty 0.5); and (3) no penalty for an end gap. 
 In addition, whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have 
 homology, similarity or identity may be confirmed by comparing sequences by a southern 
 hybridization experiment under defined stringent conditions, and the defined appropriate 
 hybridization condition may be determined by a method known to those skilled in the art, 
 within the range of the corresponding technology (for example, J. Sambrook et al., 
 Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 
 press, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, 1989; F.M. Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in 
 Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York). The nucleic acid sequence 
 described in the present description may have various modifications in a coding region 
 within the range that does not change the amino acid sequence and/or function of a 
 protein expressed from the coding region, in consideration of a preferred codon in a 
 microorganism to express the protein (lysine exporting protein) due to degeneracy of the codon. 
 In one example, the polynucleotide comprising a specific nucleic acid sequence 
 provided in the present description may be interpreted to comprise not only the specific 
 nucleic acid sequence or substantially equivalent nucleic acid sequence thereto, but also 
 a polynucleotide fragment comprising a complementary nucleic acid sequence to the 
 specific nucleic acid sequence. Specifically, the polynucleotide having complementarity 
 may be hybridized at a Tm value appropriately adjustable by those skilled in the art on 
 purposes, for example a Tm value of 55C, 600 C, 630C or 650C, and analyzed under the 
 condition described below: This condition is described specifically in the known literature. 
 For example, a condition in which genes having high complementarity of 60% or more, 
 65% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, 90% or more, 91% 
 or more, 92% or more, 93% or more, 94% or more, 95% or more, 96% or more, 97% or 
 more, 98% or more, 98% or more, 99.5% or more, or 99.9% or more are hybridized and 
 genes having lower complementarity are not hybridized, or a common washing condition 
 of southern hybridization, which is a condition of washing once, specifically, twice to 3 
 times, at the salt concentration and temperature corresponding to 600 C, 1x SSC(saline 
 sodium citrate buffer), and 0.1%(w/v) SDS (Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate); 60 0C, 0.1x SSC, 
 and 0.1% SDS; or 680C, 0.1x SSC, and 0.1% SDS, orthe like, but not limited thereto. In 
 the hybridization, it may be required that two nucleotides have a complementary 
 sequence, or a mismatch between bases may be allowed according to the severity level 
 of hybridization. The term "complementary" may be used to describe the relationship between nucleotide bases capable of hybridizing with each other. For example, in case of DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine and cytosine is complementary to guanine. The appropriate severity level of hybridizing polynucleotides is dependent on the length of polynucleotides and degree of complementarity, and this is well known to the related technical field (See Sambrook et al., supra,9.50-9.51, 11.7-11.8). 
 The introduction of the polynucleotide or vector may be performed by selecting a 
 known transformation method by those skilled in the art. In the present description, the 
 term "transformation" means introducing a polynucleotide encoding a target protein 
 (foreign protein) or a vector comprising the same into a host cell to express a protein 
 encoded by the polynucleotide in the host cell. As long as it can be expressed in the host 
 cell, whether inserted and located in the chromosome of the host cell or located 
 extrachromosomally, the transformed polynucleotide may include all of them. In addition, 
 the polynucleotide includes DNA and/or RNA encoding a target protein. As long as the 
 polynucleotide is introduced and expressed in a host cell, the form in which it is introduced 
 is not limited. For example, the polynucleotide may be introduced into a host cell in a form 
 of an expression cassette which is a gene structure comprising all elements required to 
 be expressed by itself. The expression cassette may generally comprise regulatory 
 elements such as a promoter which is operably linked to the polynucleotide, a 
 transcription termination signal, a ribosome binding site and/or a translation termination 
 signal, and the like. The expression cassette may be in a form of an expression vector 
 capable of self-replication. In addition, the polynucleotide may be introduced into a host 
 cell in its own form and operably linked to a sequence required for expression in the host 
 cell. In the above, the term "operably connected" may mean that expression regulatory elements (e.g., promoter) and the polynucleotide are functionally linked in order that the expression regulatory elements perform regulation of transcription (e.g., transcription initiation) of the polynucleotide encoding a target protein (foreign protein). Operable linking may be performed using a genetic recombination technique known in the art, and for example, may be performed by conventional site-specific DNA cleavage and ligation, but is not limited thereto. 
 The method for transforming the polynucleotide into a host cell may be performed 
 by any method of introducing a nucleic acid into a cell (microorganism), and may be 
 performed by appropriately selecting a transformation technique known in the art 
 according to the host cell. As the known transformation method, electroporation, calcium 
 phosphate (CaPO4) precipitation, calcium chloride (CaCl2) precipitation, microinjection, 
 polyethylene glycol (PEG) precipitation (polyethylene glycol-mediated uptake), DEAE 
 dextran method, cation liposome method, lipofection, lithium acetate-DMSO method, and 
 the like may be illustrated, but not limited thereto. 
 The introduction (insertion) into a host cell genome (chromosome) of the 
 polynucleotide may be performed by appropriately selecting a known method by those 
 skilled in the art, and for example, may be performed using an RNA-guided endonuclease 
 system (or CRISPR system; for example, one or more selected from the group consisting 
 of (a) an RNA-guided endonuclease (e.g., Cas9 protein, etc.), its encoding gene, or a 
 vector comprising the gene; and (b) a mixture comprising a guide RNA (e.g., single guide 
 RNA (sgRNA), etc.), its encoding DNA, or a vector comprising the DNA (for example, a 
 mixture of a RNA-guided endonuclease protein and a guide RNA, etc.), a complex (for 
 example, ribonucleic acid fusion protein (RNP), a recombinant vector (For example, a vector comprising an RNA-guided endonuclease encoding gene and a guide RNA encoding DNA together, etc.)), but not limited thereto. 
 Herein, the term "vector" means a DNA product containing the nucleotide 
 sequence of a polynucleotide encoding the target protein operably linked to a suitable 
 regulatory sequence so as to express the target protein in a suitable host. The regulatory 
 sequence may comprise a promoter capable of initiating transcription, any operator 
 sequence for regulating transcription, a sequence encoding a suitable mRNA ribosome 
 binding site, and/or a sequence regulating termination of transcription and/or translation. 
 The vector may be expressed independently of the genome of the host cell or may be 
 integrated into the genome of the host cell, after transformation into an appropriate host 
 cell. 
 The vector usable herein is not particularly limited as long as it is capable of 
 replicating in a host cell, and may be selected from all commonly used vectors. The 
 example of the commonly used vector may include natural or recombinant plasmids, 
 cosmids, viruses, bacteriophages, and the like. For example, for the vector, as a phage 
 vector or cosmid vector, pWE15, M13, MBL3, MBL4, IXII, ASHII, APII, t10, t11, Charon4A, 
 and Charon21A, and the like may be used, and as a plasmid vector, pBR-based, pUC 
 based, pBluescriptl-based, pGEM-based, pTZ-based, pCL-based and pET-based, and 
 the like, may be used. Specifically, pDZ, pACYC177, pACYC184, pCL, pECCG117, 
 pUC19, pBR322, pMW118, pCC1BAC vectors, and the like may be illustrated, but not 
 limited thereto. 
 The vector usable herein may be a known expression vector and/or a vector for 
 insertion into a host cell chromosome of a polynucleotide. The insertion into a host cell chromosome of a polynucleotide may be conducted by any method known in the art, for example, homologous recombination or CRISPR system, but not limited thereto. The vector may further comprise a selection marker to confirm insertion into the chromosome. 
 The selection marker is to select a transformed cell by the vector, that is, to confirm 
 insertion of the polynucleotide, and it may be selected among genes giving selectable 
 phenotypes such as drug resistance, auxotrophic requirement, resistance to cytotoxic 
 agents, or expression of a surface protein and used. As only the cells expressing the 
 selection marker are survived or exhibit other expression traits in an environment treated 
 with a selective agent, transformed cells may be selected. 
 Other example provides a method for increasing L-amino acid exporting activity 
 and/or productivity of the microorganism or a method for giving L-amino acid exporting 
 activity and/or productivity to the microorganism, comprising introducing (transforming) 
 the aforementioned foreign protein, its encoding polynucleotide or a recombinant vector 
 comprising the polynucleotide into a microorganism is provided. 
 The foreign protein, polynucleotide and microorganism are same as described 
 above. 
 Other example provides a method for production of L-amino acid, comprising 
 culturing the aforementioned L-amino acid producing microorganism in a medium. The 
 method may further comprise recovering L-amino acid from the cultured microorganism, 
 medium or both of them, after the culturing. 
 In the method, the culturing the microorganism may be performed by a known 
 batch culturing method, a continuous culturing method, a fed-batch culturing method, and 
 the like, but not particularly limited thereto. Then, the culturing condition, is not particularly limited thereto, but the optimal pH (for example, pH 5 to 9, specifically, pH 6 to 8, most specifically, pH 6.8) may be adjusted using a basic compound (e.g.: sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or ammonia) or an acidic compound (e.g.: phosphoric acid or sulfuric acid), and the aerobic condition may be maintained by introducing oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas mixture to a culture. The culturing temperature may be maintained at 20 to 450 C, or 25 to 400 C, and it may be cultured for about 10 to 160 hours, but not limited thereto. The L-amino acid produced by the culturing may be secreted to a medium or remain in cells. 
 The medium usable in the culturing may individually use one or more kinds 
 selected from the group consisting of sugar and carbohydrate (e.g.: glucose, sucrose, 
 lactose, fructose, maltose, molasse, starch and cellulose), oil and fat (e.g.: soybean oil, 
 sunflower oil, peanut oil and coconut oil), fatty acid (e.g.: palmitic acid, stearic acid and 
 linoleic acid), alcohol (e.g.: glycerol and ethanol), organic acid (e.g.: acetic acid), and the 
 like, or mix and use two kinds or more of them, as a carbon source, but not limited 
 thereto. As a nitrogen source, one or more kinds selected from the group consisting of 
 nitrogen-containing organic compounds (e.g.: peptone, yeast extract, meet juice, malt 
 extract, corn steep liquid, soybean flower and urea), inorganic compounds (e.g.: 
 ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate 
 and ammonium nitrate), and the like may be used individually or in a mixture of two or 
 more of them, but not limited thereto. As a phosphorus source, one or more kinds selected 
 from the group consisting of potassium dihydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen 
 phosphate, sodium-containing salts corresponding thereto, and the like may be used 
 individually or in a mixture of two or more of them, but not limited thereto. In addition, the medium may comprise an essential growth promoting substance such as other metal salts (e.g.: magnesium sulfate or iron sulfate), amino acid and/or vitamins. 
 The recovering L-amino acid may be collecting desired amino acid from a medium, 
 culture solution or microorganism, using a known appropriate method in the art according 
 to the culturing method. For example, the revering may be performed by one or more 
 methods selected from centrifugation, filtering, anion exchange chromatography, 
 crystallization, HPLC, and the like. The method for recovering L-amino acid may 
 additionally comprise purification before, simultaneously, or after that. 
 [ADVANTAGEOUS EFFECTS] 
 In the present description, a technology increasing exporting ability and/or 
 productivity of L-amino acid of a microorganism is provided, and for this, a foreign protein 
 whose exporting ability of L-amino acid is newly discovered, and a technology capable of 
 improving productivity of L-amino acid compared to a parent strain, by introducing the 
 foreign protein to a microorganism are provided. 
 [MODE FOR INVENTION] 
 Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in more detail by examples, 
 but they are illustrative only, and are not intended to limit the scope of the present 
 invention. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the examples described below may 
 be modified without departing from the essential gist of the invention. 
 Example 1: L-lysine exporting gene search and selection 
 In order to search an exporting gene with high L-lysine exporting activity 
 compared to a L-lysine exporter (lysE, Ncgl1214) inherently possessed by a Genus 
 Corynebacterium microorganism, RPS-BLAST searching using NCBI CDD (Common 
 Domain Database) and BLAST searching using KEGG Protein Database were performed. 
 Candidate proteins considered as membrane proteins capable of exporting L-lysine were 
 selected. 
 [Table 1] 
 L-lysine exporting membrane protein candidate group 
 No. Strain Protein registration Genome registration number number 1 Shewanella oneidensis MR-I WP_011072781.1 NC_004347.2 2 Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 WP_003854734.1 NC_003450.3 3 Aeromonas allosaccharophila WP_042063605.1 NZCDCB01000123 4 Bacillus pseudofirmus OF4 WP_012958260.1 NC_013791.2 5 Bacillus halodurans C-125 WP_010899078.1 NC_002570.2 6 Natrialba aegyptia WP_006666837.1 NZ_AOIP01000039.1 7 Haloquadratum walsbyi WP_011571763.1 NC_008212.1 8 Thermotoga maritima MSB8 WP_004083139.1 NC_000853.1 9 Pyrodictium delaneyi WP_055407773.1 NZ_CP013011.1 10 Bacteroides coprophilus WP_008140089.1 NZ EQ973631.1 11 Shewanella atlantica HAW-EB5 WP_126504868.1 NZRXNVO1000002.1 
 Example 2: Production of foreign membrane protein gene-introduced vector 
 The membrane protein derived from Shewanella atlantica (Sat) selected in 
 Example 1 has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 The information (accession 
 number NZRXNVO1000002.1) of genes encoding the membrane protein and 
 surrounding nucleic acid sequences was obtained from U.S. National Institutes of Health 
 (NIH GenBank). DNA synthesis was performed, based on the corresponding gene 
 sequence (Cosmo genetech, Korea). To amplify genes, PCR (SogTM Pfu-X DNA 
 polymerase) was performed using the synthesized DNA as a template and primers (Table 
 2) of SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4 (Table 3). As a result, a gene fragment of 639 bp including 
 the gene (SEQ ID NO: 2) of 609 bp was obtained. 
 [Table 2] 
 Primer sequence 
 No. Name DNA sequence (5'->3') SEQ ID NO: 3 Sat-F TAGAGGAGACACAACATGCAGGCATTTATTCAGGG SEQ ID NO: 4 Sat-R TAGATGTCGGGCCCATTACAAGTAAGGCCATAACAA SEQ ID NO: 5 PgapA-F AATGAGTTCCTCGAGAAACGACCGAGCCTATTGGG SEQ ID NO: 6 PgapA-R TAAATGCCTGCATGTTGTGTCTCCTCTAAAGATTG SEQ ID NO: 7 pDZTn-1 ACGACGCTGGTATTTCTCCC SEQ ID NO: 8 pDZTn-2 TGATTGTCGATATGACCGGG 
 [Table 3] 
 PCR performance condition 
 Stage Temperature Time Initialization 95 °C 2 minutes 
 Denaturation 95 °C 20 seconds 
 Annealing 62 °C 40 seconds 
 Elongation 72 °C 0.5-1 minute 
 Post Elongation 72 °C 5 minutes 
 To secure the gapA promoter derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR 
 (SolgTM Pfu-X DNA polymerase) was performed using genomic DNA of 
 Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 13032 as a template and primers (Table 2) of SEQ 
 ID NOs: 5 and 6 (Table 3). The amplified gapA promoter site and the obtained Shewanella 
 atlantica-derived gene fragment and the vector pDZTn cut with Ndel restriction enzyme 
 (Korean Patent No. 10-1126041) were connected using Gibson Assembly (DG Gibson et 
 al., NATURE METHODS, VOL.6 NO.5, MAY 2009, NEBuilder HiFi DNA Assembly Master 
 Mix) method, and then transformed to E. coli DH5a, and smeared in a LB solid medium 
 including kanamycin (25 mg/I). To select a colony transformed with the vector in which 
 the desired gene and pDZTn were connected, PCR was performed using primers of SEQ 
 ID NOs: 7 and 8. A plasmid was obtained using a commonly known plasmid extraction method from the selected colony, and this plasmid was named pDZTn-PgapA-Sat. 
 Example 3: Production of foreign membrane protein-introduced strain 
 After transforming Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11016P strain producing 
 L-lysine (Korean Patent No. 10-0159812) using the produced pDZTn-PgapA-Sat vector 
 by electroporation (Appl. Microbiol.Biotechnol. (1999) 52:541-545), through a secondary 
 cross process, a strain in which PgapA-Sat was inserted between the transposon genes 
 was obtained. Using primers (Table 4) of SEQ ID NO: 9 and SEQ ID NO: 10 capable of 
 amplifying adjacent sites including the position in which the corresponding gene was 
 inserted, PCR and sequencing were performed, and the corresponding gene 
 manipulation was confirmed. The strain obtained in this way was named Corynebacterium 
 glutamicum KCCM11016P::PgapA-Sat. 
 [Table 4] 
 Primer sequence 
 No. Name DNA sequence SEQ ID NO: 9 Tn-1 TAAGGCACCGCAGAATGTAG SEQ ID NO: 10 Tn-2 TAGGACTCACCATCACCGGC 
 Example 4: Comparison of L-amino acid productivity in foreign membrane 
 protein-introduced KCCM11016P strain 
 The microbial cell amount, glucose consumption ability and amino acid 
 productivity were compared, by culturing the KCCM11016P::PgapA-Sat strain and the 
 control group KCCM11016P by the following method. 
 At first, each strain was inoculated in a 250 ml corner-baffled flask containing a 
 25 ml seed medium, and cultured with shaking at 30 0C for 20 hours at 200 rpm. The seed 
 culture solution of 1 ml was inoculated in a 250 ml corner-baffled flask containing a 24 ml 
 production medium, and cultured with shaking at 37C for 42 hours at 200 rpm. After the 
 end of culturing, the yield of L-amino acid was measured by HPLC. The experiment was 
 repeated 3 times, and the culture result (average value) was shown in Table 5. 
 <Seed medium (pH 7.0)> 
 Glucose 20 g, peptone 10 g, yeast extract 5 g, urea 1.5 g, KH2PO4 4 g, K2HPO4 
 8g, MgSO4-7H2O 0.5 g, biotin 0.1 mg, thiamine HCI 1 mg, calcium-pantothenic acid 22 
 mg, nicotinamide 2 mg (based on distilled water 1 liter) 
 <Production medium (pH 7.0)> 
 Glucose 45 g, (NH4)2SO4 15 g, soybean protein 10 g, molasse 10 g, KH2PO4 0.55 
 g, MgSO4-7H2O 0.6 g, biotin 0.9 mg, thiamine hydrochloride 4.5 mg, calcium-pantothenic 
 acid 4.5 mg, nicotinamide 30 mg, MnSO4 9 mg, FeSO4 9 mg, ZnSO4 0.45 mg, CuSO4 
 0.45 mg, CaCO3 30 g (based on distilled water 1 liter). 
 [Table 5] 
 L-amino acid productivity comparison (KCCM11016P) 
 Strain OD562 Consumed Lysine Arginine glucose concentration concentration (g/L) (g/L) (mg/L) KCCM11016P 51 50 12.1 24.2 KCCM11016P::PgapA- 40.5 50 13.2 26.8 Sat The KCCM11016P::PgapA-Sat strain (CorynebacteriumglutamicumCA03-1486) 
 was internationally deposited to Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an 
 international depository authority under the Budapest Treaty on October 29, 2020 and was given an accession number as KCCM 12828P. 
 Example 5: Comparison of L-amino acid productivity in foreign membrane 
 protein-introduced KCCM10770P strain 
 A strain in which PgapA-Sat gene was inserted on the transposon position on the 
 genome of Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM10770P (Korean Patent No. 10-0924065) 
 strain was obtained using the method described in Example 3. The strain obtained in this 
 way was named Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM10770P::PgapA-Sat. 
 By culturing the KCCM10770P::PgapA-Sat strain and the control group 
 KCCM10770P, the microbial cell amount, glucose consumption ability and amino acid 
 productivity were compared (See Example 4 for evaluation method). The experiment was 
 repeated 3 times, and the culture result (average value) was shown in Table 6. 
 [Table 6] 
 L-amino acid productivity comparison (KCCM10770P) 
 Strain OD562 Consume Lysine Arginine glucose (g/L) yield (g/L) concentration (mg/L) KCCM10770P 70.3 50 8.3 16.6 KCCM10770P::PgapA- 58.8 50 9.8 20.1 Sat As shown in Table 6, the KCCM10770P::PgapA-Sat strain showed the increased 
 amino acid productivity compared to the control strain KCCM10770P. 
 Example 6: Comparison of L-amino acid productivity in foreign membrane 
 protein-introduced CJ3P strain 
 A strain in which PgapA-Sat gene was inserted was obtained using the method described in Example 3 on the transposon position on the genome of the 
 Corynebacterium glutamicum CJ3P(US 9556463 B2) strain having the L-lysine 
 productivity by introducing 3 kinds of mutants [pyc(P458S), hom(V59A), lysC(T3111)] into 
 a wild type strain. The strain obtained in this way was named Corynebacterium 
 glutamicum CJ3P::PgapA-Sat. 
 By culturing the CJ3P::PgapA-Sat strain and the control group CJ3P, the microbial 
 cell amount, glucose consumption ability and amino acid productivity were compared 
 (See Example 4 for evaluation method). The experiment was repeated 3 times, and the 
 culture result (average value) was shown in Table 7. 
 [Table 7] 
 L-amino acid productivity comparison (CJ3P) 
 Strain OD562 Consume Lysine yield Arginine glucose (g/L) (g/L) concentration (mg/L) CJ3P 75.5 50 3.4 53.4 CJ3P::PgapA-Sat 69.7 50 4.5 78.2 As shown in Table 7, the CJ3P::PgapA-Sat strain showed the increased amino 
 acid productivity compared to the control strain CJ3P. 
 From the above description, those skilled in the art to which the present 
 application pertains will understand that the present application may be implemented in 
 other specific forms without changing the technical spirit or essential characteristics 
 thereof. In this regard, it should be understood that the examples described above are 
 illustrative in all aspects and not restrictive. The scope of the present application should 
 be construed as including all changed or modified forms derived from the meaning and 
 scope of claims described below and equivalent concepts thereof rather than the above 
 detailed description. 
 [Accession Number] 
 Name of Depository Authority: Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM) 
 Accession number: KCCM12828BP 
 Date of Deposit: 20201029 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 INTERNATIONAL FORM 
 To. CJ CheilJedang Corporation CJ CHEILJEDANG CENTER, RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT 330, DONGHO-RO, issued pursuant to Rule 7.1 by the INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY JUNG-GU, SEOUL 100-400 identified at the bottom of this page REPUBLIC OF KOREA 
 I. IDENTIFICATION OF THE MICROORGANISM 
 Identification reference given by the Accession number given by the DEPOSITOR: INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY: Corynebacterium gluamicum CM03-1486 KCCM12828P 
 II. SCIENTIFIC DESCRIPTION AND/OR PROPOSED TAXONOMIC DESIGNATION 
 The microorganism identified under I above was accompanied by E a scientific description I a proposed taxononic designation% (Mark with a cross where applicable) 
 IL RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE 
 This International Depositary Authority accepts the microorganism identified under I above, which was received by it on October. 29. 2020 (date of the original deposit).' 
 IV. RECEIPT OF REQUEST FOR CONVERSION 
 The microorganism identified under I above was received by this International Depositary Authority on (date of the original deposit) and a request to convert the original deposit to a deposit under the Budapest Treaty was received by it on (date of receipt of request for conversion). 
 V. INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY 
 Name : Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms Signature(s) of person(s) having the power to represent the International Depositary Address :Yurim B/D Authority or of authorize n 45, Hongjenae-2ga-gil Daflctbr Seodaemun-gu Date:October.29. 2020. SEOUL 03641 Republic of Korea .J.I 
 Where Rule 6.4(d) applies, such date is the date on which the status of inte aowefi thority was acquired. 
 Form BP/4 (sole page) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
