
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PREPHENATE DEHYDRATASE VARIANT AND METHOD OF PRODUCING BRANCHED-CHAIN AMINO ACIDS USING THE SAME 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present disclosure relates to a prephenate dehydratase variant, and a method of producing branched-chain amino acids using the same. 
 Description of the Related Art L-Amino acids are basic structural units of proteins and used as important materials for pharmaceutical raw materials and food additives, animal feeds, nutrients, pesticides, bactericides, etc. Therefore, industrial production of amino acids has become an economically important industrial process. Various studies have been made for efficiently producing amino acids, for example, efforts for developing microorganisms producing amino acids with high efficiency or a fermentation process technology. Specifically, target material specific approaches have been developed, such as increasing the expression of genes encoding enzymes involved in amino acid biosynthesis or removing genes unnecessary for amino acid biosynthesis in the strains of the genus Corynebacterium (U.S. Patent No. 9109242 B2, U.S. Patent No. 8030036 B2). In addition to these methods, a method of deleting a gene not involved in amino acid production, and a method of deleting a gene whose specific function in amino acid production is not known are also utilized. 
 Branched-chain amino acids refer to the three amino acids valine, leucine, and isoleucine, and are known to be mainly metabolized in muscles and to be used as an energy source during activity. As branched-chain amino acids are known to have an important role in maintaining muscles and increasing muscle mass during activity, their consumption is increasing. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present disclosure is to provide a prephenate dehydratase variant, in which an amino acid corresponding to position 182 from the N-terminus of an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 is substituted with another amino acid. Another object of the present disclosure is to provide a polynucleotide encoding the variant and a vector including the same. Still another object of the present disclosure is to provide a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium, the microorganism including one or more of the variant, the polynucleotide, and the vector. Still another object of the present disclosure is to provide a method of producing branched-chain amino acids, the method including a step of culturing the microorganism in a medium. 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The present disclosure will be described in detail as follows. Meanwhile, each description and embodiment disclosed in this disclosure may also be applied to other descriptions and embodiments. That is, all combinations of various elements disclosed in this disclosure fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further, the scope of the present disclosure is not limited by the specific description described below. Further, those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the disclosure described herein. Further, these equivalents should be interpreted to fall within the present disclosure. 
 An aspect of the present disclosure provides a prephenate dehydratase variant, in which an amino acid corresponding to position 182 from the N-terminus of an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 is substituted with another amino acid. The prephenate dehydratase variant refers to a variant, in which an amino acid corresponding to the position 182 from the N-terminus of prephenate dehydratase of SEQ ID NO: 1 is substituted with another amino acid in a polypeptide having the prephenate dehydratase activity or in a prephenate dehydratase. 
 As used herein, the term "prephenate dehydratase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the following reaction. Prephenate <-* Phenylpyruvate + H20 + C02 
 The prephenate dehydratase of the present disclosure may be a prephenate dehydratase or a polypeptide having the prephenate dehydratase activity, to which a modification for preparing the prephenate dehydratase variant provided in the present disclosure is applied. Specifically, it may be a naturally occurring polypeptide or wild-type polypeptide, or a mature polypeptide thereof, and may include a variant thereof or a functional fragment thereof, but the prephenate dehydratase of the present disclosure may include any one without limitation, as long as it may be a parent of the prephenate dehydratase variant of the present disclosure. In the present disclosure, the prephenate dehydratase may be, but is not limited to, a polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1. In one embodiment, the prephenate dehydratase may be a polypeptide having about 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, %, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% or more sequence identity to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1, and any one is included within the scope of the prephenate dehydratase, as long as it has the activity identical or corresponding to the polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. The sequence of the prephenate dehydratase of the present disclosure may be obtained from GenBank of NCBI, which is a known database. Specifically, the prephenate dehydratase may be a polypeptide encoded by pheA gene, but is not limited thereto. As used herein, the "variant" refers to a polypeptide which has an amino acid sequence different from that of the variant before modification by conservative substitution and/or modification of one or more amino acids but maintains the functions or properties. Such a variant may generally be identified by modifying one or more amino acids of the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide and evaluating the properties of the modified polypeptide. In other words, the ability of the variant may be increased, unchanged, or decreased, as compared to that of the polypeptide before variation. Some variants may include variants in which one or more portions such as an N-terminal leader sequence or a transmembrane domain have been removed. Other variants may include variants in which a portion of the N- and/or C-terminus has been removed from the mature protein. The term "variant" may be used interchangeably with terms such as modification, modified polypeptide, modified protein, mutant, mutein, and divergent, and is not limited thereto as long as it is a term used with the meaning of variation. Further, the variant may include deletions or additions of amino acids that have minimal effect on the properties and secondary structure of the polypeptide. For example, a signal (or leader) sequence that is co-translationally or post translationally involved in the protein translocation may be conjugated to the N terminus of the variant. Further, the variant may be conjugated with other sequences or linkers so as to be identified, purified, or synthesized. The variant provided in the present disclosure may be the prephenate dehydratase variant in which the amino acid corresponding to position 182 from the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 is substituted with another amino acid, but is not limited thereto. The amino acid corresponding to position 182 from the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 may be arginine. The variant provided in the present disclosure may include a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to position 182 from the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 with another amino acid other than arginine, but is not limited thereto. The "another amino acid" is not limited as long as it is an amino acid different from the amino acid before substitution. On the other hand, when expressed as being 'substituted with a specific amino acid' in the present disclosure, it is obvious that the amino acid is substituted with an amino acid different from the amino acid before substitution, even though it is not separately indicated that the amino acid is substituted with a different amino acid. In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may be a variant, in which the amino acid corresponding to position 182 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, which is a reference protein, is substituted with an amino acid different from the amino acid before substitution, among hydrophobic amino acids or aliphatic amino acids. Specifically, the variant may be a variant in which the amino acid corresponding to position 182 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 is substituted with one amino acid of hydrophobic (non-polar) amino acids or aliphatic amino acids. The aliphatic amino acid may be, for example, an amino acid selected from the group consisting of glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine, but is not limited thereto. The hydrophobic (non-polar) amino acid may be, for example, an amino acid selected from the group consisting of glycine, methionine, alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, but is not limited thereto. 
 In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may be a variant, in which the amino acid corresponding to position 182 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 is substituted with an amino acid different from the amino acid before substitution, among small-size amino acids, but is not limited thereto. As used herein, the term "small-size amino acid" includes glycine, alanine, serine, threonine, cysteine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, and asparagine, which are relatively small amino acids among 20 amino acids, and specifically, it may refer to glycine, alanine, serine, threonine, cysteine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, and proline, but is not limited thereto. More specifically, it may refer to glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, serine, and threonine, for example, alanine, serine, glycine, but is not limited thereto. More specifically, in the variant of the present disclosure, substitution with another amino acid may be substitution with alanine, but is not limited thereto. As used herein, the term "corresponding to" refers to amino acid residues at positions listed in the polypeptide, or amino acid residues that are similar, identical, or homologous to those listed in the polypeptide. Identifying the amino acid at the corresponding position may be determining a specific amino acid in a sequence that refers to a specific sequence. As used herein, "corresponding region" generally refers to a similar or corresponding position in a related protein or a reference protein. For example, an arbitrary amino acid sequence is aligned with SEQ ID NO: 1, and based on this, each amino acid residue of the amino acid sequence may be numbered with reference to the amino acid residue corresponding to the amino acid residue of SEQ ID NO: 1. For example, a sequence alignment algorithm as described in the present disclosure may determine the position of an amino acid or the position at which modification such as substitution, insertion, or deletion occurs through comparison with that in a query sequence (also referred to as a "reference sequence"). 
 For such alignments, for example, the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm (Needleman and Wunsch, 1970, J. Mol. Biol. 48: 443-453), the Needleman program of EMBOSS package (EMBOSS: The European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite, Rice et al., 2000, Trends Genet. 16: 276-277) and the like may be used, but are not limited thereto, and a sequence alignment program, a pairwise sequence comparison algorithm, etc., known in the art, may be appropriately used. 
 In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may have about %, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% or more sequence identity to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1, in which the amino acid corresponding to position 182 of SEQ ID NO: 1 is substituted with another amino acid. In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may include an amino acid sequence having at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.7% or 99.9% or more homology or identity to an amino acid sequence described by SEQ ID NO: 5. Specifically, the variant of the present disclosure may have, comprise, or consist of the amino acid sequence described by SEQ ID NO: 5, or may essentially consist of the amino acid sequence. In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may include an amino acid sequence having alanine as an amino acid corresponding to position 182, based on the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, and having at least %, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.7% or 99.9% or more homology or identity to the amino acid sequence described by SEQ ID NO: 5. Further, it is apparent that variants having amino acid sequences in which some sequences are deleted, modified, substituted, conservatively substituted, or added are also included in the scope of the present disclosure as long as the amino acid sequences have such homology or identity and exhibit efficacy corresponding to that of the variant of the present disclosure. 
 For example, the variant may include those having addition or deletion of a sequence that do not alter the function of the variant of the present disclosure, at the N-terminus, C-terminus, and/or inside of the amino acid sequence, or a naturally occurring mutation, a silent mutation, or a conservative substitution. The "conservative substitution" means substitution of one amino acid with another amino acid having similar structural and/or chemical properties. Such an amino acid substitution may generally occur based on similarity in the polarity, charge, solubility, hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, and/or amphipathic nature of residues. Usually, conservative substitution may hardly affect or not affect activity of proteins or polypeptides. 
 As used herein, the term 'homology' or 'identity' means the degree of similarity between two given amino acid sequences or base sequences and may be expressed as a percentage. The terms 'homology and identity' may often be used interchangeably. The sequence homology or identity of a conserved polynucleotide or polypeptide is determined by standard alignment algorithms, and the default gap penalty established by a program used may be used together. Substantially, homologous or identical sequences are generally capable of being hybridized with the entirety or a part of the sequence under moderately or highly stringent conditions. It is apparent that hybridization also includes hybridization of a polynucleotide with a polynucleotide including a general codon or a codon in consideration of codon degeneracy. Whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have homology, similarity, or identity may be determined using known computer algorithms such as the "FASTA" program, for example, using default parameters as in Pearson et al (1988) [Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 85]: 2444. Alternatively, the homology, similarity, or identity may be determined using Needleman-Wunsch algorithm (Needleman and Wunsch, 1970, J. Mol. Biol. 48: 443-453) as performed in the 
 Needleman program of the EMBOSS package (EMBOSS: The European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite, Rice et al., 2000, Trends Genet. 16: 276 277) (version 5.0.0 or later) (including GCG program package (Devereux, J., et al., Nucleic Acids Research 12: 387 (1984)), BLASTP, BLASTN, FASTA (Atschul, [S.] 
 [F.,] [ET AL, J MOLEC BIOL 215]: 403 (1990); Guide to Huge Computers, Martin J. Bishop, [ED.,] Academic Press, San Diego,1994, and [CARILLO ETA/.](1988) SIAM J Applied Math 48: 1073). For example, BLAST of the National Center for Biotechnology Information or ClustalW may be used to determine the homology, similarity, or identity. The homology, similarity, or identity of polynucleotides or polypeptides may be determined by comparing sequence information using, for example, a GAP computer program such as Needleman et al. (1970), J Mol Biol. 48:443, as announced in, for example, Smith and Waterman, Adv. Apple. Math (1981) 2:482. In summary, the GAP program may be defined as the value acquired by dividing the number of similarly aligned symbols (namely, nucleotides or amino acids) by the total number of symbols in the shorter of two sequences. The default parameters for the GAP program may include (1) a binary comparison matrix (including values of 1 for identity and 0 for non-identity) and a weighted comparison matrix of Gribskov et al (1986) Nucl. Acids Res. 14: 6745 (or EDNAFULL (EMBOSS version of NCBI NUC4.4) substitution matrix) as disclosed in Schwartz and Dayhoff, eds., Atlas Of Protein Sequence And Structure, National Biomedical Research Foundation, pp. 353-358 (1979); (2) a penalty of 3.0 for each gap and an additional 0.10 penalty for each symbol in each gap (or gap opening penalty of 10, gap extension penalty of 0.5); and (3) no penalty for end gaps. In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may have the prephenate dehydratase activity. In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may have an activity to increase the productivity of branched-chain amino acids, as compared to the wild-type or unmodified prephenate dehydratase. 
 In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may have an activity to decrease the production level of by-products in the branched-chain amino acid production pathway, as compared to the wild-type or unmodified prephenate dehydratase. In one embodiment, the variant of the present disclosure may have a weakened activity, as compared to the wild-type or unmodified prephenate dehydratase, but is not limited thereto. 
 Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a polynucleotide encoding the variant of the present disclosure. As used herein, the term "polynucleotide" is a DNA or RNA strand having a certain length or more as a polymer of nucleotides in which nucleotide monomers are connected in a long chain by covalent bonds, and more specifically, it means a polynucleotide fragment encoding the variant. The polynucleotide encoding the variant of the present disclosure may include a nucleotide sequence encoding the amino acid sequence described by SEQ ID NO: 5. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure may have or include a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6. Further, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure may consist of or essentially consist of the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6. In the polynucleotide of the present disclosure, various modifications may be made in the coding region as long as the amino acid sequence of the variant of the present disclosure is not changed, in consideration of codon degeneracy or codons preferred in organisms that are intended to express the variant of the present disclosure. Specifically, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure may have or include a nucleotide sequence having 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, 90% or more, 95% or more, 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, and less than 100% homology or identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6, or may consist of or essentially consist of a nucleotide sequence having 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, 90% or more, 95% or more, 
 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, and less than 100% homology or identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6, but is not limited thereto. In this regard, in the sequence having such homology or identity, a codon encoding the amino acid corresponding to position 182 of SEQ ID NO: 6 may be one of codon encoding alanine. Further, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure may include a probe that may be prepared from a known gene sequence, for example, a sequence without limitation as long as it is a sequence that may hybridize with a complementary sequence to the entirety or a part of the polynucleotide sequence of the present disclosure under stringent conditions. The "stringent conditions" mean conditions that enable specific hybridization between polynucleotides. These conditions are specifically described in documents (see J. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory press, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, 1989; F.M. Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 9.50 9.51, 11.7-11.8). Examples thereof include conditions in which polynucleotides having higher homology or identity, namely, polynucleotides having 70% or more, % or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, 90% or more, 95% or more, 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, or 99% or more homology or identity are hybridized with each other while polynucleotides having lower homology or identity are not hybridized with each other, or washing conditions for common Southern hybridization, in which washing is performed once, specifically, two to three times at a salt concentration and temperature equivalent to 60 0C, 1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, specifically 60 0C, 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, more specifically, 680 C, 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS. Hybridization requires that two nucleic acids have complementary sequences, although mismatches between bases are allowed depending on the stringency of hybridization. The term "complementary" is used to describe the relation between nucleotide bases capable of being hybridized with each other. 
 For example, with regard to DNA, adenine is complementary to thymine and cytosine is complementary to guanine. Therefore, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure may also include substantially similar nucleic acid sequences as well as isolated nucleic acid fragments that are complementary to the entire sequence. Specifically, a polynucleotide having homology or identity to the polynucleotide of the present disclosure may be detected using hybridization conditions including a hybridization step at a Tm value of 550C and the above described conditions. The Tm value may be 600C, 630C, or 650C, but is not limited thereto, and may be appropriately adjusted by those skilled in the art according to the purpose. The appropriate stringency to hybridize the polynucleotide depends on the length and degree of complementarity of the polynucleotide, and the variables are well known in the art (e.g., J. Sambrook et al., supra). 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides a vector including the polynucleotide of the present disclosure. The vector may be an expression vector for expressing the polynucleotide in host cells, but is not limited thereto. The "vector" of the present disclosure refers to a DNA construct including a polynucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide of interest operably linked to a suitable expression control region (or expression control sequence) so that the polypeptide of interest may be expressed in a suitable host. The expression control region may include a promoter capable of initiating transcription, any operator sequence for regulating the transcription, a sequence encoding a suitable mRNA ribosome binding site, and a sequence regulating termination of transcription and translation. The vector may be transformed into a suitable host cell and then replicated or function independently of the host genome, or may be integrated into the genome itself. 
 The vector used in the present disclosure is not particularly limited, but any vector known in the art may be used. Examples of commonly used vectors may include natural or recombinant plasmids, cosmids, viruses, and bacteriophages. For example, pWE15, M13, MBL3, MBL4, IXII, ASHII, APII, t1, t1l, Charon4A, Charon21A, or the like may be used as a phage vector or a cosmid vector. pDC system, pBR system, pUC system, pBluescript II system, pGEM system, pTZ system, pCL system, pET system, or the like may be used as a plasmid vector. Specifically, pDC, pDCM2, pACYC177, pACYC184, pCL, pECCG117, pUC19, pBR322, pMW118, pCC1BAC vector or the like may be used. For example, a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide of interest may be inserted into a chromosome through a vector for intracellular chromosome insertion. Insertion of the polynucleotide into the chromosome may be performed by any method known in the art, for example, homologous recombination, but is not limited thereto. The vector may further include a selection marker for identifying the chromosome insertion. The selection marker is for selecting the cells transformed with vectors, i.e., for identifying the insertion of a nucleic acid molecule of interest, and markers that confer selectable phenotypes such as drug resistance, auxotrophy, resistance to cytotoxic agents, or expression of surface polypeptides may be used. In an environment treated with a selective agent, only cells expressing the selection marker survive or exhibit other phenotypic traits, and thus transformed cells may be selected. As used herein, the term "transformation" means that a vector including a polynucleotide encoding a target polypeptide is introduced into a host cell or a microorganism so that the polypeptide encoded by the polynucleotide may be expressed in the host cell. The transformed polynucleotide may be located by being inserted into the chromosome of the host cell or located outside the chromosome as long as it may be expressed in the host cell. Further, the polynucleotide includes DNA and RNA encoding a polypeptide of interest. The polynucleotide may be introduced in any form as long as it may be introduced into a host cell and then expressed. For example, the polynucleotide may be introduced into a host cell in the form of an expression cassette, which is a gene construct containing all elements required for self-expression. The expression cassette may usually include a promoter operably linked to the polynucleotide, a transcription termination signal, a ribosome binding site, and a translation termination signal. The expression cassette may be in the form of an expression vector capable of self-replicating. Further, the polynucleotide may be introduced into a host cell in its own form and operably linked to a sequence required for expression in the host cell, but is not limited thereto. Further, as used herein, the term "operably linked" means that the polynucleotide sequence is functionally linked to a promoter sequence that initiates and mediates transcription of the polynucleotide encoding the variant of interest of the present disclosure. 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium, the microorganism including the variant of the present disclosure, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure, or the vector of the present disclosure. The microorganism of the present disclosure may include the polypeptide variant of the present disclosure, the polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide, or the vector including the polynucleotide of the present disclosure. As used herein, the term "microorganism" or "strain" includes all wild-type microorganisms or naturally or artificially genetically modified microorganisms, and it may be a microorganism in which a specific mechanism is weakened or strengthened due to insertion of a foreign gene or an activity enhancement or inactivation of an endogenous gene, and may be a microorganism including a genetic modification for the production of the polypeptide, protein, or product of interest. 
 The strain of the present disclosure may be a strain including any one or more of the variant of the present disclosure, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure, and the vector including the polynucleotide of the present disclosure; a strain modified to express the variant of the present disclosure or the polynucleotide of the present disclosure; a strain (e.g., recombinant strain) expressing the variant of the present disclosure or the polynucleotide of the present disclosure; or a strain (e.g., recombinant strain) having the activity of the variant of the present disclosure, but is not limited thereto. The strain of the present disclosure may be a strain having the branched chain amino acid-producing ability. The strain of the present disclosure may be a microorganism naturally having the prephenate dehydratase or branched-chain amino acid-producing ability, or a microorganism prepared by introducing the variant of the present disclosure or the polynucleotide encoding the same (or the vector including the polynucleotide) into the parent strain having no prephenate dehydratase or no branched-chain amino acid-producing ability, and/or by providing the branched chain amino acid-producing ability for the parent strain, but is not limited thereto. For example, the strain of the present disclosure may be a cell or microorganism expressing the variant of the present disclosure by transforming with the polynucleotide of the present disclosure or the vector including the polynucleotide encoding the variant of the present disclosure, and with respect to the objects of the present disclosure, the strain of the present disclosure may include all microorganisms capable of producing branched-chain amino acids by including the variant of the present disclosure. For example, the strain of the present disclosure may be a recombinant strain having the enhanced branched chain amino acid-producing ability, in which the prephenate dehydratase variant is expressed by introducing the polynucleotide encoding the variant of the present disclosure into a natural wild-type or branched-chain amino acid-producing microorganism. The recombinant strain having the enhanced branched-chain amino acid-producing ability may be a microorganism having the enhanced branched-chain amino acid-producing ability, as compared to the natural wild-type or prephenate dehydratase unmodified microorganism (i.e., microorganism expressing the wild-type prephenate dehydratase), but is not limited thereto. For example, the prephenate dehydratase unmodified microorganism, which is a target strain for comparing whether or not the branched-chain amino acid-producing ability is increased, may be a Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 strain. For another example, the prephenate dehydratase unmodified microorganism, which is a target strain for comparing whether or not the branched-chain amino acid-producing ability is increased, may be CJL-8109, KCCM12739P(CA10-3101), KCCM11201P, but is not limited thereto. For example, the recombinant strain may have the branched-chain amino acid-producing ability of about 1% or more, and specifically, about 3% or about 5% higher than that of the parent strain before modification or the unmodified microorganism, but is not limited thereto, as long as it has an increased amount of + value, as compared to the production of the parent strain before modification or the unmodified microorganism. For another example, the recombinant strain may have about 50% or less, specifically, about 30% or less, or about 10% or less of the by-products generated in the branched-chain amino acid production pathway, as compared to the parent strain before modification or the unmodified microorganism, but is not limited thereto. The term "about" includes all ranges of 0.5, 0.4, 0.3, 0.2, 0.1, etc., and includes all numerical values of the ranges equivalent to or similar to the numerical value following the term "about", but is not limited thereto. 
 As used herein, the term "branched-chain amino acid" refers to an amino acid having a branched alkyl group in the side chain, and includes valine, leucine, and isoleucine. Specifically, in the present disclosure, the branched-chain amino acid may be L-branched-chain amino acid, and the L-branched-chain amino acid may be one or more selected from L-valine, L-leucine, and L-isoleucine, but is not limited thereto. In the present disclosure, by-products generated in the branched-chain amino acid production pathway refer to substances other than branched-chain amino acids, specifically, aromatic amino acids, and more specifically, one or more selected from L-tyrosine and L-phenylalanine, but are not limited thereto. 
 As the term "unmodified microorganism" does not exclude strains including mutations that may occur naturally in microorganisms, and may be a wild-type strain or a natural strain itself or may be a strain before the trait is changed by genetic variation due to natural or artificial factors. For example, the unmodified microorganism may be a strain into which the prephenate dehydratase variant of the present disclosure is not introduced or has not yet been introduced. The term "unmodified microorganism" may be used interchangeably with "strain before being modified", "microorganism before being modified", "unvaried strain", "unmodified strain", "unvaried microorganism", or "reference microorganism". In one embodiment, the microorganism of the present disclosure may be Corynebacterium glutamicum, Corynebacterium stationis, Corynebacterium crudilactis, Corynebacterium deserti, Corynebacterium efficiens, Corynebacterium callunae, Corynebacterium singulare, Corynebacterium halotolerans, Corynebacterium striatum, Corynebacterium ammoniagenes, Corynebacterium pollutisoli, Corynebacterium imitans, Corynebacterium testudinoris, or Corynebacteriumflavescens. 
 The microorganism of the present disclosure may further include a variation to increase the branched-chain amino acid-producing ability. In one embodiment, the microorganism of the present disclosure may include a modification of the activity of one or more of isopropymalate synthase, homoserine dehydrogenase, threonine dehydratase, branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase, and citrate synthase. In one embodiment, the microorganism of the present disclosure may be a microorganism, in which the activity of one or more of isopropylmalate synthase, homoserine dehydrogenase, branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase, and threonine dehydratase is additionally enhanced. However, the microorganism is not limited to the above description, and those skilled in the art may appropriately select additional modifications included in the microorganism, according to the branched-chain amino acid to be produced. As used herein, the term "enhancement" of polypeptide activity means that the activity of a polypeptide is increased as compared to the intrinsic activity. The enhancement may be used interchangeably with terms such as activation, up-regulation, overexpression, increase, etc. Here, activation, enhancement, up regulation, overexpression, and increase may include both exhibiting activity that was not originally possessed and exhibiting improved activity, as compared to the intrinsic activity or activity before modification. The "intrinsic activity" means activity of a specific polypeptide originally possessed by a parent strain before change of the trait or an unmodified microorganism when the trait is changed by genetic variation due to natural or artificial factors. This may be used interchangeably with "activity before modification". The fact that the activity of a polypeptide is "enhanced", "up-regulated", "overexpressed", or "increased", as compared to the intrinsic activity, means that the activity of a polypeptide is improved, as compared to the activity and/or concentration (expression level) of a specific polypeptide originally possessed by a parent strain before change of the trait or an unmodified microorganism. The enhancement may be achieved through the introduction of a foreign polypeptide or the enhancement of intrinsic activity and/or concentration (expression level) of the polypeptide. The activity enhancement of a polypeptide may be confirmed by an increase in the degree of activity and the expression level of the corresponding polypeptide or in the amount of a product produced from the corresponding polypeptide. For the activity enhancement of the polypeptide, various methods well known in the art may be applied, and the method is not limited as long as the activity of the polypeptide of interest may be enhanced, as compared to that of the microorganism before being modified. Specifically, genetic engineering and/or protein engineering well known to those skilled in the art, which are routine methods of molecular biology, may be used, but the method is not limited thereto (e.g., Sitnicka et al. Functional Analysis of Genes. Advances in Cell Biology. 2010, Vol. 2. 1-16, Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning 2012, etc.). Specifically, the enhancement of the polypeptide of the present disclosure may be: 1) increase in the intracellular copy number of the polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide; 2) replacement of a gene expression regulatory region on a chromosome encoding the polypeptide with a sequence exhibiting strong activity; 3) modification of a start codon of a gene transcript encoding the polypeptide or a base sequence encoding a 5'-UTR region; 4) modification of the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide to enhance the activity of the polypeptide; 5) modification of the polynucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide to enhance the activity of the polypeptide (e.g., modification of the polynucleotide sequence of the polypeptide gene to encode the polypeptide that has been modified to enhance the activity of the polypeptide); 6) introduction of a foreign polypeptide exhibiting the activity of the polypeptide or a foreign polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide; 7) codon optimization of a polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide; 8) analysis of the tertiary structure of the polypeptide to select the exposed site and to perform modification or chemical modification of the exposed site; or 
 9) a combination of two or more selected from 1) to 8), but is not particularly limited thereto. 
 More specifically, 1) the increase in the intracellular copy number of the polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide may be performed by introducing a vector, which replicates and functions irrespective of a host cell and is operably linked to the polynucleotide encoding the corresponding polypeptide, into a host cell. Alternatively, the increase may be achieved by the introduction of one copy or two or more copies of the polynucleotide encoding the corresponding polypeptide into a chromosome of a host cell. The introduction into the chromosome may be performed by introducing a vector capable of inserting the polynucleotide into a chromosome of a host cell into the host cell, but is not limited thereto. The vector is as described above. 2) The replacement of a gene expression control region (or expression control sequence) on a chromosome encoding a polypeptide with a sequence exhibiting strong activity may be, for example, occurrence of variation in a sequence due to deletion, insertion, non-conservative or conservative substitution, a combination thereof, or replacement with a sequence exhibiting stronger activity so that the activity of the expression control region is further enhanced. The expression control region is not particularly limited thereto, but may include a promoter, an operator sequence, a sequence encoding a ribosome binding site, a sequence controlling the termination of transcription and translation, and the like. For example, the replacement may be to replace the original promoter with a strong promoter, but is not limited thereto. Examples of known strong promoters include cj1 to cj7 promoters (US Patent No. 7662943 B2), lac promoter, trp promoter, trc promoter, tac promoter, lambda phage PR promoter, PL promoter, tet promoter, gapA promoter, SPL7 promoter, SPL13(sm3) promoter (US Patent No. 10584338 B2), 02 promoter (US 
 Patent No. 10273491 B2), tkt promoter, yccA promoter, etc., but are not limited thereto. 3) The modification of a start codon of the gene transcript encoding the polypeptide or a base sequence encoding a 5'-UTR region may be, for example, substitution with a base sequence encoding another start codon having a higher polypeptide expression rate, as compared to an endogenous start codon, but is not limited thereto. 4) and 5) The modification of the amino acid sequence or polynucleotide sequence may be occurrence of variation in the sequence due to deletion, insertion, nonconservative or conservative substitution of an amino acid sequence of the polypeptide or a polynucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide, or a combination thereof, or replacement with an amino acid sequence or polynucleotide sequence modified to exhibit stronger activity or an amino acid sequence or polynucleotide sequence modified to be more active so that the activity of the polypeptide is enhanced, but is not limited thereto. The replacement may be specifically performed by inserting a polynucleotide into a chromosome by homologous recombination, but is not limited thereto. The vector used here may further include a selection marker for the confirmation of chromosome insertion. The selection marker is as described above. 6) The introduction of a foreign polynucleotide exhibiting the activity of the polypeptide may be the introduction of a foreign polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide exhibiting activity the same as or similar to that of the polypeptide into a host cell. The foreign polynucleotide is not limited in its origin or sequence as long as it exhibits activity the same as or similar to that of the polypeptide. The method used in the introduction may be performed by appropriately selecting a known transformation method by those skilled in the art. As the introduced polynucleotide is expressed in a host cell, a polypeptide may be produced, and the activity thereof may be increased. 
 7) The codon optimization of the polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide may be codon optimization of an endogenous polynucleotide so as to increase transcription or translation in a host cell or codon optimization of a foreign polynucleotide so as to perform optimized transcription and translation in a host cell. 8) The analysis of the tertiary structure of the polypeptide to select the exposed site and to perform modification or chemical modification of the exposed site may be, for example, to determine a template protein candidate according to the degree of similarity of the sequence by comparing the sequence information of a polypeptide to be analyzed with a database storing the sequence information of known proteins, to confirm the structure based on this, and to select and to modify or chemically modify the exposed portion to be modified or chemically modified. Such enhancement of the polypeptide activity may be an increase in the activity or concentration (expression level) of the corresponding polypeptide, based on the activity or concentration of the polypeptide expressed in a wild-type or a microbial strain before being modified, or an increase in the amount of a product produced from the corresponding polypeptide, but is not limited thereto. In the microorganism of the present disclosure, partial or entire modification of a polynucleotide may be induced by (a) homologous recombination using a vector for chromosome insertion in the microorganism or genome editing using engineered nuclease (e.g., CRISPR-Cas9) and/or (b) treatment with light such as ultraviolet rays and radiation and/or chemicals, but is not limited thereto. A method of modifying a part or the entirety of the gene may include a method using DNA recombination technology. For example, by introducing a nucleotide sequence or vector containing a nucleotide sequence homologous to the gene of interest into the microorganism to cause homologous recombination, a part or the entirety of the gene may be deleted. The introduced nucleotide sequence or vector may include a dominant selection marker, but is not limited thereto. 
 As used herein, the term "weakening" of activity of a polypeptide is a concept including both cases where the activity is decreased, as compared to the endogenous activity, or the activity is absent. The weakening may be used interchangeably with terms such as inactivation, deficiency, down-regulation, decrease, reduce, attenuation, etc. The weakening may also include a case where the activity of the polypeptide itself is decreased or eliminated due to variation of the polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide, etc., as compared to the activity of the polypeptide originally possessed by the microorganism, a case where the overall polypeptide activity level and/or concentration (expression level) in the cell is low due to inhibition of the expression of the gene of the polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide or by inhibition of translation into the polypeptide, as compared to that of the natural strain, a case where the polynucleotide is not expressed at all, and/or a case where the polypeptide activity is absent even when the polynucleotide is expressed. The "endogenous activity" means the activity of a specific polypeptide originally possessed by the parent strain before change of the trait or a wild-type or unmodified microorganism when the trait is changed by genetic variation due to natural or artificial factors. The endogenous activity may be used interchangeably with "activity before modification". The fact that the activity of a polypeptide is "inactivated, deficient, decreased, down-regulated, reduced, or attenuated" as compared to the endogenous activity means that the activity of a polypeptide is lowered, as compared to the activity of a specific polypeptide originally possessed by the parent strain before change of the trait or the unmodified microorganism. Such weakening of the activity of a polypeptide may be performed by any method known in the art, but the method is not limited thereto, and the weakening may be achieved by applying various methods well known in the art (e.g., Nakashima N et al., Bacterial cellular engineering by genome editing and gene silencing. Int J Mol Sci. 2014;15(2):2773-2793, Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning 2012, etc.). 
 Specifically, the weakening of the polypeptide of the present disclosure may be: 1) deletion of the entirety or a part of the gene encoding the polypeptide; 2) modification of an expression regulatory region (or expression regulatory sequence) to decrease expression of the gene encoding the polypeptide; 3) modification of an amino acid sequence constituting the polypeptide to eliminate or weaken the activity of the polypeptide (e.g., deletion/substitution/addition of one or more amino acids in the amino acid sequence); 4) modification of a gene sequence encoding the polypeptide to eliminate or weaken the activity of the polypeptide (e.g., deletion/substitution/addition of one or more nucleic acid bases in a nucleic acid base sequence of the polypeptide gene to encode the polypeptide that has been modified to eliminate or weaken the activity of the polypeptide); 5) modification of a start codon of a gene transcript encoding the polypeptide or a base sequence encoding a 5'-UTR region; 6) introduction of an antisense oligonucleotide (e.g., antisense RNA) that complementarily binds to the transcript of the gene encoding the polypeptide; 7) addition of a sequence complementary to a Shine-Dalgarno sequence in front of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the gene encoding the polypeptide in order to form a secondary structure to which ribosome cannot be attached; 8) addition of a promoter to be transcribed in the opposite direction to the 3' end of the open reading frame (ORF) of the gene sequence encoding the polypeptide (reverse transcription engineering, RTE); or 9) a combination of two or more selected from 1) to 8), but is not particularly limited thereto. 
 For example, 1) the deletion of a part or the entirety of the gene encoding the polypeptide may be removal of the entire polynucleotide encoding the intrinsic polypeptide of interest in the chromosome, replacement with a polynucleotide in which some nucleotides are deleted, or replacement with a marker gene. Further, 2) the modification of the expression regulatory region (or expression regulatory sequence) may be occurrence of variation in the expression regulatory region (or expression regulatory sequence) due to deletion, insertion, non-conservative or conservative substitution, or a combination thereof, or replacement with a sequence exhibiting weaker activity. The expression regulatory region includes a promoter, an operator sequence, a sequence encoding a ribosome binding site, and a sequence regulating the termination of transcription and translation, but is not limited thereto. Further, 3) the modification of a start codon of a gene transcript encoding the polypeptide or a base sequence encoding a 5'-UTR region may be, for example, substitution with a base sequence encoding another start codon having a lower polypeptide expression rate, as compared to an intrinsic start codon, but is not limited thereto. Further, 4) and 5) the modification of the amino acid sequence or polynucleotide sequence may be occurrence of variation in the sequence due to deletion, insertion, or non-conservative or conservative substitution of the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide or the polynucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide or a combination thereof, or replacement with an amino acid sequence or a polynucleotide sequence modified to exhibit weaker activity or an amino acid sequence or a polynucleotide sequence modified to be inactive so that the activity of the polypeptide is weakened, but is not limited thereto. For example, expression of the gene may be inhibited or weakened by introducing variation into the polynucleotide sequence and forming a stop codon, but is not limited thereto. Further, 6) the introduction of an antisense oligonucleotide (e.g., antisense RNA) that complementarily binds to the transcript of the gene encoding the polypeptide, may refer to documents, for example, [Weintraub, H. et al., Antisense-RNA as a molecular tool for genetic analysis, Reviews - Trends in Genetics, Vol. 1(1) 1986]. Further, 7) the addition of a sequence complementary to a Shine-Dalgarno sequence in front of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the gene encoding the polypeptide in order to form a secondary structure to which ribosome cannot be attached may be to make mRNA translation impossible or to slow down the mRNA translation rate. Further, 8) the addition of a promoter to be transcribed in the opposite direction to the 3' end of the open reading frame (ORF) of the gene sequence encoding the polypeptide (reverse transcription engineering, RTE) may be to weaken the activity by making an antisense nucleotide complementary to the transcript of the gene encoding the polypeptide. In the microorganism of the present disclosure, the variant, polynucleotide, vector, and branched-chain amino acids are as described in other aspects. 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method of producing branched-chain amino acids, the method including a step of culturing, in a medium, the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure. 
 As used herein, the term "culture" means growing the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure under appropriately controlled environmental conditions. The culture process of the present disclosure may be performed according to suitable medium and culture conditions known in the art. 
 Such a culture process may be easily adjusted and used by those skilled in the art according to the selected strain. Specifically, the culture may be a batch type, continuous type, and/or fed-batch type, but is not limited thereto. As used herein, the term "medium" means a mixed substance containing nutrients required to culture the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure as a main component, and the medium supplies nutrients and growth factors, including water, which are indispensable for survival and development. Specifically, as the medium and other culture conditions used for culture of the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure, any one may be used without particular limitation as long as it is a medium used for common culture of microorganisms. The microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure may be cultured in a common medium containing proper carbon sources, nitrogen sources, phosphorus sources, inorganic compounds, amino acids and/or vitamins, etc., while controlling the temperature, pH, etc. under aerobic conditions. Specifically, the culture medium for the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium may be found in the document ["Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology" by the American Society for Bacteriology (Washington D.C., USA, 1981)]. In the present disclosure, the carbon sources include carbohydrates such as glucose, saccharose, lactose, fructose, sucrose, maltose, etc.; sugar alcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, etc., organic acids such as pyruvic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, etc.; amino acids such as glutamic acid, methionine, lysine, etc.; and the like. Natural organic nutrients such as starch hydrolysate, molasses, blackstrap molasses, rice bran, cassava, sugarcane residue, and corn steep liquor may be used. Specifically, carbohydrates such as glucose and sterilized pretreated molasses (i.e., molasses converted to reducing sugar) may be used, and appropriate amounts of other carbon sources may be used in various manners without limitation. These carbon sources may be used alone or in combination of two or more thereof, but are not limited thereto. As the nitrogen sources, inorganic nitrogen sources such as ammonia, ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium acetate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium nitrate, etc.; and organic nitrogen sources such as amino acids such as glutamic acid, methionine, glutamine, etc., peptone, NZ-amine, meat extract, yeast extract, malt extract, corn steep liquor, casein hydrolysate, fish or decomposition products thereof, and skim soybean cake or decomposition products thereof, etc. may be used. These nitrogen sources may be used alone or in combination of two or more thereof, but are not limited thereto. The phosphorus sources may include monopotassium phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, or sodium-containing salts corresponding thereto. As the inorganic compounds, sodium chloride, calcium chloride, iron chloride, magnesium sulfate, iron sulfate, manganese sulfate, calcium carbonate, etc. may be used. In addition to these compounds, amino acids, vitamins and/or suitable precursors, etc. may be included. These components or precursors may be added to the medium batchwise or continuously, but is not limited thereto. Further, during the culture of the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure, pH of the medium may be adjusted by adding compounds such as ammonium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonia, phosphoric acid, or sulfuric acid to the medium in a proper manner. During the culture, foaming may be suppressed by using an antifoaming agent such as fatty acid polyglycol ester. Oxygen or oxygen-containing gas may be injected into the medium in order to maintain the aerobic state of the medium, or gas may not be injected or nitrogen, hydrogen, or carbon dioxide gas may be injected in order to maintain the anaerobic and microaerobic states, but is not limited thereto. 
 In the culture of the present disclosure, the culture temperature may be maintained at 200C to 450C, specifically, at 250C to 400C, and the microorganism may be cultured for about 10 hours to about 160 hours, but are not limited thereto. Branched-chain amino acids produced through the culture of the present disclosure may be secreted into the medium or may remain in the cells. The method of producing branched-chain amino acids of the present disclosure may further include a step of preparing the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure, a step of preparing a medium for culture of the strain, or a combination of these steps (in any order), for example, prior to the culture step. The method of producing branched-chain amino acids of the present disclosure may further include a step of recovering branched-chain amino acids from the medium according to the culture (the medium subjected to the culture) or from the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of the present disclosure. The recovery step may be further included after the culture step. The recovery may be to collect branched-chain amino acids of interest by way of a suitable method known in the art according to the method of culturing the microorganism of the present disclosure, for example, a batch, continuous, or fed batch culture method. For example, centrifugation, filtration, treatment with a crystallized protein precipitant (salting out), extraction, ultrasonic disintegration, ultrafiltration, dialysis, various forms of chromatography such as molecular sieve chromatography (gel filtration), adsorption chromatography, ion-exchange chromatography, and affinity chromatography, HPLC, or a combination thereof may be used. The branched chain amino acids of interest may be recovered from the medium or microorganism by way of a suitable method known in the art. Further, the method of producing branched-chain amino acids of the present disclosure may further include a purification step. The purification may be performed by way of a suitable method known in the art. For example, when the method of producing branched-chain amino acids of the present disclosure includes both the recovery step and the purification step, the recovery step and the purification step may be performed discontinuously (or continuously) regardless of the order, or may be performed simultaneously or by being combined into one step, but is not limited thereto. In the method of the present disclosure, the variant, polynucleotide, vector, microorganism and the like are as described in other aspects. 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides a composition for producing branched-chain amino acids, the composition including the variant of the present disclosure, the polynucleotide encoding the variant, the vector including the polynucleotide, or the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium including the polynucleotide of the present disclosure; a medium in which the microorganism has been cultured; or a combination of two or more thereof. The composition of the present disclosure may further include arbitrary suitable excipients to be commonly used in compositions for producing branched chain amino acids. Such excipients may be, for example, a preservative, a wetting agent, a dispersing agent, a suspending agent, a buffering agent, a stabilizer, or an isotonic agent, but are not limited thereto. In the composition of the present disclosure, the variant, polynucleotide, vector, strain, medium, branched chain amino acids, and the like are as described in other aspects. 
 Still another aspect of the present disclosure provides use of the microorganism including one or more of the prephenate dehydratase variant of the present disclosure; the polynucleotide encoding the prephenate dehydratase variant; and the vector including the polynucleotide, in the production of branched chain amino acids. In the use of the present disclosure, the variant, polynucleotide, vector, microorganism and the like are as described in other aspects. 
 Hereinafter, the present disclosure will be described in more detail with reference to Examples and Experimental Examples. However, these Examples and Experimental Examples are only for illustrating the present disclosure, and the scope of the present disclosure is not intended to be limited by these Examples and Experimental Examples. 
 Example 1: Discovery of pheA variation Example 1-1. Construction of vector including pheA To construct a pheA mutant library having a prephenate dehydratase activity, a recombinant vector including pheA was first constructed. To amplify pheA gene (SEQ ID NO: 2) encoding pheA protein (SEQ ID NO: 1, Uniprot ID: P10341) derived from the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR was performed using the chromosome of the wild-type strain Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 as a template and primers of SEQ ID NOS: 3 and 4 under conditions of 25 cycles of denaturation at 940C for 1 minute, annealing at 580C for 30 seconds, polymerization at 720C for 1 minute with Pfu DNA polymerase. The specific sequences of the used primers are listed in Table 1. The amplification product was cloned into E. coli vector pCR2.1 using a TOPO Cloning Kit (Invitrogen) to obtain 'pCR-pheA'. 
 [Table 1] SEQ ID NO. Sequence(5'->3') SEQ ID NO:3 TTGAGGTCCTTGGCTGG SEQ ID NO: 4 CGCAACACGATGGAGCTG 
 Example 1-2. Construction of pheA mutant library Based on the vector prepared in Example 1-1, a pheA mutant library was constructed using an error-prone PCR kit (clontech Diversify@ PCR Random Mutagenesis Kit). A PCR reaction was performed using SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ 
 ID NO: 4 as primers under conditions where 0 to 3 mutations could occur per 1000 bp. In detail, the PCR reaction was performed by pre-heating at 940C for 30 seconds, followed by 25 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds, and at 680C for 1 minute 30 seconds. The PCR product thus obtained was used as a megaprimer (50 to 125 ng), followed by 25 cycles of at 950C for 50 seconds and at 600C for 50 seconds, and at 680C for 12 minutes, and then treated with Dpnl, and transformed into E. coli DH5a by a heat shock method and spread on LB solid medium containing kanamycin (25 mg/L). 20 types of transformed colonies were selected, and plasmids were obtained, followed by sequence analysis. As a result, it was confirmed that variations were introduced at different positions with a frequency of 2 mutations/kb. About 20,000 transformed E. coli colonies were taken and plasmids were extracted, which was named 'pTOPO-pheA-library'. 
 Example 2: Evaluation of constructed library and Selection of variant Example 2-1. Selection of mutant strains with increased or decreased production of L-leucine and L-phenylalanine The pTOPO-pheA-library prepared in Example 1-2 was transformed into the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 by electroporation, and then plated on a nutrient medium (Table 2) containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. 10,000 colonies of the strain into which the mutant gene was inserted were selected. Each of the selected colonies was named from ATCC13032/pTOPOpheA(mt)1toATCC13032/pTOPOpheA(mt)10,000. To identify colonies showing the increased production of L-leucine and the increased or decreased production of L-phenylalanine which is an aromatic amino acid, among the obtained 10,000 colonies, the fermentation titer was evaluated for each colony in the following manner. 
 [Table 2] Type of medium Ingredient 
 Production medium 100 g of glucose, 40 g of (NH4)2SO4, 2.5 g of soy protein, 5 g of corn steep solids, 3 g of urea, 1 g of KH2PO4, 0.5 g of MgSO47H20, 100 pg of biotin, 1,000 pg of thiamine hydrochloride, 2000 pg of calcium-pantothenic acid, 3,000 pg of nicotinamide, 30 g of CaCO3; (Based on 1 liter of distilled water), pH 7.0 Nutrient medium 10 g of glucose, 5 g of beef extract, 10 g of polypeptone, 2.5 g of sodium chloride, 5 g of yeast extract, 20 g of agar, 2 g of urea (based on 1 liter of distilled water) 
 Each colony was inoculated into a 250 ml corner-baffle flask containing 25 pg/mL kanamycin in 25 ml of autoclaved production medium (Table 2) using a platinum loop, and then cultured at 30C for 60 hours under shaking at 200 rpm. After completion of the culture, L-leucine and L-phenylalanine among aromatic amino acids were measured by a method of using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC, SHIMAZDU LC20A). Among the obtained 10,000 colonies, one type of a strain (ATCC13032/pTOPOpheA(mt)3891) with the most improved L-leucine-producing ability and reduced L-phenylalanine production, as compared to the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum strain (ATCC13032), was selected. The concentrations of L-leucine (Leu) and L-phenylalanine (Phe) produced in the selected strain are shown in Table 3 below. 
 [Table 3] Strain name Leu (g/L) Phe (g/L) ATCC13032 0.87 1.85 ATCC13032/pTOPOpheA(mt)3891 1.25 0.26 
 As shown in Table 3, it was confirmed that Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032/pTOPOpheA(mt)3891 with variations in the pheA gene showed about 1.4-fold improvement in the L-leucine production and about 7-fold reduction in the L-phenylalanine production, as compared to the parent strain. 
 Example 2-2. Identification of variations in strains with increased or decreased production of L-leucine and L-phenylalanine In order to identify the pheA gene variations of the selected mutant strain ATCC13032/pTOPO_pheA(mt)3891, DNA of each mutant strain was used as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4 described in Table 1 were used to perform PCR under conditions of denaturation at 940C for 5 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds, at 550C for 30 seconds, and at 720C for 1 minute and 30 seconds, and then at 720C for 5 minutes. Then, DNA sequencing was performed. As a result of sequencing, it was confirmed that the ATCC13032/pTOPOpheA(mt)3891 strain had a substitution of GCG for CGC which are nucleotides at positions 544 to 546 of the pheA gene, indicating that it encodes a variant (hereinafter referred to as R182A), in which alanine is substituted for arginine which is an amino acid at position 182 of the pheA protein. The amino acid sequence of pheA variant (R182A) and the base sequence of pheA variant encoding the same are as in SEQ ID NOS: 5 and 6. Therefore, in the following Examples, it was tried to confirm whether the variation (R182A) affects the production of L-leucine and aromatic amino acid by the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium. 
 Example 3: Examination of L-leucine- and L-phenylalanine-producing ability of selected mutant strains Example 3-1. Construction of insertion vector including pheA variation In order to introduce the variation selected in Example 2 into the strain, an insertion vector was intended to be constructed. The vector for introducing the pheA (R182A) variation was constructed using a site directed mutagenesis method. In order to generate the R182A variation using the chromosome of the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template, a primer pair of SEQ ID 
 NOS: 7 and 8 and a primer pair of SEQ ID NOS: 9 and 10 were used to perform PCR. In detail, PCR was performed under conditions of denaturation at 940C for minutes, followed by 30 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds, at 550C for 30 seconds, and at 720C for 1 minute 30 seconds, and then at 720C for 5 minutes. The specific sequences of the used primers are listed in Table 4. 
 [Table 4] SEQ ID NO. Sequence(5'->3') SEQ ID NO: 7 GTGAATTCGAGCTCGGTACCCGTGGCATGGATGAAAAG SEQ ID NO: 8 TTGGACAGCAACGAAGCGGGTcgcGGCGCCACGGAC SEQ ID NO:9 GTCGCCGACGTCCGTGGCGCCgcgACCCGCTTCGTTG SEQ ID NO: 10 GGTCGACTCTAGAGGATCCCCGTGGCTGTCCATGATTC 
 The resulting PCR product was cloned into a linear pDCM2 vector (Korean Patent Publication No. KR 10-2020-0136813 A) digested with Smal restriction enzyme through fusion of the homologous sequence of the terminal 15 bases between the DNA fragments using In-Fusion enzyme to construct a vector 'pDCM2-pheA(R182A)' in which the amino acid at position 182 of pheA was substituted with alanine. 
 Example 3-2. Introduction of variant into ATCC13032 strain and Evaluation The pDCM2-pheA(R182A) vector constructed in Example 3-1 was transformed into ATCC13032 by electroporation, and the strains in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of the homologous sequence were selected on a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the target gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the pheA gene variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR using primers of SEQ ID NOS: 3 and 4, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying introduction of the variation into the strain. A total of 3 types of strains were prepared, and named ATCC13032_pheAR182A. In order to evaluate the L-leucine- and aromatic amino acid-producing ability of a total of 3 strains thus prepared, a flask fermentation titer was evaluated. Each one platinum loop of the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 and the prepared ATCC13032_pheAR182A was inoculated into a 250 ml corner-baffle flask containing 25 ml of a production medium, and then cultured at 300C for 60 hours under shaking at 200 rpm to produce L-leucine. After completion of the culture, L-leucine, L-tyrosine, and L-phenylalanine productions were measured by HPLC. The concentration of leucine in the culture medium of each tested strain is shown in Table 5 below. 
 [Table 5] Strain name Leu (g/L) Phe (g/L) ATCC13032 0.87 1.85 ATCC13032 _pheAR182A 1.27 0.22 
 As shown in Table 5, ATCC13032_pheAR182A showed about 1.5-fold improvement in the L-leucine yield, as compared to the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032. ATCC13032_pheAR182A showed about 8-fold reduction in the L-phenylalanine production. 
 Example 4: Examination of leucine- and phenylalanine-producing ability of selected pheA variation in leucine-producing strain The wild-type strain of the genus Corynebacterium produces only trace amounts of leucine even though it produces leucine. Accordingly, a leucine producing strain derived from ATCC13032 was prepared, and the selected variations were introduced to perform an experiment for examining the leucine- and phenylalanine-producing ability. The detailed experimental method is as follows. 
 Example 4-1. Preparation of L-leucine-producing CJL-8109 strain As strains for producing high concentrations of L-leucine, the ATCC13032 derived strains were prepared, each including (1) a variation (R558H), in which histidine was substituted for arginine which is an amino acid at position 558 of LeuA protein by substituting A for G which is a nucleotide at position 1673 of leuA gene, (2) a variation (G561D), in which aspartic acid was substituted for glycine which is an amino acid at position 561 of LeuA protein by substituting AT for GC which are nucleotides at positions 1682 and 1683 of leuA gene, or (3) a variation (P247C), in which cysteine was substituted for proline which is an amino acid at position 247 of LeuA protein by substituting TG for CC which are nucleotides at positions 739 and 740 of leuA gene. In detail, pDCM2-leuA (P247C, R558H, G561D) vector including the leuA gene variations was transformed into Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 by electroporation, and strains in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of homologous sequence were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the leuA gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR (at 940C for 5 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds/at 550C for 30 seconds /at 720C for 90 seconds, and at 720C for 5 minutes) using primers of SEQ ID NOS: 11 and 12 of Table 6, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying introduction of P247C, R558H, G561D variations. ATCC13032_leuA_(P247C, R558H, G561D) strain transformed with the pDCM2 leuA(P247C, R558H, G561D) vector was named 'CJL-8105'. 
 [Table 6] SEQ ID NO: Sequence(5'->3') SEQ ID NO: 11 TATGCTTCACCACATGACTTC SEQ ID NO: 12 AAATCATTTGAGAAAACTCGAGG 
 To increase the L-leucine productivity in the prepared CJL-8105 strain, a strain into which ilvE variant(V156A) encoding branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase was introduced was prepared (Korean Patent No. KR 10 2143964 B1). In detail, the pDCM2-ilvE(V156A) vector including the ilvE gene variation was transformed into Corynebacterium glutamicum CJL-8105 by electroporation, and strains in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of homologous sequence were selected in a medium containing mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the ilvE gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR (at 940C for 5 minutes, 30 cycles of at 940C 30 seconds/at 550C 30 seconds/at 720C 90 seconds, followed by at 720C for 5 minutes) using primers of SEQ ID NOS: 13 and 14 of Table 7 below, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying introduction of V156A variation. The strain transformed with the pDCM2-ilvE(V156A) vector was named 'CJL-8108'. 
 [Table 7] SEQ ID NO: Sequence(5'->3') 13 GTCACCCGATCGTCTGAAG 14 GTCTTAAAACCGGTTGAT 
 To increase the L-leucine productivity in the prepared CJL-8108 strain, a strain into which gItA variant (M3121; SEQ ID NO: 25) with weakened citrate synthase activity was introduced was prepared. In detail, pDCM2-gItA(M3121) vector including the gitA gene variation was transformed into Corynebacterium glutamicum CJL-8108 by electroporation, and strains in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of homologous sequence were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the gItA gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR (at 940C for 5 minutes, 30 cycles of at 940C 30 seconds/at 550C 30 seconds/at 720C 90 seconds, followed by 720C for 5 minutes) using primers of SEQ ID NOS: 15 and 16 of Table 8, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying introduction of M3121 variation. The strain transformed with the pDCM2-gltA(M3121) vector was named 'CJL-8109'. 
 [Table 8] SEQ ID NO: Sequence(5'->3') 15 CAATGCTGGCTGCGTACGC 16 CTCCTCGCGAGGAACCAACT 
 Example 4-2. Introduction of pheA variant into CJL-8109 strain and Evaluation The L-leucine-producing strain CJL-8109 was transformed with the pDCM2-pheA(R182A) vector prepared in Example 3-1, and the strains, in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of the homologous sequence, were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the target gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the pheA gene variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR using primers of SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying that the pheA variation was introduced into the strain. The prepared 
 CJL8109_pheA_R182A was named CA13-8116, and deposited at the Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an international depository authority under the Budapest Treaty, on January 22, 2021, and assigned Accession No. KCCM12943P. The leucine-producing ability of the prepared CA13-8116 and ATCC13032, CJL-8109 strains was evaluated. In the same manner as in Example 2, flask culture was performed, and after completion of the culture, the leucine production was measured by a method of using HPLC, and the culture results are as in Table 9 below. 
 [Table 9] Strain name Leu (g/L) Phe (g/L) ATCC13032 0.87 1.87 ATCC13032_euA_(P247C, R558H, G561D)_ilvE(V156A)_gltA(M3121): CJL- 2.77 1.67 8109 CJL8109_pheARl82A: CA13-8116 3.76 0.31 
 As shown in Table 9, it was confirmed that the L-leucine-producing strain Corynebacterium glutamicum CA13-8116 including the additional R182A variation in the pheA gene showed about 4-fold improvement in the L-leucine-producing ability, as compared to the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032. It was also confirmed that the L-leucine-producing strain Corynebacterium glutamicum CA13-8116 showed about 1.2-fold improvement in the L-leucine-producing ability, as compared to the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum CJL-8109. CA13-8116 showed about 5.4-fold reduction in the L phenylalanine-producing ability, as compared to the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum CJL-8109. These results indicate that the amino acid at position 182 of the amino acid sequence of pheA protein is an important site for increasing the L-leucine production. 
 Example 5: Examination of leucine- and phenylalanine-producing ability of selected pheA variation in isoleucine-producing strain In order to examine whether the selected variation exhibits the effect on leucine and isoleucine, which is a representative branched-chain amino acid, an experiment was conducted to confirm the isoleucine producing ability by introducing the variation into an isoleucine-producing strain of the genus Corynebacterium. The detailed experimental method is as follows. 
 Example 5-1. Preparation of L-isoleucine-producing CA10-3101 strain An L-isoleucine-producing strain was developed from the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032. In detail, in order to release the feedback inhibition of threonine which is a precursor of isoleucine in the biosynthetic pathway, arginine which is an amino acid at position 407 of hom which is a gene encoding homoserine dehydrogenase, was substituted with histidine (US 2020-0340022 Al). In detail, to prepare strains into which the hom (R407H) variation was introduced, PCR was performed using the chromosome of Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO: 17 and SEQ ID NO: 18 or SEQ ID NO: 19 and SEQ ID NO: 20. Sequences of the primers used here are shown in Table 10 below. 
 [Table 10] SEQ ID NO. Sequence(5'->3') SEQ ID NO: 17 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCCGCTTTTGCACTCATCGAGC SEQ ID NO: 18 CACGATCAGATGTGCATCATCAT SEQ ID NO: 19 ATGATGATGCACATCTGATCGTG SEQ ID NO: 20 CTCTAGAGGATCCCCGAGCATCTTCCAAAACCTTG 
 PfuUltra T M high-fidelity DNA polymerase (Stratagene) was used as the polymerase for the PCR reaction, and the PCR conditions included 28 cycles of denaturation at 950C for 30 seconds; annealing at 550C for 30 seconds; and polymerization at 720C for 1 minute. As a result, a DNA fragment of 1000 bp at the 5' upstream and a DNA fragment of 1000 bp at the 3' downstream, centering on the variation of the hom gene, were obtained, respectively. PCR was performed using the amplified two DNA fragments as templates and primers of SEQ ID NOS: 17 and 20. PCR was performed under conditions of denaturation at 950C for 5 minutes; 28 cycles of denaturation at 950C for 30 seconds, annealing at 550C for 30 seconds, and polymerization at 720C for 2 minutes; and polymerization at 720C for 5 minutes. As a result, a DNA fragment of 2 kb was amplified, the DNA fragment including the hom gene variation encoding the homoserine dehydrogenase variant in which arginine at position 407 was substituted with histidine. The amplification product was purified using a PCR purification kit (QIAGEN) and used as an insert DNA fragment for the vector construction. The purified amplification product was treated with a restriction enzyme small. pDCM2 vector heat-treated at 650C for minutes and the amplification product, insert DNA fragment were made at a molar concentration (M) ratio of 1:2, and cloning was performed using an infusion cloning kit (TaKaRa) according to the provided manual, thereby constructing a pDCM2-R407H vector for introducing the hom(R407H) variation into the chromosome. The prepared vector was transformed into Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 by electroporation, and subjected to secondary crossover, and a strain including the hom(R407H) variation on the chromosome was obtained and named Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 hom(R407H). In order to release feedback inhibition by L-isoleucine and to increase activity in the prepared ATCC13032 hom(R407H) strain, strains were prepared, into which variants (T381A, F383A) of ilvA which is a gene encoding L-threonine dehydratase were introduced. More specifically, to prepare strains into which ilvA (T381A, F383A) variations were introduced, PCR was performed using the chromosome of Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO: 21 and SEQ ID NO: 22 or SEQ ID NO: 23 and SEQ ID NO: 24. Sequences of the primers used here are shown in Table 11 below. 
 [Table 11] SEQ ID NO. Sequence(5'->3') SEQ ID NO: 21 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCATGAGTGAAACATACGTGTC SEQ ID NO: 22 GCGCTTGAGGTACTCtgcCAGCGcGATGTCATCATCCGG SEQ ID NO: 23 CCGGATGATGACATCgCGCTGgcaGAGTACCTCAAGCGC SEQ ID NO: 24 CTCTAGAGGATCCCCCGTCACCGACACCTCCACA 
 PfuUltra T M high-fidelity DNA polymerase (Stratagene) was used as the polymerase for the PCR reaction, and the PCR conditions included 28 cycles of denaturation at 950C for 30 seconds; annealing at 550C for 30 seconds; and polymerization at 720C for 1 minute. As a result, a DNA fragment of 1126 bp at the 5' upstream and a DNA fragment of 286 bp at the 3' downstream, centering on the variation of the ilvA gene, were obtained, respectively. PCR was performed using the amplified two DNA fragments as templates and primers of SEQ ID NOS: 21 and 24. PCR was performed under conditions of denaturation at 950C for 5 minutes; 28 cycles of denaturation at 950C for 30 seconds, annealing at 550C for 30 seconds, and polymerization at 720C for 2 minutes; and polymerization at 720C for 5 minutes. As a result, a DNA fragment of 1.4 kb was amplified, the DNA fragment including the ilvA gene variation encoding the threonine dehydratase variant in which threonine at position 381 was substituted with alanine, and phenylalanine at position 383 was substituted with alanine. The amplification product was purified using a PCR purification kit (QIAGEN) and used as an insert DNA fragment for the vector construction. The purified amplification product was treated with a restriction enzyme small. pDCM2 vector heat-treated at 650C for 20 minutes and the amplification product, insert DNA fragment were made at a molar concentration (M) ratio of 1:2, and cloning was performed using an infusion cloning kit (TaKaRa) according to the provided manual, thereby constructing a pDCM2-ilvA(T381A, F383A) vector for introducing the ilvA(T381A, F383A) variations into the chromosome. The prepared vector was transformed into Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 hom(R407H) by electroporation, and subjected to secondary crossover, and a strain including the ilvA(T381A, F383A) variations on the chromosome was obtained and named Corynebacteriumglutamicum CA10-3101. 
 Example 5-2. Introduction of pheA variant into CA10-3101 strain and Evaluation The L-isoleucine-producing strain CA10-3101 was transformed with the pDCM2-pheA(R182A) vector prepared in Example 3-1, and the strains, in which each vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of the homologous sequence, were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the target gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the pheA gene variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR using primers of SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4 of Table 1, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying that the pheA variation was introduced into the strain. The L-isoleucine- and L-phenylalanine-producing ability of the prepared CA10-3101_pheARl82A and ATCC13032, CA10-3101 strains was evaluated. The parent strain and the pheA variants were inoculated in a 250 ml corner-baffle flask containing 25 ml of an isoleucine production medium, respectively, and cultured at 320C for 60 hours under shaking at 200 rpm to produce L-isoleucine. The composition of the production medium used in this Example is as follows. 
 <Production medium> 
 10% glucose, 0.2% yeast extract, 1.6% ammonium sulfate, 0.1% potassium phosphate monobasic, 0.1% magnesium sulfate heptahydrate, 10 mg/I iron sulfate heptahydrate, 10mg/I manganese sulfate monohydrate, 200pg/L biotin, pH 7.2 
 After completion of the culture, the production of L-isoleucine and L phenylalanine was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and the concentrations of L-isoleucine and by-products in the culture medium of each tested strain are shown in Table 12 below. 
 [Table 12] L-isoleucine concentration (g/L) L-Phe concentration (g/L) ATCC13032 0.0 1.2 CA10-3101 (parent strain) 2.5 0.6 CA10-3101_pheA_R182A 3.0 0.2 
 As shown in Table 12, it was confirmed that the L-isoleucine-producing strain including the additional R182A variation in the pheA gene showed about 1.1-fold improvement in the L-isoleucine-producing ability, as compared to the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum CA10-3101, and CA10 3101_pheAR182A strain showed a reduction in the by-product L-phenylalanine. These results indicate that the amino acid at position 182 of the amino acid sequence of pheA protein is an important site for increasing the L-isoleucine production. 
 Example 6: Examination of valine- and phenylalanine-producing ability of selected pheA variation in valine-producing strain In order to examine whether the selected variation also exhibits the effect on L-valine, which is a representative branched-chain amino acid, such as leucine, an experiment was conducted to confirm the valine- and phenylalanine-producing ability by introducing the selected variation into a valine-producing strain KCCM11201P of the genus Corynebacterium. The detailed experimental method is as follows. 
 Example 6-1. Introduction of pheA variant into KCCM11201P strain and Evaluation In order to examine whether or not the corresponding variation has an effect on increasing the L-valine-producing ability, an L-valine-producing strain Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11201P (US 8465962 B2) was used. The valine-producing strain KCCM11201P was transformed with the pDCM2 pheA(R182A) vector prepared in Example 3-1, and the strains, in which each vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of the homologous sequence, were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the target gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the pheA gene variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR using primers of SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4 of Table 1, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying that the pheA variation was introduced into the strain. The prepared strains were named KCCM11201P - pheA(R182A), respectively. The valine-producing ability of the prepared KCCM11201P - pheA(R182A) strains was evaluated. In the same manner as in Example 2, flask culture was performed, and after completion of the culture, the valine production was measured by a method of using HPLC, and the culture results are as in Table 13 below. 
 [Table 13] Strain name Val (g/L) Phe (mg/L) KCCM11201P 2.60 146.62 
 KCCM11201P - pheA(R182A) 2.86 27.33 
 As shown in Table 13, it was confirmed that the L-valine-producing Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11201P - pheA(R182A) including the additional R182A variation in the pheA gene showed about 1.1-fold improvement in the L-valine-producing ability, as compared to the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11201P. It was confirmed that KCCM11201P - pheA(R182A) showed about 5.36-fold reduction in the L phenylalanine-producing ability, as compared to the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11201P. These results indicate that the amino acid at position 182 of the amino acid sequence of pheA protein is an important site for increasing the L-valine production. 
 Reference Example 1: Examination of effect of gitA(M3121) variation on leucine production Reference Example 1-1. Construction of insertion vector including gItA variation A vector for introducing gItA (M3121; SEQ ID NO: 25) variation was constructed using a site directed mutagenesis method. PCR was performed using the chromosome of the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and a primer pair of SEQ ID NOS: 27 and 28 and a primer pair of SEQ ID NOS: 29 and 30. PCR was performed under conditions of denaturation at 940C for 5 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds, at 550C for 30 seconds, and at 720C for 1 minute 30 seconds, followed by polymerization at 720C for 5 minutes. The resultant gene fragment was cloned into a linear pDCM2 vector digested with Small restriction enzyme using In-Fusion enzyme through fusion of the homologous sequence of the terminal 15 bases between DNA fragments, thereby constructing a pDCM2-gItA(M3121) vector substituting isoleucine for methionine which is an amino acid at position 312. 
 [Table 14] SEQ ID NO: Primer Sequence(5'->3') GTGAATTCGAGCTCGGTACCCGCGGGAATCCTGCGTTACCG 27 gltA M3121 Up F 
 TGTAAACGCGGTGTCCGAAGCCGATGAGGCGGACGCCGTC 28 gltA M3121 Up R TT AAGACGGCGTCCGCCTCATCGGCTTCGGACACCGCGTTTAC 29 gltA M3121 Down F A GGTCGACTCTAGAGGATCCCCTTAGCGCTCCTCGCGAGGAA 30 gltA M3121 Down R 
 Reference Example 1-2. Introduction of variant into ATCC13032 strain and Evaluation The wild-type ATCC13032 was transformed with the pDCM2-gtA(M3121) vector prepared in Reference Example 1-1, and the strains, in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of the homologous sequence, were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the target gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the gItA gene variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR using primers of SEQ ID NO: 15 and SEQ ID NO: 16 (Example 4-1, Table 8), and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying that the variation (SEQ ID NO: 26) was introduced into the strain. The prepared strain was named ATCC13032_gItAM3121. To evaluate the leucine-producing ability of the prepared ATCC13032_gItAM3121 strain, a flask fermentation titer was evaluated. Each one platinum loop of the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 and the prepared ATCC13032_gItAM3121 was inoculated into a 250 ml corner- baffle flask containing 25 ml of a production medium, and then cultured at 300C for 60 hours under shaking at 200 rpm to produce leucine. After completion of the culture, the leucine production was measured by HPLC. The concentration of leucine in the culture medium of each tested strain is shown in Table 15 below. 
 - Production medium: 100 g of glucose, 40 g of (NH4)2SO4, 2.5 g of soy protein, 5 g of corn steep solids, 3 g of urea, 1 g of KH2PO4, 0.5 gof MgSO4-7H2O, 100 pg of biotin, 1,000 pg of thiamine hydrochloride, 2000 pg of calcium pantothenic acid, 3,000 pg of nicotinamide, 30 g of CaC03 (Based on 1 liter of distilled water), pH 7.0 
 [Table 15] Strain name Leucine (g/L) ATCC13032 0.87 ATCC13032_gltAM3121 1.25 
 From this, it was confirmed that the M3121 substitution of gItA is an effective variation for increasing the leucine production. 
 Reference Example 2: Examination of effect of ilvA(T381A, F383A) variations on isoleucine production Reference Example 2-1. Construction of pECCG117-ilvA(F383A) To amplify ilvA(SEQ ID NO: 32) which is a gene encoding threonine dehydratase (SEQ ID NO: 31), BamHI restriction enzyme sites were inserted at both ends of primers (SEQ ID NO: 33 and SEQ ID NO: 34) for amplification from the promoter region (about 300 bp upstream the start codon) to the terminator region (about 100 bp downstream the stop codon), based on the previously reported ilvA sequence introduced with the F383A variation (World J Microbiol Biotechnol (2015) 31:1369-1377). In addition, primers (SEQ ID NO: 35 and SEQ 
 ID NO: 36) for introducing the F383A variation into ilvA were used. Sequences of primers used here are shown in Table 16 below. 
 [Table 16] SEQ ID NO: Name Sequence 33 Primer1 ggatccGACTGAGCCTGGGCAACTGG 34 Primer2 ggatccCCGTCACCGACACCTCCACA 35 Primer3 ACATCACGCTGgcaGAGTACCTCAA 36 Primer4 TTGAGGTACTCtgcCAGCGTGATGT 
 PCR was performed using the chromosome of the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 13032 as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO: 33 and SEQ ID NO: 34, SEQ ID NO: 35 and SEQ ID NO: 36. PCR was performed under conditions of denaturation at 950C for 5 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of denaturation at 950C for 30 seconds, annealing at 550C for 30 seconds, and polymerization at 720C for 90 seconds, and then polymerization at 720C for 5 minutes. As a result, a DNA fragment of 1460 bp at the 5' upstream and a DNA fragment of 276 bp at the 3' downstream, centering on the variation of the ilvA gene, were obtained, respectively. PCR was performed using the amplified two DNA fragments as templates and primers of SEQ ID NO: 35 and SEQ ID NO: 36. As a result, a DNA fragment of 1531 bp, including the ilvA variation substituting alanine for phenylalanine at position 383, was amplified. pECCG117 (Korean Patent No. 10-0057684) vector and the ilvA DNA fragment were treated with a restriction enzyme BamH, and ligated using DNA ligase, and then cloned to obtain a plasmid, which was named pECCG117-ilvA(F383A). 
 Reference Example 2-2: Additional introduction of random mutation into pECCG117-ilvA(F383A) 
 To obtain a variant of the gene encoding L-threonine dehydratase, an ilvA variant gene plasmid was prepared using a random mutagenesis kit (Agilent Technologies, USA). PCR was performed using the ilvA (F383A) chromosome of Reference Example 2-1 as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO: 35 and SEQ ID NO: 36. PCR was performed under conditions of denaturation at 950C for 2 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of denaturation at 950C for 30 seconds, annealing at 550C for 30 seconds, and polymerization at 720C for 90 seconds, and then polymerization at 720C for 10 minutes. As a result, a DNA fragment of 1531 bp was amplified, which is an ivA variant encoding L-threonine dehydratase with an additional random variation, in addition to the variation in which phenylalanine at position 383 was substituted with alanine. The pECCG117 vector and the ivA variant DNA fragment were treated with a restriction enzyme BamHI, ligated using DNA ligase, and then cloned to obtain a plasmid group. 
 Reference Example 2-3: Preparation of CJILE-301 strain pECCG117-ilvA(F383A) was introduced into the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 hom(R407H) strain, and the strain into which the prepared plasmid was introduced was named ATCC13032 hom(R407H)/pECCG117-ilvA(F383A). In addition, the variant plasmid group obtained in Reference Example 2-2 was introduced into Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 hom (R407H) strain, which was then spread on a minimal medium. A death rate was obtained, and as a result, the death rate was %, and the living cells were inoculated and cultured in a seed medium, and finally, a variant strain showing the higher isoleucine-producing ability than the control ATCC13032 hom(R407H)/pECCG117-ilvA(F383A) was selected, and named Corynebacterium glutamicum CJILE-301. The plasmid was isolated from the CJILE-301 strain, and the ilvA gene was sequenced. As a result, it was confirmed that A which is a base sequence at position 1141 of the ilvA gene was substituted with G, encoding a variant protein having a substitution of A for T at position 381 of ilvA protein, in addition to the substitution of A for F at position 383 of ilvA protein. The sequence was represented by SEQ ID NO: 38. 
 Reference Example 2-4: Introduction of ilvA variant (T381A, F383A) To introduce the ilvA variant (T381A, F383A) into the wild-type strain, primers of SEQ ID NO: 21 and SEQ ID NO: 24 (Example 5-1, Table 11) were prepared. To prepare a strain into which the ilvA variant (T381A, F383A) was introduced, PCR was performed using a plasmid DNA extracted from the CJILE 301 strain as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO: 21 and SEQ ID NO: 24. PfuUltra T M high-fidelity DNA polymerase (Stratagene) was used as the polymerase for the PCR reaction, and the PCR conditions included 28 cycles of denaturation at 950C for 30 seconds; annealing at 550C for 30 seconds; and polymerization at 720C for 2 minutes. As a result, a gene fragment of 1411 bp, including the terminator region of about 100 bp of the ilvA gene of 1311 bp, was obtained. The amplification product was purified using a PCR purification kit, and used as an insert DNA fragment for the vector construction. The purified amplification product was treated with a restriction enzyme small. pDCM2 vector heat-treated at 650C for 20 minutes and the amplification product, insert DNA fragment were made at a molar concentration (M) ratio of 1:2, and cloning was performed using an infusion cloning kit according to the provided manual, thereby constructing a pDCM2-T381AF383A vector for introducing the T381A, F383A variations into the chromosome. The prepared vector was transformed into Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 hom(R407H) by electroporation, and subjected to secondary crossover, and a strain including the ilvA(T381A, F383A; SEQ ID NO: 37) variations on the chromosome was obtained and named CA10-3101. The strain CA10-3101 was deposited at the Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an international depository authority under the Budapest Treaty, on May 27, 2020, and assigned Accession No. KCCM12739P. 
 The KCCM12739P strain was inoculated in a 250 ml corner-baffle flask containing 25 ml of an isoleucine production medium, and then cultured at 320 C for 60 hours under shaking at 200 rpm to produce L-isoleucine. The composition of the used production medium is as follows. 
 <Production medium> 10% glucose, 0.2% yeast extract, 1.6% ammonium sulfate, 0.1% potassium phosphate monobasic, 0.1% magnesium sulfate heptahydrate, 10 mg/L iron sulfate heptahydrate, 10 mg/L manganese sulfate monohydrate, 200 pg/L biotin, pH 7.2 
 After completion of the culture, the concentrations of L-isoleucine and L threonine in the culture medium were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and the results are shown in Table 17 below. 
 [Table 17] Strain name L-isoleucine (g/L) L-threonine (g/L) ATCC13032 hom(R407H) 0.0 3.8 ATCC13032 hom(R407H) ilvA(WT) 0.0 3.7 CA10-3101(ATCC13032 hom(R407H) ilvA(T381A, F383A)) 3.3 0.0 
 As shown in Table 17, it was confirmed that the parent strain Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 13032 hom(R407H) could not produce L isoleucine, whereas the ATCC13032 hom(R407H) ilvA(T381A, F383A) variant strain produced L-isoleucine at a concentration of 3.9 g/L to exhibit a remarkable increase in the L-isoleucine productivity, as compared to the parent strain. 
 From this, it was confirmed that the ilvA(T381A, F383A) variation is an effective variation for increasing the isoleucine production. 
 Reference Example 3: Examination of effect of leuA(P247C, R558H, G561D) on leucine production Reference Example 3-1. Preparation of CJL-8100 strain pDCM2-leuA(R558H, G561D) vector including leuA gene variations, as disclosed in KR 10-2018-0077008A, was transformed into the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 by electroporation, and the strains, in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of the homologous sequence, were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the leuA gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR (at 940C for 5 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds/at 550C for 30 seconds/at 720C for 90 seconds, at 720C for 5 minutes) using primers of SEQ ID NO: 39 and SEQ ID NO: 43, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence, thereby identifying that the R558H, G561D variations were introduced. ATCC13032_leuA_(R558H, G561D) strain transformed with the pDCM2-leuA(R558H, G561D) vector was named 'CJL-8100'. Sequences of the primers used in Reference Example 3 are shown in Table 18 below. 
 [Table 18] SEQ ID NO. Sequence(5'->3') SEQ ID NO: 39 AACACGACCGGCATCCCGTCGC 
 SEQ ID NO: 40 AAATCATTTGAGAAAACTCGAGG SEQ ID NO: 41 GTGAATTCGAGCTCGGTACCCAAATCATTTGAGAAAACTCGAGG C SEQ ID NO: 42 GGTGATCATCTCAACGGTGGAACACAGGTTGATGATCATTGGGT T SEQ ID NO: 43 AACCCAATGATCATCAACCTGTGTTCCACCGTTGAGATGATCACC SEQ ID NO: 44 GGTCGACTCTAGAGGATCCCCAAGAAGGCAACATCGGACAGC SEQ ID NO: 45 ATCCATTCAATGGAGTCTGCG 
 Reference Example 3-2. Construction of insertion vector including IeuA variation A vector for introducing P247C variation into an L-leucine-producing strain CJL-8100, in which two variations (R558H, G561D) were introduced into LeuA, was constructed. PCR was performed using the chromosome of CJL-8100 strain as a template and a primer pair of SEQ ID NOS: 39 and 40 and a primer pair of SEQ ID NOS: 41 and 42. PCR was performed under conditions of denaturation at 940C for 5 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds, at 550C for seconds, and at 720C for 1 minute and 30 seconds, and then at 720C for 5 minutes. The resultant PCR fragment was cloned into a linear pDCM2 vector digested with Smal restriction enzyme using In-Fusion enzyme through fusion of the homologous sequence of the terminal 15 bases between DNA fragments, thereby constructing a pDCM2-leuA(P247C, R558H, G561D) vector including the leuA variation encoding the LeuA variant in which histidine was substituted for arginine which is an amino acid at position 558 of the LeuA amino acid sequence of the wild-type strain, and aspartic acid was substituted for glycine which is an amino acid at position 561, and substituting cysteine (Cys) for proline (Pro) which is an amino acid at position 247 of LeuA. 
 Reference Example 3-3. Introduction of LeuA variant(P247C) into CJL 8100 strain and Evaluation CJL-8100 which is an L-leucine-producing strain was transformed with the pDCM2-leuA(P247C, R558H, G561D) vector prepared in Reference Example 3-2, and the strains, in which the vector was inserted on the chromosome by recombination of the homologous sequence, were selected in a medium containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were again subjected to secondary crossover, and strains into which the target gene variation was introduced were selected. Finally, whether or not the leuA gene variation was introduced into the transformed strain was confirmed by performing PCR (at 940C for 5 minutes, followed by 30 cycles of at 940C for 30 seconds/at 550C for 30 seconds/at 720C for 90 seconds, and then at 720C for 5 minutes) using primers of SEQ ID NO: 39 and SEQ ID NO: 45, and then analyzing the nucleotide sequence. As a result of sequencing analysis, it was confirmed that leuA variations were introduced into the strain, the leuA variations encoding the LeuA variant(P247C, R558H, G561D), in which histidine was substituted for arginine which is an amino acid at position 558 of LeuA, aspartic acid was substituted for glycine which is an amino acid at position 561 of LeuA, and cysteine (Cys) was substituted for proline (Pro) which is an amino acid at position 247 of LeuA by substitution of A for G which is a nucleotide at position 1673, substitution of AT for GC which are nucleotides at positions 1682 and 1683, and substitution of TG for CC which are nucleotides at positions 739 and 740 of the leuA gene in the chromosome of the strain. The prepared CJL8100_leuAP247C was named 'CA13-8105', and deposited at the Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an international depository authority under the Budapest Treaty, on April 29, 2020, and assigned Accession No. KCCM12709P. 
 The amino acid sequence of the LeuA variant(P247C, R558H, G561D) including a total of 3 types of variations, and base sequence of the leuA variant encoding the same are as in SEQ ID NO: 46 and SEQ ID NO: 47, respectively. 
 The L-leucine-producing ability of ATCC13032, the prepared CJL-8100 and CA13-8105 strains was evaluated. In detail, a flask culture was performed in the same manner as in Example 2-1. After completion of the culture, the L-leucine productions of the parent strain and variant strains were measured by HPLC, and the results are shown in Table 19 below. 
 [Table 19] Strain name L-leucine (g/L) ATCC13032 0.87 ATCC13032_leuA_(R558H, G561D): CJL-8100 2.71 CJL8100_leuAP247C: CA13-8105 3.52 
 As shown in Table 19, the L-leucine-producing strain Corynebacterium glutamicum CJL8100 showed about 130% improvement in the L-leucine producing ability, as compared to the parent strain ATCC13032. TheCA13-8105 strain prepared by introducing the additional leuAP247C variation into the CJL8100 strain showed about 150% improvement in the L-leucine-producing ability, as compared to the parent strain CJL8100. From this, it was confirmed that the leuA(R558H, G561D, P247C) variations are effective variations for increasing the leucine production. 
 Based on the above description, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be implemented in a different specific form without changing the technical spirit or essential characteristics thereof. In this regard, it should be understood that the above embodiment is not limitative, but illustrative in all aspects. The scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims rather than by the description preceding them, and therefore all changes and modifications that fall within metes and bounds of the claims, or equivalents of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by the claims. 
 Effect of the invention When a prephenate dehydratase variant of the present disclosure is used, it is possible to produce branched-chain amino acids in a high yield, as compared to no use thereof. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
