
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [DESCRIPTION] [Invention Title] 
 A MICROORGANISM OF GENUS CORYNEBACTERIUM HAVING AN ABILITY TO PRODUCE L-ARGININE AND A METHOD FOR PRODUCING L-ARGININE USING THE SAME 
 [Technical Field] 
 The present invention relates to a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium having an ability to produce L-arginine and a method of producing L-arginine using the same. 
 [Background Art] L-arginine is an amino acid widely used in amino acid supplements, pharmaceutical drugs, foods, etc., and there has been demand for the development of efficient L-arginine production in the related industries. 
 The method of producing L-arginine by a conventional biological fermentation method is a method to produce L-arginine directly from carbon and nitrogen sources, and various methods including a method using an induced modified strain from a microorganism of the genus Brevibacterium or Corynebacterium, a method using a bacterial cell line developed to have enhanced amino acid-producing ability by cell fusion, etc., have been reported. Recently, a method of using a genetic recombinant strain, wherein a gene which inhibits the expression of arginine-biosynthesizing operon argR was inactivated (U.S. Patent No. 7,160,705), and a method of using the overexpression of argF in the arginine operon (Korean Patent No. 10-0854234), etc., were reported. In particular, the deletion in argR, which controls the arginine operon, has been considered as an important factor in arginine production. 
 According to the facts known so far, in a microorganism of Corynebacterium, argCJBDFR gene, which is involved in arginine biosynthesis, is constituted in the form of an operon and is subjected to feedback-inhibition by intracellular arginine (Vehary Sakanyan, et al., Microbiology, 142:9-108, 1996), thus imposing a limitation on its high-yield L-arginine production. 
 [Disclosure] 1 [Technical Problem] 
 Accordingly, the present inventors, while endeavoring to increase the production yield of L-arginine, discovered that L-arginine can be produced in higher yield compared to the parental L-arginine-producing strain, by enhancing the activities of the arginine operon and ornithine carbamoyltransferase, without any deletion in arginine repressor (argR), which has conventionally been known as an important factor, thereby completing the present invention. 
 [Technical Solution] 
 An object of the present invention is to provide a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium having an ability to produce L-arginine. 
 Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of producing L-arginine using the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium. 
 [Advantageous Effects] L-arginine can be produced in high yield using an L-arginine-producing microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium with enhanced activities of an arginine operon and ornithine carbamoyltransferase (ArgF or ArgF2) according to the present invention. Additionally, the L-arginine produced in high yield can be effectively used in human pharmaceutical and pharmacological industries. 
 [Best Mode] 
 In an aspect to achieve the above-identified objects, the present invention provides a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium capable of producing L-arginine with enhanced activities of an arginine operon and ornithine carbamoyltransferase. 
 In the present invention, the arginine operon is an operon consisting of enzymes involved in the mechanism of L-arginine biosynthesis, and in particular, arginine operon is consisted of enzymes constituting the cyclic steps of L-arginine biosynthesis. Specifically, the arginine operon consists of N-acetylglutamyl phosphate reductase (ArgC), glutamate N-acetyltransferase (ArgJ), N-acetylglutamate kinase (ArgB), acetylornithine aminotransferase (ArgD), ornithine carbamoyltransferase (ArgF), and arginine repressor (ArgR), and these enzymes are involved in the continuous enzyme reactions of L-arginine biosynthesis. 2 
 These enzymes that constitute the arginine operon are involved in the final L-arginine biosynthesis using L-glutamate as a precursor. The glutamate N-acetyltransferase (ArgJ) synthesizes N-acetylglutamate using L-glutamate as a precursor, and it may be one encoded by argj gene. In particular, the acetyl group is obtained by decomposing N-acetylornithine into L-ornithine. It has been known that glutamate N-acetyltransferase is involved in a recycling reaction for L-arginine biosynthesis in microorganisms belonging to the genus Corynebacterium. 
 The produced N-acetylglutamate is synthesized into N-acetylglutamyl phosphate by N-acetylglutamate kinase (ArgB), ADP is produced by consuming ATP as a coenzyme, and may be one encoded by argB gene. Since it is known to be subjected to feedback inhibition by the final product, L-arginine, modifications releasing the feedback inhibition by L-arginine have been known, and there were reports that L-arginine productivity can be improved utilizing the same (Chinese Patent No. 102021154, and Amino Acids. 2012 Jul;43(l): 255-66. doi: 10.1007/s00726-011- 1069-x. Epub 2011 Sep 8). N-acetylglutamyl phosphate reductase (ArgC) is also called acetylglutamate semialdehyde dehydrogenase in E. coli or yeasts, and may be encoded by argC gene. N-acetylglutamyl phosphate is converted into N-acetylglutamate 5-semialdehyde by this enzyme. NADPH is used as a coenzyme to supply energy. The produced N-acetylglutamate 5-semialdehyde is converted into N-acetylornithine using L-glutamate as an amino acid donor, and this reaction is mediated by acetylomithine aminotransferase (ArgD). Acetylornithine aminotransferase may be encoded by argD gene. The converted N-acetylornithine delivers its acetyl group to L-glutamate by the recycling reaction of glutamate N-acetyltransferase (Argj), and reacts as L-omithine. 
 Ornithine carbamoyltransferase (ArgF) is generally called ornithine carbamoylase, and may be encoded by argF or argF2 genes. L-ornithine binds to carbamoyl phosphate to form L-citrulline, and a phosphate is produced as a side reaction product. The produced L-citrulline is finally synthesized into L-arginine by the enzyme reactions of argininosuccinic acid synthase (ArgG) and argininosuccinic acid lyase (ArgH), which are present separated from the arginine operon, mentioned above. L-arginine is synthesized by a total of 8 biosynthetic steps, and in the present invention, the enhancement of L-arginine productivity was induced by strengthening the activity of the arginine operon (argCJBDFR). 
 The enzymes that constitute the arginine operon may be included within the scope of 3 the present invention as long as they have the activities described above, and specifically, the enzymes may be proteins derived from a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium. More specifically, glutamate N-acetyltransferase (ArgJ) may include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19, or an amino acid sequence which has a homology to the sequence of at least 70%, specifically 80%, and more specifically 90% or higher. N-acetylglutamate kinase (ArgB) may include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 21, or an amino acid sequence which has a homology of at least 70% to the sequence, specifically 80%, and more specifically 90% or higher. Additionally, in the case of the corresponding enzyme, modifications known in the art may be introduced in order to release feedback inhibition by arginine. N-acetylglutamyl phosphate reductase (ArgC) may include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23, or an amino acid sequence which has a homology of at least 70%to the sequence, specifically 80%, and more specifically 90% or higher. Acetylornithine aminotransferase (ArgD) may include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 25, or an amino acid sequence which has a homology of at least 70% to the sequence, specifically 80%, and more specifically 90% or higher. Ornithine carbamoyltransferase (ArgF) may include an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 3, or may include an amino acid sequence which has a homology of at least 70% to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 3. Specifically, ornithine carbamoyltransferase (ArgF) may include an amino acid sequence which has a homology of at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% or higher to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 3. In addition, it is obvious that amino acid sequences including a deletion, modification, substitution or addition in one or more amino acid residues fall within the scope of the present invention, as long as they have the homology with the above proteins and have substantially the same or corresponding biological activity to the above proteins. 
 As used herein, the term “homology” refers to the degree of similarity between two amino acid sequences or nucleotide sequences for comparison, and their homology may be determined by comparing with the naked eye or using a bioinformatic algorithm, which provides analysis results of a degree of homology by aligning sequences for comparison. The homology between the two amino acid sequences may be indicated in percentages. The useful automated algorithms may be used in GAP, BESTFIT, FASTA, and TFASTA computer software modules of Wisconsin Genetics Software Package (Genetics Computer Group, Madison, WI, USA). Other useful algorithms and homology determinations on alignment 4 are already automated in software such as FASTP, BLAST, BLAST2, PSIBLAST, and CLUSTALW. 
 In the present invention, the enhancement of the activity of the arginine operon may refer to the enhancement of the activity in at least one enzyme among the enzymes present in the arginine operon, however, it does not include the single enhancement of argR gene alone. For example, the enhancement of the arginine operon activity may refer to the enhancement of the activities of all enzymes present in the operon through the enhancement of the promoter for one enzyme present in the arginine operon, and specifically, may refer to the enhancement of the activity of the entire operon by the enhancement of the promoter for the N-acetylglutamyl phosphate reductase. Additionally, in the present invention, the increase in expression of a gene encoding at least one enzyme among the enzymes constituting the arginine operon may also be considered as the enhancement of the arginine operon activity. 
 As used herein, the term “enhancement” of activity refers to the provision of a microorganism without a particular activity of a protein with the activity of the protein, or increasing the intracellular activity in the microorganism possessing the activity of the protein, etc., and refers to the increasing of the intracellular activity of the protein compared to the intrinsic activity of the protein. As used herein, the term intrinsic activity refers to the active state of the enzyme possessed in the natural or pre-modified state by the microorganism belonging to the genus Corynebacterium. 
 For enhancing or increasing the activity of the enzyme, various methods known in the art may be applicable. Examples of the method, although they are not limited thereto, may include a method of increasing the copy number of nucleotide sequences encoding enzymes by further inserting a polynucleotide including a nucleotide sequence encoding the corresponding enzyme into a chromosome or introducing the polynucleotide into a vector system, etc., a method of replacing enzyme promoters with strong promoters, and specifically, may include a method of introducing a modification on the promoters, and a method of modifying the enzyme into one with strong activity by genetic modification. 
 Specific examples in the present invention may include a method of modifying the enzyme promoter present in the arginine operon to a promoter which is strong compared to the endogenous promoter, via modification or substitution of the promoter. An improved promoter or heterogeneous promoter with a nucleotide substitution modification may be connected instead of the promoter for the endogenous enzyme, and examples of the 5 heterogeneous promoters may include pcj7 promoter (Korean Patent No. 10-0620092), lysCPl promoter (Korean Patent No. 10-0930203), EF-Tu promoter, groEL promoter, aceA promoter, aceB promoter, etc., but are not limited thereto. 
 As used herein, the term “promoter” refers to a non-encoded nucleic acid sequence upstream of an encoding region, which includes a polymerase-binding region and has an activity of transcription initiation into mRNA of a gene downstream of the promoter, i.e., the DNA region where the polymerase binds and initiates the transcription of the gene, and is located on the 5’ region of the mRNA transcription initiation region. 
 In the present invention, the enhancement of the ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity may be performed using various methods well known in the art, and they are the same as described above. Specifically, the enhancement may be achieved by transformation of an expression vector including a polynucleotide encoding the ornithine carbamoyltransferase into a bacterial strain, but is not limited thereto. 
 As used herein, the term “transformation” refers to an introduction of DNA into a host, thereby making the inserted DNA replicable as an extrachromosomal factor or by chromosomal integration. Specifically, the transformant of the present invention may be inserted into a chromosome via homologous recombination between the sequence of a nucleic acid molecule, which has the promoter activity within a vector after the transformation of the vector including the above DNA into a host cell, and the sequence in the promoter region of the endogenous target gene, or may be retained in the form of a plasmid. 
 The method of vector transformation of the present invention may include any method that can introduce a nucleic acid into a cell, and any appropriate standard technology known in the art may be selected and performed according to each host cell. For example, electroporation, calcium phosphate (CaPOzt) precipitation, calcium chloride (CaCE) precipitation, microinjection, a polyethylene glycol (PEG) method, a DEAE-dextran method, a cationic liposome method, a lithium acetate/DMSO method, etc., may be used, but the method is not limited thereto. 
 As used herein, the term “a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium (Corynebacterium sp.)” may refer to all the strains belonging to the genus Corynebacterium having the L-arginine-producing ability, e.g., Corynebacterium glutamicum, Corynebacterium ammoniagenes, Corynebacterium thermoaminogenes, Brevibacterium 6 flavum, Brevibacterium fermentum, etc., but is not limited thereto. Specifically, Corynebacterium glutamicum may be used, but the microorganism is not limited thereto. 
 In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for producing L-arginine including culturing an L-arginine-producing microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium in proper culture media. 
 In the present invention, the microorganism culture may be performed according to methods widely known in the art, and the conditions of culture temperature, culture hours, pH of culture medium, etc., may be appropriately adjusted. The known culture methods are described in detail in references (Chmiel; Bioprozesstechnik 1. Einfuhrung in die Bioverfahrenstechnik (Gustav Fischer Verlag, Stuttgart, 1991), and Storhas; Bioreaktoren und periphere Einrichtungen (Vieweg Verlag, Braunschweig / Wiesbaden, 1994)). Additionally, culture methods may include batch culture, continuous culture, and fed-batch culture, and specifically, cultures may be performed continuously by a batch process or fed batch or repeated fed batch process, but are not limited thereto. 
 The culture media to be used should appropriately meet the required conditions of a particular strain. Culture media used for various microorganisms are already known (e.g., “Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology” from American Society for Bacteriology (Washington D.C., USA, 1981)). Carbon sources to be contained in the media may include saccharides and carbohydrates (e.g., glucose, sucrose, lactose, fructose, maltose, molasses, starch and cellulose), oils and fats (e.g., soybean oil, sunflower seed oil, peanut oil, and coconut oil), fatty acids (e.g., palmitic acid, stearic acid, and linoleic acid), alcohols (e.g., glycerol and ethanol), organic acids (e.g., acetic acid), etc. These materials may be used individually or as a mixture, but are not limited thereto. Nitrogen sources to be contained in the media may include nitrogen-containing organic compounds (e.g., peptone, yeast extract, meat gravy, malt extract, corn steep liquor, soybean meal powder, and urea), and inorganic compounds (e.g., ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate, and ammonium nitrate), and these materials may also be used individually or as a mixture, but are not limited thereto. Phosphorous sources to be contained in the media may include potassium dihydrogen phosphate or dipotassium hydrogen phosphate or an equivalent sodium-containing salt thereof, but are not limited thereto. Culture media may contain metal salts essential for growth (e.g., magnesium sulfate or iron sulfate), and essential growth-promoting materials such as amino acids and vitamins may be used, in addition to the 7 materials described above. Additionally, an appropriate precursor may be further added to the culture media. The materials to be supplied described above may be added to the media at once or appropriately during the culture. 
 The pH of culture media may be appropriately adjusted using a basic compound (e.g., sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, or ammonia) or an acidic compound (e.g., phosphoric acid or sulfuric acid). 
 Foaming may be adjusted using an antifoaming agent such as fatty acid polyglycol ester. An aerobic condition may be maintained by introducing oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas mixture, for example, air, into a culture medium. Culture temperature may be from 20°C to 45°C, and specifically, from 25°C to 40°C. Culturing may be continued until a maximum amount of the desired L-amino acid production is obtained, and specifically from 10 hours to 160 hours. L-arginine may be released into the culture medium or may remain contained in the cell. 
 Meanwhile, the method of producing L-arginine of the present invention including culturing the microorganism described above may further include a step of recovering L-arginine during the culture. That is, the method of producing L-arginine of the present invention may include culturing a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium in culture media and recovering the L-arginine from the microorganism and the culture media. The step of recovering arginine may mean to separate arginine from cells or culture media using a method of recovering arginine widely known in the art. Methods of recovering L-arginine may include centrifugation, filtration, extraction, spray, drying, evaporation, precipitation, crystallization, electrophoresis, fractional dissolution, chromatography (e.g., ion exchange, affinity, hydrophobicity, size exclusion, and high performance liquid chromatography), etc., but are not limited thereto. 
 [Mode for Invention] 
 Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in more detail with reference to the following Examples. However, these Examples are for illustrative purposes only, and the invention is not intended to be limited by these Examples. 
 Example 1: Construction of a vector with an enhanced arginine operon 8 
 In order to enhance the arginine operon on the chromosome of a microorganism, a vector where the self-promoter for N-acetylglutamyl phosphate reductase (ArgC) was deleted and substituted with a different promoter was constructed. As the substitution promoter, lysCPl (SEQ ID NO: 18 disclosed in Korean Patent No. 10-0930203), which has a strong expression-inducing activity, was used. 
 First, DNA fragments were amplified via primary polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the chromosomal DNA of a wild type strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum (Accession No: ATCC13869) as a template, along with a primer pair of SEQ ID NO: 13 (SF_pargC_PR_pDC infusion primer; 5'- CGAGCTCGGTACCCGGGCAAAGAATACGGCTTCCTTGGC-3') and SEQ ID NO: 14 (SR_pargC_PR_XbaI-XhoI-BamHI infusion/restriction enzyme primer; 5'-CTGGATCCTCGAGTCTAGAGACGGGTTAGACATGCAAAA-3') and a primer pair of SEQ ID NO: 15 (SF_pargC_PR_SpeI-ScaI-BamHI infusion/restriction enzyme primer; 5'-GACTCGAGGATCCAGTACTAGTATGATAATCAAGGTTGCAAT-3') and SEQ ID NO: 16 (SR_pargC_PR_pDC infusion primer; 5'- TGCAGGTCGACTCTAGGGTAACGCCTTCTTTCAAAG-3'). The specific conditions for PCR reaction were as follows: the PCR reaction was performed by denaturing at 95°C for 10 minutes, annealing at 55°C for 30 seconds, and elongation at 72°C for 1 minute using a PCR device (Bio-rad C1000 thermal cycler) and Pfu polymerase (Macrogen), and repeated for 28 cycles. 
 The thus-obtained primary PCR fragments were purified using fragment DNA purification kit (GeneAll), and then three DNA fragments were connected by mixing them with a pD vector, which was already prepared by digesting with Xmal-Xbal restriction enzymes. The connected DNA fragments were subjected to a reaction at 50°C for 10 minutes using the In-fusion Cloning Kit (Clontech), and thereby a pD-RargC_PR vector was constructed. 
 The insertion of the substituting promoter was performed in such a manner that lysCPl promoter was amplified using the pDZ-lysCPl (Korean Patent No. 10-0930203) as a template along with a primer pair of SEQ ID NO: 5 (SF_PlysCPl_XhoI-XbaI infusion primer; 5'-CCGTCTCTAGACTCGAGCCATCTTTTGGGGTGCGG-3') and SEQ ID NO: 6 (SR_PlysCPl_SpeI infusion primer; 5'- TTGATTATCATACTAGTCTTTGTGCACCTTTCGAT-3'), and connected by mixing them 9 with a pD-PargC_PR vector, which was already prepared by digesting with Xhol-Spel restriction enzymes. The methods of PCR and In-fusion Cloning are the same as described above, and finally a pD-PargC::lysCPl vector was constructed through the methods. 
 Example 2: Construction of a vector with enhanced ornithine carbamoyltransferase 
 In order to enhance ornithine carbamoyltransferase, one of arginine biosynthesis enzymes, a recombinant expression vector was constructed. The pll7-cj7-GFP (Korean Patent No. 10-0620092) was used as the template vector, and the nucleotide sequence encoding GFP in the template vector was removed by treating with EcoRV-Xba I restriction enzymes, and inserted with argF, derived from a wild type strain of Corynebacterium glutamicumATCC13869, and argF2 (Korean Patent No. 10-0830290). 
 The DNA fragments of the argF gene were amplified via PCR using the chromosomal DNA of a wild type strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum (Accession No: ATCC13869) as a template, along with a primer pair of SEQ ID NO: 7 (SF_argF_EcoRV infusion primer; 5'-ACGAAAGGAAACACTCGATATCATGACTTCACAACCACAGGT-3') and SEQ ID NO: 8 (SR_argF_XbaI infusion primer; 5'- GCCAAAACAGCTCTAGATTACCTCGGCTGGTGGGCCA-3'). PCR reaction was performed by denaturing at 95°C for 10 minutes, annealing at 55°C for 30 seconds, and elongation at 72°C for 2 minutes using Pfu polymerase, and repeated for 28 cycles. The thus-obtained PCR fragments were purified and mixed with pll7-cj7-GFP, which was already treated with EcoRV-Xbal restriction enzymes, and connected by the In-fusion Cloning method, and thereby a recombinant expression vector, pll7-Pcj7-argF, was constructed. 
 The argF2 gene was amplified via PCR using the chromosomal DNA of a wild type strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum (Accession No: ATCC13032) as a template, along with a primer pair of SEQ ID NO: 9 (SF_argF2_EcoRV infusion primer; 5'-ACGAAAGGAAACACTCGATATCATGGCCAGAAAACATCTGCT-3') and SEQ ID NO: 10 (SR_argF2_XbaI infusion primer; 5'- GCCAAAACAGCTCTAGACTACGCATTGATCGACCGAG-3') and Pfu polymerase (Macrogen), via PCR by denaturing at 95°C for 10 minutes, annealing at 55°C for 30 seconds, and elongation at 72°C for 2 minutes using Pfu polymerase, which was repeated for 28 cycles. 10 
 The thus-obtained PCR fragments were purified and mixed with pll7-cj7-GFP, which was already treated with EcoRV-Xbal restriction enzymes, and connected by the In-fusion Cloning kit, and thereby a recombinant expression vector, pll7-Pcj7-argF2, was constructed. 
 Additionally, a recombinant expression vector, which can simultaneously express both argF and argF2 genes, was constructed. The thus-constructed expression vector, pll7-Pcj7-argF, was treated with Notl and then pll7-Pcj7-argF2 was inserted thereinto. Specifically, PCR reaction was performed using the recombinant plasmid, pll7-Pcj7-argF2, as a template, along with SEQ ID NO: 11 (SF_Pcj7_argF2_NotI infusion primer; 5'-CCTTTTTGCGGCGGCCGCAGAAACATCCCAGCGCTACT-3') and SEQ ID NO: 12 (SR_argF2_NotI infusion primer; 5'- CACCGCGGTGGCGGCCGCCGCAAAAAGGCCATCCGTCA-3') primer and Pfu polymerase, by denaturing at 95°C for 10 minutes, annealing at 55°C for 30 seconds, and elongation at 72°C for 2.5 minutes, and was repeated for 28 cycles. The thus-obtained PCR fragments were purified and mixed with pll7-Pcj7-argF, which was already treated with Notl restriction enzyme, and connected by the In-fusion Cloning kit, and finally a recombinant expression vector, pll7-Pcj7-argF/Pcj7-argF2, was constructed. 
 Example 3: Construction of a strain having a recombinant vector inserted therein 3-1. Insertion of a vector with an enhanced arginine operon 
 In order to substitute a self-promoter of an arginine operon on the chromosome of Corynebacterium, pD-PargC::lysCPl, the recombinant vector constructed in Example 1, was transformed into an existing arginine-producing Corynebacterium strain, and thereby a Corynebacterium strain inserted with a recombinant vector was constructed. Specifically, lysCPl promoter sequence was inserted into the chromosome by transforming pD-PargC::lysCPl, the recombinant vector constructed in Example 1, into the existing arginine-producing strains of KCCM10741P (Korean Patent No. 10-07916590) and ATCC21831, thereby substituting the self-promoter sequence possessed by the parental strain with the promoter sequence of the vector via homologous recombination. 
 In performing the transformation, the recombinant vector was first inserted into KCCM10741P and ATCC21831 via an electric pulse method (Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 1999 Oct; 52(4): 541-5), and the strains with the insertions on their chromosome by the 11 recombination of homologous sequences were selected in media containing 25 mg/L kanamycin. The selected primary strains were subjected to cross-over, and thereby those strains, where the promoters were substituted with lysCPl promoter and the vector was removed, were selected. The presence of promoter substitution in the final transformed strains was confirmed by PCR using a primer pair of SEQ ID NO: 5 and SEQ ID NO: 6, and the strains were named as KCCM10741 PAPargC: lysCP 1 and ATCC2183 lAPargC: :lysCPl. 3-2. Insertion of a vector with enhanced ornithine carbamovltransferase 
 The recombinant expression vectors, pll7-Pcj7-argF, pll7-Pcj7-argF2, and pi 17-Pcj7-argF/Pcj7-argF2 constructed in Example 2, was inserted into the strain KCCM10741P_APargC::lysCPl and ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl by electric pulse method, selected in media containing 25 mg/L kanamycin, and the strains further expressing argF, argF2, and argF/argF2 were finally constructed. The strains were named as KCCM1074 lP_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj 7-argF, KCCM10741P_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7-argF2, KCCM1074 lP_APargC: :lysCP l_Pcj 7-argF/Pcj7-argF2, ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7-argF, ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7-argF2, and ATCC2183 l_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7-argF/Pcj7-argF2, and among them, KCCM10741P_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7-argF2 was renamed as CA06-2044, and deposited at Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM) under the Budapest Treaty on December 9, 2013 under the accession number KCCM11498P. 
 Example 4: Evaluation of constructed strains 
 In order to examine the effect of enhancement of the arginine operon and ornithine carbamoyltransferase on arginine-producing ability using Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM1074 IP APargC:: lysCP 1, KCCM10741 PAPargC:: lysCP l_Pcj 7-argF, KCCM10741P APargC:: ly sCP l_Pcj 7-argF2, KCCM 10741 PAPargC:: lysCP 1 _Pcj 7- argF/Pcj7-argF2, ATCC2183 1 APargC:: lysCPl, ATCC21831 APargC: lysCP 1 Pcj7-argF, ATCC2183 l_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7-argF2, and ATCC2183 l_APargC::lysCPlPcj7- argF/Pcj7-argF2, which are arginine-producing strains constructed in Example 3, they were 12 cultured as shown below. In particular, Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM10741P and ATCC21831, which are the parental strains, were used as control, and a platinum loop of the strains was respectively inoculated onto a 250 mL comer-baffled flask containing 25 mL (6% glucose, 3% ammonium sulfate, 0.1% potassium phosphate, 0.2% magnesium sulfate heptahydrate, 1.5% com steep liquor (CSL), 1% NaCl, 0.5% yeast extract, and 100 pg/L biotin, pH 7.2) of a production medium, and incubated at 30°C at 200 rpm for 48 hours. Upon completion of culturing, the amount of L-arginine production was measured by HPLC, and the results are shown in Table 1 below. 
 [Table 1] 
 Confirmation of arginine-producing abilities by parent strain and recombinant strains 
 Strain OD Cone, of arginine te/L) Cone, of ornithine (g/L) KCCM10741P 91 3.0 0.2 KCCM10741P _APargC::lysCPl 72 2.2 1.9 KCCM10741P _APargC:: ly sCP 1 Pcj 7-argF 69 4.3 0.2 KCCM10741P APargC::lysCPl Pcj7-argF2 70 4.1 0.5 KCCM10741P APargC::lysCPl Pcj7-argF/Pcj7-argF2 69 4.5 0.2 ATCC21831 102 4.2 0.3 ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl 86 3.2 2.9 ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7 -argF 86 5.5 0.3 ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7 -argF2 88 5.3 0.6 ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl_Pcj7 -argF/Pcj7-argF2 85 5.6 0.3 13 
 As shown in Table 1 above, the strains, where the genes encoding arginine operon and ornithine carbamoyltransferase were simultaneously enhanced, showed a maximum of 50% increase in arginine-producing ability compared to that of control. Additionally, the increases in arginine concentration and ornithine concentration, shown in the enhancement of the arginine operon alone (KCCM10741P_APargC::lysCPl and ATCC21831_APargC::lysCPl), were solved by introducing argF, argF2 or argF and argF2, and eventually showing the result of increase in arginine concentration. 
 From the foregoing, one of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains will be able to understand that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without modifying the technical concepts or essential characteristics of the present invention. In this regard, the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein are only for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention. On the contrary, the present invention is intended to cover not only the exemplary embodiments but also various alternatives, modifications, equivalents and other embodiments that may be included within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. 14 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 'INTERNATIONAL FORM 
 r n To. CJ Cheiljedaag Corporation. CJ CHEIUSDANG CENTER, 330, DONGBD-RO, JUNG-GU SEOUL 100-400, REPUBLIC OF KOREA .RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL issued pursuant to Rule '7,1 by the INTERNATIONAL depository authority identified at the bottom of this page 
 1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE: MICROORGANISM 
 Identification reference given by the DEPOSITOR : C&amp;iynebacteritim. gfutcmimim CAQ6-2044 
 Access:·:'·': number given by the INTERNATIONAL· DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY; KCCM11498P 
 B. SCIENTIFIC DESCRIPTION AND/OR PROPOSED TAXONOMIC DESIGNATION 
 The microorganism identified under I above was accompanied, by: □ a sdettfific. description □ a proposed taxonomic designation (Mark with a Cross where applicable) 
 FI. RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE 
 This International Depositary Authority accepts the miaroprgatiisra identified: under I shove, which was received by ft on December. 09. 2013; (date of the origira· deposit)1 
 iV. 1NTIIRNAT!ONAT. DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY 
 Name. : Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms Address : Yurim B/D 45, Hong]coae-2ga - gii Seodaemurt-ge SEOUL :120-861 Republic of Korea 
 Signature (s) of person til) having the power to represent the International Depositary Authority or or authorized official is}:-.·.;,.,,,.,.,,.., Date'·. December, 09. 2013. :’ .iVIA: T 1 Where Rule. 6,4(d) applies, such date is the date on which the status of international depositary authority USs acquired, where a deposit made outside the Budapest Treaty after the acquisition of the Status: of international depositary authority is converted into a deposit under' the Budapest Treaty, such date is the date on which the microorganism was received by the international depositary authority. Form 355/4 Sole page 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
