
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [DESCRIPTION] 
 [TITLE OF THE INVENTION] 
 Shewanella oneidensis-derived protein expressing microorganism and L-amino acid 
 producing method using same 
 [TECHNICAL FIELD] 
 A microorganism expressing a foreign protein and a method for producing L-amino acid 
 using thereof are provided. The microorganism expressing a foreign protein may have improved 
 L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity compared to the wild type. 
 [BACKGROUND ART] 
 A Genus Corynebacterium microorganism is a gram-positive microorganism that is 
 widely used in production of L-amino acid. L-amino acid is used in animal feed, human 
 pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries and is produced by fermentation using a Corynebacterium 
 strain. 
 Many attempts have been made to improve the method for production of L-amino acid 
 using a Corynebacterium strain. Among them, there have been studies to improve a 
 Corynebacterium strain producing L-amino acid by destroying a specific gene or attenuating 
 expression using recombinant DNA technology. In addition, there have been studies to study the 
 effect on L-amino acid production by amplifying a gene involved in biosynthesis of each L-amino 
 acid and to improve a Corynebacterium strain producing L-amino acid. Nevertheless, there is still 
 a need to develop a strain with improved productivity of L-amino acid. 
 [DISCLOSURE] 
 [TECHNICAL PROBLEM] 
 One example provides a microorganism expressing a foreign protein. The foreign protein is a protein derived from a heterogeneous microorganism of the microorganism, and may be a protein whose lysine exportation function is newly discovered in the present description. The microorganism expressing a foreign protein may have improved exportation ability and/or productivity of L-amino acid, compared to a homogenous microorganism which does not express the foreign protein. 
 Another example provides a composition for producing L-amino acid comprising the 
 microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 Other example provides a method for production of L-amino acid, comprising culturing 
 the microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 The microorganism may be a Genus Corynebacterium microorganism. 
 [TECHNICAL SOLUTION] 
 In the present description, for the purpose of increasing the L-amino acid productivity of 
 a Genus Corynebacterium microorganism, it was attempted to improve the strain by searching for 
 and introducing a novel exporting protein of L-amino acid. Described using L-lysine as a 
 representative example, in general, there is a method of improving the L-lysine yield of the strain 
 or increasing the L-lysine product quantity per hour in order to increase the lysine productivity. 
 The L-lysine exporting protein is a membrane protein exporting lysine produced thorough 
 biosynthesis, and the improvement of this protein is important for increasing the lysine yield and 
 productivity. However, the increase in the expression level of the L-lysine exporting protein (lysE, 
 Ncgl1214) possessed by the Genus Corynebacterium microorganism has a limit in improving the 
 lysine productivity. 
 Accordingly, in the present description, a new foreign L-amino acid exporting protein 
 with high L-amino acid exportation activity was searched, and by introducing this to a lysine producing strain, a recombinant strain with improved L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity was provided. 
 In the present description, as a representative example of the new foreign L-amino acid 
 exporting protein, a novel L-amino acid exporting protein derived from Shewanella oneidensis and 
 a gene encoding this were discovered, and as the result of expressing this to a microorganism 
 producing L-amino acid, it was confirmed that the exportation ability/productivity of L-amino acid 
 was significantly improved, compared to a microorganism in which the gene was not expressed. 
 One example provides a microorganism expressing a foreign protein. The foreign protein 
 is a protein derived from a heterogeneous microorganism to the microorganism, and may be a 
 protein whose lysine exportation function was newly discovered. The microorganism expressing 
 a foreign protein may have improved exportation ability and/or productivity of L-amino acid, for 
 example, one or more kinds of amino acids selected from the group consisting of L-lysine, L 
 arginine and L-histidine. 
 Another example provides a composition for production of L-amino acid comprising the 
 microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 Other example provides a method for production of L-amino acid, comprising culturing 
 the microorganism expressing a foreign protein. 
 The microorganism may be a Genus Corynebacterium microorganism. 
 The L-amino acid may comprise one or more kinds of amino acids selected from the group 
 consisting of L-lysine, L-arginine and L-histidine. 
 Hereinafter, it will be described in more detail. 
 In the present description, the foreign protein may be a protein derived from a 
 microorganism belonging to a different genus from the parent strain (microorganism before mutation) or a different species of microorganism, and for example, it may be a membrane protein derived from a microorganism other than a microorganism belonging to the genus 
 Corynebacterium, which is a protein having the exportation ability of one or more kinds of amino 
 acids selected from the group consisting of L-lysine, L-arginine and L-histidine, newly discovered 
 in the present description. In one example, the foreign protein may be a membrane protein derived 
 from a genus Shewanella microorganism, for example, Shewanella oneidensis (for example, 
 represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1); a protein (e.g., membrane protein) 
 having a sequence identity or homology of60% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 
 % or more, 90% or more, 91% or more, 92% or more, 93% or more, 94% or more, 95% or more, 
 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, 99% or more, 99.5% or more, or 99.9% or more to the 
 protein. 
 The microorganism may comprise or express one or more kinds of the foreign protein. 
 The microorganism expressing a foreign protein may be a recombinant microorganism in which a 
 polynucleotide encoding the foreign protein described above is introduced. In one example, the 
 polynucleotide encoding the protein of SEQ ID NO: 1 may be represented by the nucleic acid 
 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a sequence having a sequence identity or homology of 60% or more, 
 % or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 8 5 % or 9 2 % or more, 90% or more, 91% or more, more, 
 93% or more, 94% or more, 95% or more, 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, 99% or more, 
 99.5% or more, or 99.9% or more with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 The microorganism expressing a foreign protein may be a microorganism producing L 
 amino acid having the L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity. 
 In the present description, the term "L-amino acid producing microorganism" may be used 
 to mean the case that the microorganism has the increased L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity as the microorganism having the L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity is mutated to express a foreign protein as described above and/or the microorganism has the L amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity as a microorganism not having the L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity is mutated to express the foreign protein. In the present description, "microorganism" encompasses single-celled bacteria, and may be used interchangeably with "cell". In the present description, in order to distinguish the microorganism before being mutated to express the foreign protein from the mutated microorganism, it may be expressed as a "parent microorganism (or parent strain) or host cell". 
 The L-amino acid may be one or more kinds of amino acids selected from the group 
 consisting of L-lysine, L-arginine and L-histidine, for example, L-lysine. 
 In one example, the microorganism may be selected from all microorganisms having the 
 L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity. In one example, the microorganism, for 
 example, parent strain before mutation may be (1) a microorganism having L-amino acid 
 exportation ability and/or productivity naturally, or (2) a microorganism having L-amino acid 
 exportation ability and/or productivity or with improved L-amino acid exportation ability and/or 
 productivity, as mutation is introduced to the microorganism having L-amino acid exportation 
 ability and/or productivity naturally or a strain having significantly low L-amino acid exportation 
 ability and/or productivity. 
 In one specific example, the microorganism may be one or more kinds selected from the 
 group consisting of (1) a microorganism having L-amino acid exportation ability and/or 
 productivity naturally or (2) all the genus Corynebacteriummicroorganisms having L-amino acid 
 exportation ability and/or productivity or with improved L-amino acid exportation ability and/or 
 productivity, as mutation is introduced to the microorganism having L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity naturally or a strain having significantly low L-amino acid exportation ability and/or productivity. The genus Corynebacterium microorganism may include 
 Corynebacterium glutamicum, Corynebacterium ammoniagenes, Brevibacterium 
 lactofermentum, Brevibacterium flavum, Corynebacterium thermoaminogenes, 
 Corynebacterium efficiens, and the like, but not definitely limited thereto. Much more 
 specifically, the genus Corynebacterium microorganism may be Corynebacterium glutamicum. 
 In one example, the microorganism expressing a foreign protein may be a microorganism 
 in which mutation to express the foreign protein is introduced. As such, the microorganism 
 mutated to express the foreign protein, may have increased L-amino acid exportation ability and/or 
 productivity, compared to a homogeneous non-modified microorganism. The non-modified 
 microorganism is a microorganism which does not express the foreign protein, and may mean a 
 homogeneous microorganism in which mutation to express the foreign protein is not introduced 
 or a microorganism before introducing the mutation. 
 In the present description, "mutation to express a foreign protein" may mean all 
 manipulations that allow a parent strain to express the foreign protein described above. In one 
 example, the mutation to express a foreign protein may introduce a polynucleotide encoding the 
 foreign protein or a recombinant vector comprising the same into the parent strain. 
 The "microorganism in which mutation to express a foreign protein is introduced" or 
 "microorganism mutated to express a foreign protein" may be a microorganism in which a 
 polynucleotide encoding the foreign protein or a recombinant vector comprising the same is 
 introduced, and compared to the non-modified microorganism, the L-amino acid exportation 
 ability and/or productivity are imparted or increased. 
 In one example, the parent strain may be wild type or mutated so that the exportation ability and/or productivity of L-amino acid are increased, for example, the protein activity involved in biosynthesis or metabolism of L-amino acid is controlled (increased (promoted) or reduced 
 (inhibited)), compared to the wild type, but not limited thereto. 
 In one specific example, the microorganism producing L-amino acid in which the foreign 
 protein is expressed may be accession number KCCM_12827P. 
 In the present description, that a polynucleotide (which may be used interchangeably with 
 "gene") or a polypeptide (which may be used interchangeably with "protein") "comprises a 
 specific nucleic acid sequence or an amino acid sequence, consists of a specific nucleic acid 
 sequence or an amino acid sequence, or is represented by a specific nucleic acid sequence or an 
 amino acid sequence" is an interchangeable expression with the equivalent meaning, and may 
 mean that the polynucleotide or polypeptide necessarily comprises the specific nucleic acid 
 sequence or amino acid sequence, and may be interpreted as comprising a "substantially equivalent 
 sequence" in which a mutation (deletion, substitution, modification and/or addition) is added to 
 the specific nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence within the range of maintaining the 
 original function and/or desired function of the polynucleotide or polypeptide (or not excluding 
 the mutation). 
 In one example, the nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence provided in the present 
 description may comprise that modified by common mutagenesis, for example, direct evolution 
 and/or site-directed mutagenesis, and the like, within the range of maintaining its original function 
 and/or desired function. In the present description, unless otherwise described, that a 
 polynucleotide or polypeptide "comprises a specific nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence 
 or consists of the sequence" may mean that the polynucleotide or polypeptide (i) necessarily 
 comprises the specific nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence, or (ii) consists of the amino acid sequence having a homology of 60% or more, 65% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% or more, 90% or more, 91% or more, 92% or more, 93% or more, 94% or more, 95% or more, 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, 99% or more, 99.5% or more, or 99.9% or more to the specific nucleic acid sequence or amino acid sequence and maintains the original function and/or desired function. In the present description, the original function may be lysine exporting protein function (in case of amino acid sequence) or function encoding a protein having the lysine exporting protein function (in case of nucleic acid sequence), and the desired function may mean function to increase or give the exportation ability and/or productivity of L-amino acid 
 (for example, L-lysine, L-arginine, L-histidine or a combination thereof) of a microorganism. 
 Herein, the term 'homology' or 'identity' means a degree related to two given amino acid 
 sequences or nucleotide sequences and may be expressed as a percentage. The terms homology 
 and identity are often used interchangeably. 
 The sequence homology or identity of the conserved polynucleotide or polypeptide is 
 determined by a standard arrangement algorithm, and a default gap penalty established by a 
 program to be used. Substantially, a homologous or identical sequence may be hybridized under 
 moderate or high stringent conditions along the entire sequence or at least about 50%, 60%, 70%, 
 % or 90% of the full-length. It is apparent that hybridization comprises polynucleotides 
 containing common codons or codons considering codon degeneracy in polynucleotides. 
 Whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have homology, similarity or 
 identity, may be determined using a known computer algorithm such as "FASTA" program, for 
 example, using a default parameter as Pearson et al (1988) [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85]: 2444. 
 Otherwise, it may be determined using Needleman-Wunsch algorithm (Needleman and Wunsch, 
 1970, J. Mol. Biol. 48: 443-453), as performed in Needleman program of EMBOSS package 
 (EMBOSS: The European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite, Rice et al., 2000, Trends 
 Genet. 16: 276-277) (version 5.0.0 or later version) (including GCG program package (Devereux, 
 J., et al, Nucleic Acids Research 12: 387 (1984)), BLASTP, BLASTN, FASTA (Atschul, [S.] [F.,] 
 [ET AL, J MOLEC BIOL 215]: 403 (1990); Guide to Huge Computers, Martin J. Bishop, [ED.,] 
 Academic Press, San Diego,1994, and [CARILLO ETA/.](1988) SIAM J Applied Math 48: 1073). 
 For example, using BLAST, or ClustalW of National Center for Biotechnology Information 
 Database, the homology, similarity or identity may be determined. 
 The homology, similarity or identity of the polynucleotide or polypeptide may be 
 determined by comparing the sequence information, as known in Smith and Waterman, Adv. Appl. 
 Math (1981) 2:482, for example, using GAP computer program such as Needleman et al. (1970), 
 J Mol Biol. 48:443. In summary, the GAP program may be defined as a value of dividing the total 
 number of symbols in the shorter of two sequences by the number of similarly arranged symbols 
 (namely, nucleotides or amino acids). The default parameter for the GAP program may include (1) 
 a binary system comparison matrix (containing a value of 1 for identity and 0 for non-identity) and 
 an aggravated comparison matrix of Gribskov et al(1986) Nucl. Acids Res. 14: 6745, described by 
 Schwartz and Dayhoff, eds., Atlas Of Protein Sequence And Structure, National Biomedical 
 Research Foundation, pp. 353-358 (1979) (or EDNAFULL (EMBOSS version of NCBI NUC4.4) 
 substitution matrix); (2) a penalty of 3.0 for each gap and an additional 0.10 penalty for each 
 symbol in each gap (or a gap opening penalty 10, a gap extension penalty 0.5); and (3) no penalty 
 for an end gap. 
 In addition, whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have homology, 
 similarity or identity may be confirmed by comparing sequences by a southern hybridization 
 experiment under defined stringent conditions, and the defined appropriate hybridization condition may be determined by a method known to those skilled in the art, within the range of the corresponding technology (for example, J. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory 
 Manual, 2nd Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory press, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, 1989; 
 F.M. Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York). 
 The nucleic acid sequence described in the present description may have various modifications in 
 a coding region within the range that does not change the amino acid sequence and/or function of 
 a protein expressed from the coding region, in consideration of a preferred codon in a 
 microorganism to express the protein (lysine exporting protein) due to degeneracy of the codon. 
 In one example, the polynucleotide comprising a specific nucleic acid sequence provided 
 in the present description may be interpreted to comprise not only the specific nucleic acid 
 sequence or substantially equivalent nucleic acid sequence thereto, but also a polynucleotide 
 fragment comprising a complementary nucleic acid sequence to the specific nucleic acid sequence. 
 Specifically, the polynucleotide having complementarity may be hybridized at a Tm value 
 appropriately adjustable by those skilled in the art on purposes, for example a Tm value of 55°C, 
 °C, 63°C or 65°C, and analyzed under the condition described below: This condition is described 
 specifically in the known literature. For example, a condition in which genes having high 
 complementarity of 60% or more, 65% or more, 70% or more, 75% or more, 80% or more, 85% 
 or more, 90% or more, 91% or more, 92% or more, 93% or more, 94% or more, 95% or more, 96% 
 or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, 98% or more, 99.5% or more, or 99.9% or more are 
 hybridized and genes having lower complementarity are not hybridized, or a common washing 
 condition of southern hybridization, which is a condition of washing once, specifically, twice to 3 
 times, at the salt concentration and temperature corresponding to 60°C, 1x SSC(saline-sodium 
 citrate buffer), and 0.1%(w/v) SDS (Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate); 60°C, 0.1x SSC, and 0.1% SDS; or 
 68°C, 0.1x SSC, and 0.1% SDS, or the like, but not limited thereto. In the hybridization, it may be 
 required that two nucleotides have a complementary sequence, or a mismatch between bases may 
 be allowed according to the severity level of hybridization. The term "complementary" may be 
 used to describe the relationship between nucleotide bases capable of hybridizing with each other. 
 For example, in case of DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine and cytosine is 
 complementary to guanine. The appropriate severity level of hybridizing polynucleotides is 
 dependent on the length of polynucleotides and degree of complementarity, and this is well known 
 to the related technical field (See Sambrook et al., supra,9.50-9.51, 11.7-11.8). 
 The introduction of the polynucleotide or vector may be performed by selecting a known 
 transformation method by those skilled in the art. In the present description, the term 
 "transformation" means introducing a polynucleotide encoding a target protein (foreign protein) 
 or a vector comprising the same into a host cell to express a protein encoded by the polynucleotide 
 in the host cell. As long as it can be expressed in the host cell, whether inserted and located in the 
 chromosome of the host cell or located extrachromosomally, the transformed polynucleotide may 
 include all of them. In addition, the polynucleotide includes DNA and/or RNA encoding a target 
 protein. As long as the polynucleotide is introduced and expressed in a host cell, the form in which 
 it is introduced is not limited. For example, the polynucleotide may be introduced into a host cell 
 in a form of an expression cassette which is a gene structure comprising all elements required to 
 be expressed by itself. The expression cassette may generally comprise regulatory elements such 
 as a promoter which is operably linked to the polynucleotide, a transcription termination signal, a 
 ribosome binding site and/or a translation termination signal, and the like. The expression cassette 
 may be in a form of an expression vector capable of self-replication. In addition, the polynucleotide 
 may be introduced into a host cell in its own form and operably linked to a sequence required for expression in the host cell. In the above, the term "operably connected" may mean that expression regulatory elements (e.g., promoter) and the polynucleotide are functionally linked in order that the expression regulatory elements perform regulation of transcription (e.g., transcription initiation) of the polynucleotide encoding a target protein (foreign protein). Operable linking may be performed using a genetic recombination technique known in the art, and for example, may be performed by conventional site-specific DNA cleavage and ligation, but is not limited thereto. 
 The method for transforming the polynucleotide into a host cell may be performed by any 
 method of introducing a nucleic acid into a cell (microorganism), and may be performed by 
 appropriately selecting a transformation technique known in the art according to the host cell. As 
 the known transformation method, electroporation, calcium phosphate (CaPO 4) precipitation, 
 calcium chloride (CaCl2) precipitation, microinjection, polyethylene glycol (PEG) precipitation 
 (polyethylene glycol-mediated uptake), DEAE-dextran method, cation liposome method, 
 lipofection, lithium acetate-DMSO method, and the like may be illustrated, but not limited thereto. 
 The introduction (insertion) into a host cell genome (chromosome) of the polynucleotide 
 may be performed by appropriately selecting a known method by those skilled in the art, and for 
 example, may be performed using an RNA-guided endonuclease system (or CRISPR system; for 
 example, one or more selected from the group consisting of (a) an RNA-guided endonuclease (e.g., 
 Cas9 protein, etc.), its encoding gene, or a vector comprising the gene; and (b) a mixture 
 comprising a guide RNA (e.g., single guide RNA (sgRNA), etc.), its encoding DNA, or a vector 
 comprising the DNA (for example, a mixture of a RNA-guided endonuclease protein and a guide 
 RNA, etc.), a complex (for example, ribonucleic acid fusion protein (RNP), a recombinant vector 
 (For example, a vector comprising an RNA-guided endonuclease encoding gene and a guide RNA 
 encoding DNA together, etc.)), but not limited thereto. 
 Herein, the term "vector" means a DNA product containing the nucleotide sequence of a 
 polynucleotide encoding the target protein operably linked to a suitable regulatory sequence so as 
 to express the target protein in a suitable host. The regulatory sequence may comprise a promoter 
 capable of initiating transcription, any operator sequence for regulating transcription, a sequence 
 encoding a suitable mRNA ribosome binding site, and/or a sequence regulating termination of 
 transcription and/or translation. The vector may be expressed independently of the genome of the 
 host cell or may be integrated into the genome of the host cell, after transformation into an 
 appropriate host cell. 
 The vector usable herein is not particularly limited as long as it is capable of replicating 
 in a host cell, and may be selected from all commonly used vectors. The example of the commonly 
 used vector may include natural or recombinant plasmids, cosmids, viruses, bacteriophages, and 
 the like. For example, for the vector, as a phage vector or cosmid vector, pWE15, M13, MBL3, 
 MBL4, IXII, ASHII, APII, t10, t11, Charon4A, and Charon21A, and the like may be used, and as 
 a plasmid vector, pBR-based, pUC-based, pBluescriptll-based, pGEM-based, pTZ-based, pCL 
 based and pET-based, and the like, may be used. Specifically, pDZ, pACYC177, pACYC184, pCL, 
 pECCG117, pUC19, pBR322, pMW118, pCC1BAC vectors, and the like may be illustrated, but 
 not limited thereto. 
 The vector usable herein may be a known expression vector and/or a vector for insertion 
 into a host cell chromosome of a polynucleotide. The insertion into a host cell chromosome of a 
 polynucleotide may be conducted by any method known in the art, for example, homologous 
 recombination or CRISPR system, but not limited thereto. The vector may further comprise a 
 selection marker to confirm insertion into the chromosome. The selection marker is to select a 
 transformed cell by the vector, that is, to confirm insertion of the polynucleotide, and it may be selected among genes giving selectable phenotypes such as drug resistance, auxotrophic requirement, resistance to cytotoxic agents, or expression of a surface protein and used. As only the cells expressing the selection marker are survived or exhibit other expression traits in an environment treated with a selective agent, transformed cells may be selected. 
 Other example provides a method for increasing L-amino acid exportation activity and/or 
 productivity of the microorganism or a method for giving L-amino acid exportation activity and/or 
 productivity to the microorganism, comprising introducing (transforming) the aforementioned 
 foreign protein, its encoding polynucleotide or a recombinant vector comprising the 
 polynucleotide into a microorganism is provided. 
 The foreign protein, polynucleotide and microorganism are same as described above. 
 Other example provides a method for production of L-amino acid, comprising culturing 
 the aforementioned L-amino acid producing microorganism in a medium. The method may further 
 comprise recovering L-amino acid from the cultured microorganism, medium or both of them, 
 after the culturing. 
 In the method, the culturing the microorganism may be performed by a known batch 
 culturing method, a continuous culturing method, a fed-batch culturing method, and the like, but 
 not particularly limited thereto. Then, the culturing condition, is not particularly limited thereto, 
 but the optimal pH (for example, pH 5 to 9, specifically, pH 6 to 8, most specifically, pH 6.8) may 
 be adjusted using a basic compound (e.g.: sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or ammonia) 
 or an acidic compound (e.g.: phosphoric acid or sulfuric acid), and the aerobic condition may be 
 maintained by introducing oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas mixture to a culture. The culturing 
 temperature may be maintained at 20 to 45°C, or 25 to 40°C, and it may be cultured for about 10 
 to 160 hours, but not limited thereto. The L-amino acid produced by the culturing may be secreted to a medium or remain in cells. 
 The medium usable in the culturing may individually use one or more kinds selected from 
 the group consisting of sugar and carbohydrate (e.g.: glucose, sucrose, lactose, fructose, maltose, 
 molasse, starch and cellulose), oil and fat (e.g.: soybean oil, sunflower oil, peanut oil and coconut 
 oil), fatty acid (e.g.: palmitic acid, stearic acid and linoleic acid), alcohol (e.g.: glycerol and 
 ethanol), organic acid (e.g.: acetic acid), and the like, or mix and use two kinds or more of them, 
 as a carbon source, but not limited thereto. As a nitrogen source, one or more kinds selected from 
 the group consisting of nitrogen-containing organic compounds (e.g.: peptone, yeast extract, meet 
 juice, malt extract, corn steep liquid, soybean flower and urea), inorganic compounds (e.g.: 
 ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate and 
 ammonium nitrate), and the like may be used individually or in a mixture of two or more of them, 
 but not limited thereto. As a phosphorus source, one or more kinds selected from the group 
 consisting of potassium dihydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, sodium 
 containing salts corresponding thereto, and the like may be used individually or in a mixture of 
 two or more of them, but not limited thereto. In addition, the medium may comprise an essential 
 growth promoting substance such as other metal salts (e.g.: magnesium sulfate or iron sulfate), 
 amino acid and/or vitamins. 
 The recovering L-amino acid may be collecting desired amino acid from a medium, 
 culture solution or microorganism, using a known appropriate method in the art according to the 
 culturing method. For example, the revering may be performed by one or more methods selected 
 from centrifugation, filtering, anion exchange chromatography, crystallization, HPLC, and the like. 
 The method for recovering L-amino acid may additionally comprise purification before, 
 simultaneously, or after that. 
 [ADVANTAGEOUS EFFECTS] 
 In the present description, a technology increasing exportation ability and/or productivity 
 of L-amino acid of a microorganism is provided, and for this, a foreign protein whose exportation 
 ability of L-amino acid is newly discovered, and a technology capable of improving productivity 
 of L-amino acid compared to a parent strain, by introducing the foreign protein to a microorganism 
 are provided. 
 [MODE FOR INVENTION] 
 Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in more detail by examples, but they 
 are illustrative only, and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. It is apparent 
 to those skilled in the art that the examples described below may be modified without departing 
 from the essential gist of the invention. 
 Example 1: L-lysine exporting gene search and selection 
 In order to search an exporting gene with high L-lysine exportation activity compared to 
 a L-lysine exporter (lysE, Ncgl1214) inherently possessed by a Genus Corynebacterium 
 microorganism, RPS-BLAST searching using NCBI CDD (Common Domain Database) and 
 BLAST searching using KEGG Protein Database were performed. Candidate proteins considered 
 as membrane proteins capable of exporting L-lysine were selected. 
 [Table 1] 
 L-lysine exporting membrane protein candidate group 
 No. Strain Protein registration Genome registration number number 1 Shewanella oneidensis MR-i WP_011072781.1 NC_004347.2 2 Corynebacteriumglutamicum ATCC]3032 WP_003854734.1 NC_003450.3 3 Aeromonas allosaccharophila WP_042063605.1 NZCDCB01000123 4 BacilluspseudofirmusOF4 WP_012958260.1 NC_013791.2 
 Bacillus halodurans C-125 WP_010899078.1 NC_002570.2 6 Natrialbaaegyptia WP006666837.1 NZAOIP01000039.1 7 Haloquadratumwalsbyi WP_011571763.1 NC_008212.1 8 Thermotoga maritima MSB8 WP_004083139.1 NC_000853.1 9 Pyrodictium delaneyi WP_055407773.1 NZCP013011.1 Bacteroidescoprophilus WP_008140089.1 NZEQ973631.1 11 Shewanella atlanticaHA W-EB5 WP_126504868.1 NZRXNVO1000002.1 
 Example 2: Production of foreign membrane protein gene-introduced vector 
 The membrane protein derived from Shewanella oneidensis (Son) selected in Example 1 
 has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. The information (accession number NC_004347.2) 
 of genes encoding the membrane protein and surrounding nucleic acid sequences was obtained 
 from U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH GenBank). DNA synthesis was performed, based on 
 the corresponding gene sequence (Cosmo genetech, Korea). To amplify genes, PCR (SolgTM Pfu 
 X DNA polymerase) was performed using the synthesized DNA as a template and primers (Table 
 2) of SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4 (Table 3). As a result, a gene fragment of 651 bp including the gene 
 (SEQ ID NO: 2) of 621 bp was obtained. 
 [Table 2] 
 Primer sequence 
 No. Name DNA sequence (5'-3') SEQ ID NO: 3 Son-F TAGAGGAGACACAACATGCAAACGGCGTTTATTCA SEQ ID NO: 4 Son-R TAGATGTCGGGCCCATTAAATTGCGGCAAGGTATGG SEQ ID NO: 5 PgapA-F AATGAGTTCCTCGAGAAACGACCGAGCCTATTGGG SEQ ID NO: 6 PgapA-R ACGCCGTTTGCATGTTGTGTCTCCTCTAAAGATTG SEQ ID NO: 7 pDZTn-1 ACGACGCTGGTATTTCTCCC SEQ ID NO: 8 pDZTn-2 TGATTGTCGATATGACCGGG 
 [Table 3] 
 PCR performance condition 
 Stage Temperature Time Initialization 95 °C 2 minutes Denaturation 95 °C 20 seconds 
 Annealing 62 0C 40 seconds Elongation 72 °C 0.5-1 minute Post Elongation 72 °C 5 minutes To secure the gapA promoter derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR (SolgTM 
 Pfu-X DNA polymerase) was performed using genome DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum 
 ATCC 13032 as a template and primers (Table 2) of SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6 (Table 3). The amplified 
 gapA promoter site and the obtained Shewanella oneidensis-derived gene fragment and the vector 
 pDZTn cut with NdeI restriction enzyme (Korean Patent No. 10-1126041) were connected using 
 Gibson Assembly (DG Gibson et al., NATURE METHODS, VOL.6 NO.5, MAY 2009, 
 NEBuilder HiFi DNA Assembly Master Mix) method, and then transformed to E. coli DH5a, and 
 smeared in a LB solid medium including kanamycin (25 mg/l). To select a colony transformed 
 with the vector in which the desired gene and pDZTn were connected, PCR was performed using 
 primers of SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8 (Table 2). A plasmid was obtained using a commonly known 
 plasmid extraction method from the selected colony, and this plasmid was named pDZTn-PgapA 
 Son. 
 Example 3: Production of foreign membrane protein-introduced strain 
 After transforming Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11016P strain producing L 
 lysine (Korean Patent No. 10-0159812) using the produced pDZTn-PgapA-Son vector by 
 electroporation (Appl. Microbiol.Biotechnol. (1999) 52:541-545), through a secondary cross 
 process, a strain in which PgapA-Son was inserted between the transposon genes was obtained. 
 Using primers (Table 4) of SEQ ID NO: 9 and SEQ ID NO: 10 capable of amplifying adjacent 
 sites including the position in which the corresponding gene was inserted, PCR and sequencing 
 were performed, and the corresponding gene manipulation was confirmed. The strain obtained in 
 this way was named Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11016P::PgapA-Son. 
 [Table 4] 
 Primer sequence 
 No. Name DNA sequence SEQ ID NO: 9 Tn-1 TAAGGCACCGCAGAATGTAG SEQ ID NO: 10 Tn-2 TAGGACTCACCATCACCGGC 
 Example 4: Comparison of L-amino acid productivity in foreign membrane protein 
 introduced KCCM11016P strain 
 The microbial cell amount, glucose consumption ability and amino acid productivity were 
 compared, by culturing the KCCM11016P::PgapA-Son strain and the control group 
 KCCM11016P by the following method. 
 At first, each strain was inoculated in a 250 ml corner-baffled flask containing a 25 ml 
 seed medium, and cultured with shaking at 30°C for 20 hours at 200 rpm. The seed culture solution 
 of 1 ml was inoculated in a 250 ml corner-baffled flask containing a 24 ml production medium, 
 and cultured with shaking at 37°C for 42 hours at 200 rpm. After the end of culturing, the yield of 
 L-amino acid was measured by HPLC. 
 <Seed medium (pH 7.0)> 
 Glucose 20 g, peptone 10 g, yeast extract 5 g, urea 1.5 g, KH 2 PO 4 4 g, K2HPO 4 8g, 
 MgSO4-7H20 0.5 g, biotin 0.1 mg, thiamine HCl 1 mg, calcium-pantothenic acid 22 mg, 
 nicotinamide 2 mg (based on distilled water 1 liter) 
 <Production medium (pH 7.0)> 
 Glucose 45 g, (NH4 ) 2 SO4 15 g, soybean protein 10 g, molasse 10 g, KH 2 PO4 0.55 g, 
 MgSO4-7H20 0.6 g, biotin 0.9 mg, thiamine hydrochloride 4.5 mg, calcium-pantothenic acid 4.5 
 mg, nicotinamide 30 mg, MnSO4 9 mg, FeSO4 9 mg, ZnSO4 0.45 mg, CuSO4 0.45 mg, CaCO3 30 
 g (based on distilled water 1 liter). 
 The experiment was repeated 3 times, and the culture result (average value) was shown in 
 Table 5. 
 [Table 5] 
 L-amino acid productivity comparison (KCCM11016P) 
 Strain OD562 Consumed Lysine Arginine Histidine glucose concentration concentration concentration (g/L) (g/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) KCCM11016P 33.6 50.0 12.1 24.5 0 KCCM11016P::PgapA-Son 28.3 50.0 14.4 317.0 20.4 As shown in Table 5, the KCCM11016P::PgapA-Son strain showed the increased amino 
 acid productivity compared to the control strain KCCM11016P. The KCCM11016P::PgapA-Son 
 strain(Corynebacteriumglutamicum CA03-1359) was internationally deposited to Korean Culture 
 Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), an international depository authority under the Budapest 
 Treaty on October 29, 2020 and was given an accession number as KCCM 12827P. 
 Example 5: Comparison of L-amino acid productivity in foreign membrane protein 
 introduced KCCM10770P strain 
 A strain in which PgapA-Son gene was inserted on the transposon position on the genome 
 of Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM10770P (Korean Patent No. 10-0924065) strain was 
 obtained using the method described in Example 3. The strain obtained in this way was named 
 Corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM10770P::PgapA-Son. 
 By culturing the KCCM10770P::PgapA-Son strain and the control group KCCM10770P, 
 the microbial cell amount, glucose consumption ability and amino acid productivity were 
 compared (See Example 4 for evaluation method). The experiment was repeated 3 times, and the 
 culture result (average value) was shown in Table 6. 
 [Table 6] 
 L-amino acid productivity comparison (KCCM10770P) 
 Strain ODs62 Consume Lysine yield Arginine Histidine glucose (g/L) (g/L) concentration concentration (mg/L) (mg/L) KCCM10770P 67.1 50 8.1 17.9 0 KCCM10770P::PgapA-Son 57.4 50 11.4 402.3 12.8 As shown in Table 6, the KCCM10770P::PgapA-Son strain showed the increased amino 
 acid productivity compared to the control strain KCCM10770P. 
 Example 6: Comparison of L-amino acid productivity in foreign membrane protein 
 introduced CJ3P strain 
 A strain in which PgapA-Son gene was inserted was obtained using the method described 
 in Example 3 on the transposon position on the genome of the Corynebacterium glutamicum 
 CJ3P(US 9556463 B2) strain having the L-lysine productivity by introducing 3 kinds of mutants 
 [pyc(P458S), hom(V59A), lysC(T3111)] into a wild type strain. The strain obtained in this way 
 was named Corynebacterium glutamicum CJ3P::PgapA-Son. 
 By culturing the CJ3P::PgapA-Son strain and the control group CJ3P, the microbial cell 
 amount, glucose consumption ability and amino acid productivity were compared (See Example 4 
 for evaluation method). The experiment was repeated 3 times, and the culture result (average value) 
 was shown in Table 7. 
 [Table 7] 
 L-amino acid productivity comparison (CJ3P) 
 Strain OD 56 2 Consume Lysine yield Arginine Histidine glucose (g/L) (g/L) concentration concentration (mg/L) (mg/L) CJ3P 75.5 50 3.4 53.4 12.4 CJ3P::PgapA-Son 69.7 50 4.5 560.1 70.3 As shown in Table 7, the CJ3P::PgapA-Son strain showed the increased amino acid productivity compared to the control strain CJ3P. 
 From the above description, those skilled in the art to which the present application 
 pertains will understand that the present application may be implemented in other specific forms 
 without changing the technical spirit or essential characteristics thereof. In this regard, it should 
 be understood that the examples described above are illustrative in all aspects and not restrictive. 
 The scope of the present application should be construed as including all changed or modified 
 forms derived from the meaning and scope of claims described below and equivalent concepts 
 thereof rather than the above detailed description. 
 [Accessin Number] 
 Name of depository authority: Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms 
 Accession number: KCCM12827P 
 Accession date: 20201029 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 INTERNATIONAL FORM 
 To C Cheilledang Corporation C3 CHEILSEDANG CENTER, RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORlGINAL DEPOSIT 330, DONGHO-RO, issued pursuant to Rule 7.1 by the INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY JUNG-GiU, SEOL 100-400 identiied at the bottom of this page REPUBLIC OF KOREA L. I 
 I. IDENTIFICATION OF THE MICROORGANISM 
 Tdcnification reference given by the Accession number given by the DEPOSITOR: INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY: Corynebacteriwn glamicum CM03-1359 KCCM12827P 
 II. SCIENTIFIC DESCRIPTION AND/OR PROPOSED TAXONOMIC DESTINATION 
 The microorganism idenified under I above was accompanied by. E a scientific description |] a proposed taxonomic designation (Mark with a cross where applicable) 
 I1L RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE 
 This Irtcrnational Depositary Authority accepts the microorganism identified under I above, which was received by it on Octobr, 29 2020 (date of the original deposit),' 
 IV, RECEIPT OF REQUEST FOR CONVERSION 
 The mncroorgnismidtied uder I abovewas received by this International Depositary Authority on (daic of the original deposit) and a request to convert the original deposi to a deposit under the Budapest Treaty was received by it on (date of receipt of request for conversion). 
 V. INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY 
 Name : Korean Culture Center or Microorgaisms Sigsnare(s) of persor(s) having the power to represent the Intemational Depositary Address Turim EID Authority or or authorize Ofidal' 45, Hongjenae-2ga-gil I.JO'1n Scodaemun-gu Date: October. 29. 2020 20i, SEOUL 03641 Republic of Korea 
 Where Rule 64(d) applies, such date is the date on whih the status of iriei hrity was acquired, 
 Form BP/4 (sol page) 
 036A 11A Adflg 1 il 114271 in 45 Ml 9l@ TqI (2-391-0950, 396-0950 Fa. 0- 92-259 
 KOREAN CULTIMCENTER OF MICIOORMSM m.- -t e rLm ibeel.m Bcq, 45. Hnoes 2gs-s'IS.serix-gr Seoul, 036i1,Kore Tel; 82'-2-391-095, 396-0950 Fax; 82-2-392-2559 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
