
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SOLUBLE FORM OF CARBONIC ANHYDRASE IX (s-CA IX), ASSAYS TO DETECT s-CA IX, CA IX's COEXPRESSION WITH HER-2/neu/c-erbB-2, and CA IX-SPECIFIC MONOCLONAL SANTIBODIES TO NON-IMMUNODOMINANT EPITOPES 
 O 
 4 FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention is in the general area of medical genetics and in O the fields of biochemical engineering, immunochemistry and oncology. More specifically, it relates to the MN gene a cellular gene considered to be an c- oncogene, known alternatively as MN/CA9, CA9, or carbonic anhydrase 9, which 0 10 gene encodes the oncoprotein now known alternatively as the MN protein, the CN MN/CA IX isoenzyme, MN/CA IX, carbonic anhydrase IX, CA IX or the MN/G250 protein. 
 More specifically, the instant invention is directed to new MN/CA IXspecific antibodies prepared in MN/CA IX-deficient mice (knock out mice) and to uses of those new antibodies. Significantly, some of the new MN/CA IX-specific antibodies, preferably monoclonal antibodies and immunoreactive fragments thereof are directed to non-immunodominant epitopes on CA IX proteins and polypeptides, rendering such antibodies and immunoreactive fragments, among many diagnostic/prognostic and therapeutic uses, useful in highly specific double antibody sandwich assays to detect MN/CA IX antigen, particularly soluble MN/CA IX antigen (s-CA IX) found in body fluids. 
 This invention is also directed to the soluble MN/CA IX antigen (s-CA IX) itself, and assays to detect or to detect and quantify it. Further this invention concerns the coexpression of CA IX and HER-2/neu/c-erbB-2 and diagnostic/prognostic and therapeutic methods in parallel with and/or alternative to those targeting HER-2. Particularly preferred are assays to detect both the HER-2 ectodomain ("p 1 00") and the CA IX extracellular domain (50/54 kilodaltons) in the same body fluid sample from a cancer patient. Backup therapeutic methods targeting CA IX can be used for patients not responding to HER-2 therapy. Such integrated diagnostic/prognostic and therapeutic methods with HER-2 and CA IX as targets can provide clinicians with more comprehensive resources to help cancer patients, such as, metastatic breast cancer patients. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 O 
 O 
 C As indicated above, the MN gene and protein are known by a number Sof alternative names, which names are used herein interchangeably. The MN protein was found to bind zinc and have carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity and is now NC considered to be the ninth carbonic anhydrase isoenzyme MN/CA IX or CA IX [Opavsky et al. 1996]. According to the carbonic anhydrase nomenclature, human C CA isoenzymes are written in capital roman letters and numbers, while their genes O are written in italic letters and arabic numbers. Alternatively, "MN" is used herein to refer either to carbonic anhydrase isoenzyme IX (CA IX) proteins/polypeptides, or c carbonic anhydrase isoenzyme 9 (CA9) gene, nucleic acids, cDNA, mRNA etc. as 
 O 
 O indicated by the context. 
 The MN protein has also been identified with the G250 antigen. 
 Uemura et al., "Expression of Tumor-Associated Antigen MN/G250 in Urologic Carcinoma: Potential Therapeutic Target, J. Urol., 154 (4 Suppl.): 377 (Abstract 1475; 1997) states: "Sequence analysis and database searching revealed that G250 antigen is identical to MN, a human tumor-associated antigen identified in cervical carcinoma (Pastorek et al., 1994)." CA IX is a cancer-related carbonic anhydrase identified by Zavada, Pastorekova, Pastorek Patent 5,387,676) using the M75 monoclonal antibody first described by Pastorekova et al. [Virology 187: 620-626 (1992)]. That antibody was employed in cloning of cDNA encoding CA IX [Pastorek et al., Oncogene, 9: 2788-2888 (1994)], in assessment of CA IX expression in tumors and normal tissues [Zavada et al., Int J Cancer, 54: 268-274, (1993) and many other references], in study of CA IX regulation by cell density [Lieskovska et al., Neoplasma, 46: 17-24, (1999), Kaluz et al., Cancer Research, 62: 4469-4477, (2002)] as well in demonstration of CA IX induction by hypoxia [Wykoff et al., Cancer Research, 7075-7083 (2000), and many other references]. All these studies supported the assumption made in the original U.S Patent 5,387,676 that CA IX can be used diagnostically and/or prognostically as a preneoplastic/neoplastic tumor marker and therapeutically as a target, and showed that the M75 monoclonal antibody is a valuable CA IX-specific reagent useful for different immunodetection methods and immunotargeting approaches. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Zavada et al., International Publication Number WO 93/18152 O (published 16 September 1993) and U.S. Patent No. 5,387,676 (issued February 7, 
 O 
 S 1995), describe the discovery and biological and molecular nature of the MN gene Sand protein. The MN gene was found to be present in the chromosomal DNA of all vertebrates tested, and its expression to be strongly correlated with tumorigenicity. 
 The MN protein was first identified in HeLa cells, derived from a human carcinoma of cervix uteri. It is found in many types of human carcinomas (notably uterine cervical, ovarian, endometrial, renal, bladder, breast, colorectal, lung, esophageal, and prostate, among others). Very few normal tissues have been found to express MN protein to any significant degree. Those MN-expressing normal c tissues include the human gastric mucosa and gallbladder epithelium, and some 
 O 
 O other normal tissues of the alimentary tract. Paradoxically, MN gene expression has been found to be lost or reduced in carcinomas and other preneoplastic/neoplastic diseases in some tissues that normally express MN, gastric mucosa. 
 In general, oncogenesis may be signified by the abnormal expression of MN protein. For example, oncogenesis may be signified: when MN protein is present in a tissue which normally does not express MN protein to any significant degree; when MN protein is absent from a tissue that normally expresses it; (3) when MN gene expression is at a significantly increased level, or at a significantly reduced level from that normally expressed in a tissue; or when MN protein is expressed in an abnormal location within a cell. 
 Zavada et al., WO 93/18152 and Zavada et al., WO 95/34650 (published 21 December 1995) disclose how the discovery of the MN gene and protein and the strong association of MN gene expression and tumorigenicity led to the creation of methods that are both diagnostic/prognostic and therapeutic for cancer and precancerous conditions. Methods and compositions were provided therein for identifying the onset and presence of neoplastic disease by detecting or detecting and quantitating abnormal MN gene expression in vertebrates. Abnormal MN gene expression can be detected or detected and quantitated by a variety of conventional assays in vertebrate samples, for example, by immunoassays using MN-specific antibodies to detect or detect and quantitate MN antigen, by hybridization assays or by PCR assays, such as RT-PCR, using MN nucleic acids, such as, MN cDNA, to detect or detect and quantitate MN nucleic acids, such as, MN mRNA. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M MN/CA IX was first identified in HeLa cells, derived from human O carcinoma of cervix uteri, as both a plasma membrane and nuclear protein with an 
 O 
 N apparent molecular weight of 58 and 54 kilodaltons (kDa) as estimated by Western Sblotting. It is N-glycosylated with a single 3kDa carbohydrate chain and under nonreducing conditions forms S-S-linked oligomers [Pastorekova et al., Virology, 187: NC 620-626 (1992); Pastorek et al., Oncogene, 9: 2788-2888 (1994)]. MN/CA IX is a transmembrane protein located at the cell surface, although in some cases it has been detected in the nucleus [Zavada et al., Int. J. Cancer, 54: 268-274 (1993); 0 Pastorekova et al., supral. 
 MN is manifested in HeLa cells by a twin protein, p54/58N. 
 S Immunoblots using a monoclonal antibody reactive with p54/58N (MAb O revealed two bands at 54 kd and 58 kd. Those two bands may correspond to one type of protein that most probably differs by post-translational processing. 
 Zavada et al., WO 93/18152 and/or WO 95/34650 disclose the MN cDNA sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) shown herein in Figure 1A-1C, the MN amino acid sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2) also shown in Figure 1A-1C, and the MN genomic sequence (SEQ ID NO: 3) shown herein in Figure 2A-2F. The MN gene is organized into 11 exons and 10 introns. The human MN cDNA sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 contains 1522 base pairs The MN cDNA sequence of SEQ ID NO: 70 contains 1552 bp [EMBL Acc. No. X66839; Pastorek et al. (1994)]. 
 The first thirty seven amino acids of the MN protein shown in Figure 1A-1C (SEQ ID NO: 2) is the putative MN signal peptide [SEQ ID NO: The MN protein has an extracellular (EC) domain [amino acids (aa) 38-414 of Figure 1A-1C (SEQ ID NO: a transmembrane (TM) domain [aa 415-434 (SEQ ID NO: and an intracellular (IC) domain [aa 435-459 (SEQ ID NO: The extracellular domain contains the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain at about amino acids (aa) 53-111 (SEQ ID NO. 8) or preferably at about aa 52-125 (SEQ ID NO: 98), and the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain at about aa 135-391 (SEQ ID NO: 9) or preferably, at about aa 121-397 (SEQ ID NO: 101). 
 Zavada et al, WO 93/18152 and WO 95/34650 describe the production of MN-specific antibodies. A representative and preferred MN-specific antibody, the monoclonal antibody M75 (Mab M75), was deposited at the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) in Manassus, VA (USA) under ATCC Number HB 11128. The antibody was used to discover and identify the MN protein and can be used to WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 identify readily MN antigen in Western blots, in radioimmunoassays and O immunohistochemically, for example, in tissue samples that are fresh, frozen, or 
 O 
 Cl formalin-, alcohol-, acetone- or otherwise fixed and/or paraffin-embedded and Sdeparaffinized. Another representative and preferred MN-specific antibody, Mab MN12, is secreted by the hybridoma MN 12.2.2, which was deposited at the ATCC Cl under the designation HB 11647. Example 1 of Zavada et al., WO 95/34650 provides representative results from immunohistochemical staining of tissues using O MAb M75, which results support the designation of the MN gene as an oncogene. 
 Immunodominant epitopes are considered to be essentially those that are within the PG domain of MN/CA IX, including the repetitive epitopes for the mab, particularly the amino acid sequence PGEEDLP (SEQ ID NO: 11), which is 4X 0 identically repeated in the N-terminal PG region (Zavada et al. 2000). The epitope for the MN12 mab is also immunodominant. 
 The M75 mab was first reported in Pastorekova et al., Virology, 187: 620-626 (1992) and is claimed specifically, as well as generically with all MN/CA IXspecific antibodies, polyclonal and monoclonal as well as fragments thereof, in a number of U.S. and foreign patents, including, for example, Zavada et al., U.S. 
 Patent No. 5,981,711 and EP 0 637 336 BI. [See also, Zavada et al., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,387,676; 5,955,075; 5,972,353; 5,989,838; 6,004,535; 6,051,226; 6,069,242; 6,093,548; 6,204,370; 6,204,887; 6,297,041; and 6,297,051; and Zavada et al., AU 669694; CA 2,131,826; DE 69325577.3; and KR 282284.] Those Zavada et al. U.S. 
 and foreign patents are herein incorporated by reference. 
 CA IX is a highly active member of a carbonic anhydrase family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible conversion between carbon dioxide and bicarbonate [Pastorek et al. (1994); Opavsky et al. (1996); Chegwidden et al. (2000); Wingo et al, (2001)]. It is one of 14 isoforms that exist in mammals and occupy different subcellular positions, including cytoplasm (CA I, II, III, VII), mitochondrion (CA VA, VB), secretory vesicles (CA VI) and plasma membrane (CA IV, IX, XII, XIV). 
 Some of the isozymes are distributed over broad range of tissues (CA I, II, CA IV), others are more restricted to particular organs (CA VI in salivary glands) and two isoforms have been linked to cancer tissues (CA IX, XII) [reviewed in Chegwidden (2000), Pastorek and Pastorekova (2003)]. Enzyme activity and kinetic properties, as well as sensitivity to sulfonamide inhibitors vary from high (CA II, CA IX, CA XII, CA WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M IV) to low (CA III) [Supuran and Scozzafava (2000)]. Several isoforms designated as O CA-related proteins (CA-RP VIII, X, XI) are acatalytic due to incompletely conserved 
 O 
 C active site. This extraordinary variability among the genetically related members of Sthe same family of proteins creates a basis for their employment in diverse physiological and pathological processes. The catalytic activity is of fundamental CN relevance for the maintenance of acid-base balance and exchange of ions and water in metabolically active tissues. Via this activity, CAs substantially contribute to O respiration, production of body fluids (vitreous humor, gastric juice, cerebrospinal fluid), bone resorption, renal acidification etc. (Chegwidden 2000). 
 CA IX isozyme integrates several properties that make it an important r subject of basic as well as clinical research. First of all, expression of CA IX is very O tightly associated with a broad variety of human tumors, while it is generally absent from the corresponding normal tissues [Zavada et al. (1993); Liao et al. (1994); Turner et al., 1997; Liao et al., 1997; Saarnio et al., 1998; Vermylen et al., 1999; Ivanov et al. (2001); Bartosova et al. (2002)]. This is principally related to tumor hypoxia that strongly activates transcription of CA9 gene via a hypoxia-inducible transcription factor binding to a hypoxia-response element localized just upstream of transcription initiation site in CA9 promoter [Wykoff et al. (2000)]. Since tumor hypoxia is an important phenomenon with dramatic implications for cancer development and therapy [Hockel and Vaupel (2001)], CA IX bears a significant potential as an intrinsic hypoxic marker with a prognostic/predictive value and as a promising therapeutic target [Wykoff et al. (2000); Wykoff et al. (2001); Beasley et al. 
 (2001); Giatromanolaki et al. (2001); Koukourakis et al. (2001)]. In favor of the proposed clinical applications, CA IX is an integral plasma membrane protein with a large extracellular part exposed at the surface of cancer cells and is thus accessible by the targeting tools, including the specific monoclonal antibodies. Furthermore, CA IX differs from the other CA isozymes by the presence of a unique proteoglycanrelated region (PG) that forms an N-terminal extension of the extracellular CA domain and allows for elimination of cross-recognition with other isozymes [Opavsky et al. (1996)]. Moreover, CA IX has been functionally implicated in cell adhesion and due to high catalytic activity it has been proposed to contribute to acidification of extracellular microenvironment [Zavada et al. (2000); Ivanov et al.,(1998)]. 
 Therefore, targeting the CA IX protein for abrogation of its function is expected to have therapeutic effects. In addition to potential clinical exploitation of CA IX, there WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 is an increasing interest to resolve many basic molecular and functional aspects of O CA IX, because the knowledge on its precise role in cancer cells, on the contribution N of different domains/sequence motifs, and concerning its regulation is still Sfragmentary. 
 So far, most of the basic CA IX-related studies were performed using a NC single mouse monoclonal antibody M75 that recognizes the N-terminal PG region of CA IX [Pastorekova (1992), Zavada (2000)]. This antibody proved to be highly Sspecific and perfectly suitable for certain purposes including immunohistochemical analyzes of cancer tissue sections [Liao et al. (1994); Ivanov et al. (2001) and references therein], targeting hypoxic tumor cells in animal models [Chrastina et al. 
 (2003)], CA IX immunodetection in vitro, and molecular characterization [Pastorek et 0 0 al. (1994); Lieskovska et al. (1999); Kaluz et al. (1999); Kaluz et al. (2002), Olive et al. (2001)]. On the other hand, CA IX-specific monoclonal antibodies with epitope specificity different from that of M75 have not heretofore been available for approaches that are based on capture-detection principle or for study of mutated variants of CA IX. There had been many significant obstacles to producing such antibodies previously. The instant invention solves the problems involved in producing antibodies to the non-immunodominant epitopes of CA IX and discloses a variety of clinical and experimental uses for such antibodies. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In one aspect, the instant invention concerns new CA IX-specific antibodies generated in CA IX-deficient mice, particularly to monoclonal antibodies and immunoreactive fragments thereof, that are directed to non-immunodominant epitopes on the CA IX extracellular domain. A representative CA IX-specific antibody generated in CA IX-deficient mice as described in Example 2 is the mab, produced by the V/10-VU, which hybridoma was deposited on February 19, 2003 under the Budapest Treaty at the Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCM) at the Laboratorium Voor Moleculaire Biolojie- Plasmidencollectie (LMBP) in Gent, Belgium. 
 In view of the protocols specifically detailed herein, the CA IX-specific antibodies generated in the CA IX-deficient mice are directed to the PG or CA domains, ones of skill in the art realize that the analogous methods to those detailed WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 herein alone or in combination with conventional methods known in the art can be O used to produce CA IX-specific antibodies or immunoreactive antibody fragments to 
 O 
 C other domains of CA IX as shown in Figure 4, for example, the TM or IC domains. 
 In another aspect, the new CA IX-specific antibodies generated in CA IX-deficient mice and particularly monoclonal antibodies and immunoreactive C fragments thereof not directed to immunodominant epitopes of CA IX can be used clinically diagnostically and/or prognostically to detect precancer and cancer S(preneoplastic/neoplastic disease) and therapeutically to treat precancer and cancer (prenoplastic/neoplastic disease). The new CA IX-specific antibodies generated in CA IX-deficient mice to non-immunodominant epitopes can be used S diagnostically/prognostically or therapeutically alone or in combination with CA IX- O specific antibodies not generated in CA IX-deficient mice, such as the monoclonal antibody. The antibodies of this invention directed to other than the PG domain of CA IX are particularly useful to detect the soluble form of the CA IX antigen (s-CA IX) found in body fluids with CA IX-specific antibodies directed to the PG domain. Preferably such assays include CA IX-specific antibodies directed to the PG and CA domains, but such antibodies directed to other domains, as for example, the IC or TM, in combination with such antibodies to any of the other domains, or as long as such antibodies do not have the same, overlapping and/or closely neighboring epitopes that would cause steric hindrance or blocking of each other's binding could be suitable for such assays. Optimizing assays for different MN target antigens would be within the skill of the art. Double-antibody sandwich assays using the CA-IX-specific antibodies of this invention are particularly preferred for diagnostic/prognostic assays to detect or detect and quantify the soluble form of CA IX (s-Ca IX) in body fluids. 
 The CA IX-specific antibodies generated in CA IX-deficient mice, particularly those not directed to immunodominant epitopes CA IX, alone or in combination with other such CA IX-specific antibodies or with CA IX-specific antibodies directed to immunodominant epitopes, such as the M75 monoclonal antibody, can also be used to detect or detect and quantitate different deletion variants of CA IX protein. 
 The CA IX-specific antibodies of this invention generated in CA IXdeficient mice, particularly those directed to non-immunodominant epitopes, can be used individually or in combination with other such CA IX-specific antibodies in WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 cancer research, diagnostics/prognostics for precancer/cancer, in making cancer O treatment decisions, in the developing new forms of cancer treatment, and in anti- 
 O 
 N tumor vaccines. For example, the CA IX-specific antibodies generated in CA IX- Sdeficient mice directed to various domains of CA IX, for example, to the CA, TM or IC domains, can be used also to detect and/or identify deletion variants of CA IX. More Cl particularly, for example, the CA IX-specific antibodies generated in CA IX-deficient mice, particularly those not directed to immunodominant epitopes, can be used alone O or in combination with CA IX-specific antibodies for many uses, among which are the following. 
 a) In basic and pre-clinical research Study of the structure-function relationship in CA IX molecule; 0 Study of the mechanism of release of soluble CA IX from cancer cells, determination of its biological activity and exploring its possible pathophysiological aspects; Study of the signal transduction pathways upstream and downstream of CA IX; Study of CA IX role in tumor growth and metabolism; Study of CA IX role in response to treatment by drugs, radiation, inhibitors etc.; b) In cancer screening, detection, diagnosis and prognosis Detection of CA IX (and its putative variants) in tumor specimens for tumor diagnosis, prediction of treatment outcome and prognosis of disease development; Development of sensitive test(s) for detection of soluble CA IX in body fluids; Development of screening approaches based on CA IX detection and monitoring of cancer relapse or metastasis after treatment; Imaging of tumor and metastases; c) In tumor therapy Preparation of humanized antibodies, single-chain fragments, diabodies, minibodies, bispecific antibodies and other form of antibodies for therapeutic purposes; S* Unconjugated antibody-based therapy to hinder cancer expansion and/or progression N either by blocking CA IX activity, or by antibody-dependent cell cytoxicity, or by complement-mediated cytotoxicity; c* Bispecific antibody-based therapy directed to tumor lysis by cytotoxic T cells; Therapy by antibody coupled with enzyme converting prodrug to active anticancer Sdrug; Radioimmunotherapy by antibody conjugated with radioisotope; Therapy by antibody coupled with toxin; Therapy by antibody coupled with chemotherapeutic drugs; Therapy by antibody combined with conventional therapeutic drugs (or different 
 C 
 inhibitors of cancer-related pathways), bioreductive drugs, or radiotherapy to increase treatment efficacy; Combined therapy with antibodies to other cancer-related antigens, or with cytokines; Gene therapy with plasmid/vector-coupled antibody for targeted delivery; and d) For anti-tumor vaccination Production of anti-idiotypic antibodies with internal image of CA IX for use as a vaccine. 
 In one aspect, there is provided an isolated soluble form of MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said MN/CA IX antigen comprises at least one immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein. 
 The soluble CA IX (s-CA IX) found in vertebrate body fluids, preferably mammalian body fluids, more preferably human body fluids, has a molecular weight of from about 10 kilodaltons (kd) to about 65 kd, preferably from about 15 kd to about 54 kd, more preferably from about 20 kd to about 54 kd; still more preferably said s-CA IX has a molecular weight of either from about 15 kd to about 35 kd or from about 45 kd to about 54 kd, more preferably either from about 20 kd to about 30 kd or from about 50 kd to about 54 kd, and most preferably said s-CA IX has a molecular weight predominantly as a twin protein having a molecular weight of about 50/54 kd as approximated from Western blotting. 
 The s-CA IX found in body fluids and in the culture medium of tumor cell lines, HT29, is primarily seen on Western blots as a twin band of 50/54 kd. The other major form of CA IX is the cell associated, transmembrane protein seen on Western blot as a twin band of 54/58 kd. The s-CA IX found in body fluids and tissue culture (TC) media is considered to be the CA IX extracellular portion released by 609998 I.JIN WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M proteolytic cleavage from the transmembrane (TM) and intracellular (IC) domains. 
 O The s-CA IX is predominantly a twin band of 50/54 kd on Western blot, is considered 
 O 
 lN to represent only the extracellular part of CA IX, comprising the proteoglycan-like d) (PG) domain and the carbonic anhydrase (CA domain (see Figure The complete cell-associated CA IX, predominantly a twin band of 54/58 kd on Western blot, l further comprises a transmembrane (TM) region and an intracellular (IC) anchor. 
 The s-CA IX also exists in other smaller forms, preferably 20-30 kd, O which is considered to comprise the CA domain or parts thereof. Higher molecular weight species of the s-CA IX of about 62 kd have been seen in the body fluids of cancer patients, but such species are considered to be rare and perhaps aberrant, S as conjoined with other molecular species, in view of the theoretical molecular weight C of the CA IX extracellular (EC) domain being about 50/54 kd. 
 The s-CA IX is considered to be a diagnostic/prognostic marker of many different cancers. A preferred diagnostic/prognostic use for s-CA IX is considered to be to monitor patients after surgical removal of a tumor, and to make decisions about the optimal method for therapy. The CA IX-specific antibodies that are directed to the non-immunodominant epitopes of this invention alone or in combination with CA IX-specific antibodies to the immunodominant epitopes, such as that of the M75 mab or V/18 mab, are considered important to detect all forms of s-CA IX, which are at low concentrations in body fluids. 
 Preferred samples in which to assay MN antigen by, for example, Western blotting or radioimmunoassay, are tissue and/or cell extracts. However, MN antigen, particularly in a soluble form, as the extracellular domain, can be detected in body fluids, which can include among other fluids: blood, serum, plasma, semen, breast exudate, gastric secretions, fecal suspensions, bile, saliva, tears, sputum, mucous, urine, lymph, cytosols, ascites, pleural effusions, amniotic fluid, bladder washes, bronchioalveolar lavages and cerebrospinal fluid. It is preferred that the MN antigen be concentrated from a larger volume of body fluid before testing. Preferred body fluids to assay would depend on the type of cancer for which one was testing, but in general preferred body fluids would be urine, serum, fecal suspensions, mucous, gastric secretions, bile, breast exudate, pleural effusions and ascites. 
 A preferred immunoassay format to detect s-CA IX in vertebrate, preferably mammalian, and more preferably human body fluids is a double antibody sandwich assay, using CA IX-specific antibodies directed to different regions of CA WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 IX. A preferred combination of CA IX-specific antibodies would be, for example, the 0 M75 mab to the PG domain and the V/10 mab to the CA domain. 
 O 
 Nl The s-CA IX that can be detected or detected and quantitated can be Sbound by CA IX-specific antibodies to the EC domain of CA IX, preferably to the PG or CA domains, such as the M75 mab or the V/10 mab, respectively. The smaller Nl form of the s-CA IX with a molecular weight of about 20 to about 30 kd, is considered to lack the PG domain, so that form would preferably be detected and quantitated by CA IX-specific antibodies directed to CA domain, preferably to epitopes that are C substantially separated on that domain, which separation may well depend on the conformational nature of the epitopes and the protein/polypeptide 3-D structure, that c may differ from that of the full-length CA IX or EC domain thereof. 
 C One method of detecting or detecting and quantifying s-Ca IX protein/polypeptide in a vertebrate body fluid comprise the steps of contacting said sample with one or more antibodies which specifically bind to CA IX protein or to CA IX polypeptide which comprises at least 16 amino acids; and detecting or detecting and quantifying binding of said antibody in said sample. In such a method, one or more of said CA IX-specific antibodies is or are labeled. Such methods can be in standard formats, as for example, Western blots, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, radioimmunoassays, competition immunoassays, dual antibody sandwich assays, immunohistochemical staining assays, agglutination assays, and fluorescent immunoassays. Such method can be diagnostic and/or prognostic for cancerous or precancerous diseases, wherein said disease is associated with abnormal expression of CA IX protein, selected from the group consisting of mammary, urinary tract, kidney, ovarian, uterine, bladder cervical, endometrial, vaginal, vular, prostate, liver, lung, skin, thyroid, pancreatic, testicular, brain, head and neck, gastrointestinal, and mesodermal precancerous and cancerous diseases. 
 Such methods might be particularly directed to precancerous and cancerous diseases of breast, colon, rectum and of the urinary tract, as of the kidney, bladder, urethra. Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and metastatic breast cancer, and precancer leading thereto, are considered particular targets for the diagnostic/prognostic assay methods that detect or detect and quantify s-CA IX in body fluids. 
 Another aspect of this invention concerns the coexpression of CA IX and HER-2/neu/c-erbB-2 in precancers and cancers. As reported in Example 11, below, a significant correlation of expression of the two genes has been o observed. Trastuzumab or herceptin is a humanized mab to HER-2 used to treat SHER-2-positive cancers, particularly breast cancers, more particularly metastastic breast cancer [Horton, Cancer Control, 499-507 (2002)]. Herceptin can be given alone to a patient but can enhance the effectiveness of several chemotherapeutic agents. However, a significant proportion of HER-2-positive cancers do not respond to herceptin [Kuter, I. (2001)]. It would be advantageous to q test cancer patients for both HER-2 and MN/CA IX expression to enlarge the clinical 0 perspective, therapeutic resources and diagnostic/prognostic parameters to pick the optimal therapeutic combinations for the most promosing treatment outcomes. 
 As explained herein, CA IX is considered to be a hypoxia marker, and hypoxia indicates radiation resistance, and indicates how chemotherapy might progress. For example, drugs like bleomycin have an obligate requirement for oxygen in order to be toxic. When a clinician selects a chemotherapeutic drug or is deciding whether to use radiation with another modality, such as herceptin, whether the tumor cells are expressing CA IX indicating hypoxic conditions, should be a factor in the therapeutic decision. 
 Also disclosed herein are therapeutic methods for targeting CA IX expressing cells. Antibodies, preferably mabs, and often preferably immunoreactive antibody fragments, are well as bispecific, chimeric, humanized variants, intrabodies, among other variants, alone or conjugated to toxic agents, can be used. Further CA inhibitors provide another option to the clinician. 
 Particularly significant are assays for s-CA IX which are analogous to those for HER-2, which sheds its ectodomain ("p100") into body fluids (See, for example, Carney et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,401,638). Such tests could be performed on even the same patient body fluid sample with labeling that could be selected for detection by the same automated system. 
 So, in one aspect, this invention concerns methods of sequentially or simultaneously detecting or detecting and quantitating s-CA IX and the HER-2 ectodomain in patient body fluids, particularly from breast cancer patients. In another aspect, the invention concerns testing the body fluids of a cancer patient particularly a breast cancer patient, that are HER-2 positive but nonresponders to herceptin, and treating the subset that are CA IX-positive with CA IX-specific antibodies, preferably mabs or fragments thereof or appropriate antibody variants, preferably fully humanized, alone or conjugated to a toxin, or alternatively with CA inhibitors, or with such CA IX-specific antibodies and/or CA inhibitors with rationally selected conventional therapies, including, for example, appropriate chemotherapeutic agents and in some cases radiation. 
 Thus, there is provided an isolated soluble form of MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said isolated soluble form of MN/CA IX antigen comprises at least one nonimmunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein, which is released from precancerous and/or cancerous cells of a vertebrate into a body fluid. 
 In one embodiment, the soluble form of the MN/CA IX antigen has a molecular weight of about 50 to 54 kd. In this embodiment, the soluble form of the MN/CA IX antigen may comprise the proteoglycan-like (PG) and carbonic anhydrase (CA) domains of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 In another embodiment, the soluble form of the MN/CA IX antigen has a molecular weight of about 20 to 30 kd. In this embodiment, the soluble form of the MN/CA IX antigen may comprise the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen or parts of said CA domain. 
 In one embodiment, the soluble form of the MN/CA IX antigen is specifically bound by the M75 monoclonal antibody that is secreted from the hybridoma VUwhich was deposited at the American Type Culture Collection under ATCC No. 
 HB 11128. 
 In certain embodiments the precancerous and/or cancerous cells of a vertebrate are human cells. 
 In certain embodiments, the body fluid is selected from the group consisting of blood, serum, plasma, semen, breast exudate, saliva, tears, sputum, mucous, urine, gastric secretions, fecal suspensions, bile, lymph, cytosols, ascites, pleural effusions, amniotic fluid, bladder washes, bronchioalveolar lavages and cerebrospinal fluid. 
 Also provided is a method of detecting or detecting and quantifying in a vertebrate body fluid soluble MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said soluble MN/CA IX antigen comprises at least one non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein, comprising the steps of: contacting a sample of said body fluid with one or more MN/CA IX-specific antibodies and/or with one or more MN/CA IX-specific antigen 924200 1:LNB binding antibody fragments, wherein at least one of said MN/CA IX-specific antibodies or antibody fragments, specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein; and detecting or detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies and/or said one or more antibody fragments in said sample. 
 In one embodiment of this method, the one or more of said antibodies and/or antibody fragments are labeled. 
 The method may be in a format that is selected from the group consisting of Western blots, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, radioimmunoassays, competition immunoassays, dual antibody sandwich assays, immunohistochemical staining assays, agglutination assays, and fluorescent immunoassays. 
 In certain embodiments, the one or more antibodies and/or said one or more antibody fragments specifically bind to a soluble form of MN/CA IX antigen, which soluble MN/CA IX antigen is released from precancerous and/or cancerous cells of a vertebrate into a body fluid. 
 The one or more antibodies may be monoclonal. The one or more monoclonal antibodies may be selected from the group consisting of the monoclonal antibodies designated M75, which are secreted by the hybridoma VU-M75, which is deposited at the American Type Culture Collection under Accession No. HB 11128, and monoclonal antibodies that are not directed to the M75 epitope. 
 In another embodiment, the method is diagnostic and/or prognostic for precancerous and/or cancerous disease, wherein said disease is associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, selected from the group consisting of mammary, urinary tract, kidney, ovarian, uterine, bladder, cervical, endometrial, vaginal, vulvar, prostate, liver, lung, skin, thyroid, pancreatic, testicular, brain, head and neck, gastrointestinal, colorectal and mesodermal precancerous and cancerous diseases. 
 The method may be diagnostic, or diagnostic and prognostic for precancerous and/or cancerous disease selected from the group consisting of renal cell carcinoma, urinary tract precancerous and cancerous diseases, breast cancer, breast precancer, colorectal cancer and colorectal precancer. 
 In certain embodiments of the method a sandwich immunoassay is used to detect, or detect and quantify said soluble MN/CA IX antigen. In these embodiments the antibodies may be monoclonal, and wherein one monoclonal antibody of said 924200 I:LNB sandwich is specific for the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen, and wherein the other monoclonal antibody of said sandwich assay is directed to the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen. In a particular embodiment, the antibody directed to the CA domain is the monoclonal antibody, which is secreted from the hybridoma cell line V/10-VU, which is deposited under the Budapest Treaty at the International Depository Authority of the Belgian Coordinated Collection of Microorganisms (BCCM) at the Laboratorium voor Moleculaire Biologie-Plasmidencollectie (LMBP) at the Universeit Gent in Gent, Belgium, under Accession No. LMBP 6009CB, and wherein the antibody directed to the PG domain is the M75 monoclonal antibody, which is secreted from the hybridoma cell line VU-M75, which is deposited under the Budapest Treaty at the American Type Culture Collection under Accession No. HB 11128. 
 In certain embodiments of the method, the one or more antibodies and/or antibody fragments are selected from the group comprising MN/CA IX- specific monoclonal antibodies generated from MN/CA IX-deficient mice, fragments of MN/CA IX-specific antibodies generated from MN/CA IX-deficient mice, antibodies and antibody fragments specific to the MN/CA IX carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain, antibodies and antibody fragments specific to MN/CA IX non-immunodominant epitopes, and antibodies and antibody fragments specific to the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 In certain embodiments, the method further comprises using antibodies and/or antibody fragments specific to the HER-2 ectodomain to detect, or to detect and quantify HER-2 ectodomain having a molecular weight of from about 97 to about 115 kilodaltons in said body fluid. 
 In certain embodiments, the body fluid is from a cancer patient, whose response to treatment comprising the use of a monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment specific to a HER-2 protein/polypeptide is considered unsatisfactory. 
 In particular embodiments wherein the body fluid is from a cancer patient, the method further comprises basing treatment modalities upon whether both soluble MN/CA IX antigen and HER-2 ectodomain are present in said body fluid. 
 Also provided is a monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IX-deficient mammal wherein said antibody binds specifically to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX antigen. 
 924200 1:LNB In one embodiment, the MN/CA IX- deficient mammal is a mouse that has a null mutation in Car9. 
 In another embodiment, the domain is selected from the group consisting of the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain, the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain, the transmembrane (TM) domain, and the intracellular (IC) domain. 
 In one embodiment, the domain is selected from the group consisting of the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain and the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain. 
 In a particular embodiment, the monoclonal antibody specifically binds the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 In certain embodiments, the epitope for said monoclonal antibody is within the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9, which has the amino acid sequence from amino acid 135 to amino acid 391 of Figure 1, is within the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 101, which has the amino acid sequence from amino acid 121 to amino acid 397 of Figure 1, or is within amino acid sequences substantially homologous to the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 9 and 101. 
 In certain embodiments, the epitope for said monoclonal antibody is closely associated with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 67, which has the amino acid sequence from amino acid 279 to amino acid 291 of Figure 1, or which monoclonal antibody specifically binds to an epitope within SEQ ID NO: 69, which has the amino acid sequence from amino acid 166 to amino acid 397 of Figure 1, or to an epitope within an amino acid sequence substantially homologous to SEQ ID NO: 69. 
 In one embodiment, the monoclonal antibody specifically binds to the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 In another embodiment, the epitope for the monoclonal antibody is within an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 8, which has an amino acid sequence from amino acid 53 to amino acid 111 of Figure 1, SEQ ID NO: 98, which has an amino acid sequence from amino acid 52 to amino acid 125 of Figure 1, and amino acid sequences substantially homologous to SEQ ID NO: 8 and SEQ ID NO: 98. 
 In certain embodiments of the monoclonal antibody which specifically binds the transmembrane domain of the MN/CA IX antigen, the transmembrane domain has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6, which has the amino acid sequence from amino acid 415 to amino acid 434 of Figure 1, or has an amino acid sequence substantially homologous to SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 924200 I:LNB In certain embodiments of the monoclonal antibody which specifically binds the transmembrane domain of the MN/CA IX antigen, the intracellular domain has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7, which has the amino acid sequence from amino acid 435 to amino acid 459 of Figure 1, or has an amino acid sequence that is substantially homologous to SEQ ID NO: 7. In a particular embodiment, the monoclonal antibody binds the epitope represented by SEQ ID NO: 68 which has the amino acid sequence from amino acid 435 to amino acid 450 of Figure 1. 
 In certain embodiments, the monoclonal antibody is produced by the hybridoma deposited at BCCMM/LMBP under Accession No. LMBP 6009CB. 
 In one embodiment, the monoclonal antibody is selected from the group consisting of antigen-binding fragments comprising MN/CA IX antigen binding regions. The fragments may be single chain molecules, comprising peptide-linked VH and VI domains, which may be dimerized. 
 Also provided is the hybridoma VU-VIO which produces the monoclonal antibody V/10 and which has been deposited at BCCMT/LMBP under Accession No. LMBP 6009CB. 
 Also provided is a monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment that is specific to MN/CA IX antigen that is not directed to an immunodominant epitope of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 The monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments described above may be humanized. 
 The monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments described above may be coupled with a radioisotope, a chemotherapeutic drug, a toxin or a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. 
 Also provided is a method of therapy for precancerous and/or cancerous disease, wherein said disease is associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, comprising the use of one or more monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments described above. 
 Also provided is method of therapy for precancerous and/or cancerous disease, comprising the use of a monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IX-deficient mammal wherein said antibody binds specifically to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX antigen, administered in conjunction with one or more chemotherapeutic drugs, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, cytokines, antibodies directed 924200 1:LNB to immunodominant epitopes of MN/CA IX antigen, antibodies to cancer-related antigens other than MN/CA IX antigen, and/or radiotherapy. 
 In particular embodiments of the method of detecting and quantifying in a vertebrate body fluid soluble MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said soluble MN/CA IX antigen comprises at least one non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein, comprising the steps of: contacting a sample of said body fluid with one or more MN/CA IX-specific antibodies and/or with one or more MN/CA IX-specific antigen binding antibody fragments, wherein at least one of said MN/CA IX-specific antibodies or antibody fragments, specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein; and detecting or detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies and/or said one or more antibody fragments in said sample, wherein the body fluid is from a cancer patient, the method further comprises basing treatment modalities upon whether both soluble MN/CA IX antigen and HER-2 ectodomain are present in said body fluid., whose body fluids contain both detectable soluble MN/CA IX antigen and HER-2 ectodomain, comprising the use of a monoclonal antibody, wherein said antibody binds specifically to MN/CA IX antigen. 
 In one embodiment, the method of detecting or detecting and quantifying in a vertebrate body fluid soluble MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said soluble MN/CA IX antigen comprises at least one non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein, comprises the steps of: contacting a sample of said body fluid with one or more MN/CA IX-specific antibodies and/or with one or more MN/CA IX-specific antigen binding antibody fragments, wherein at least one of said MN/CA IX-specific antibodies or antibody fragments, specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein; and detecting or detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies and/or said one or more antibody fragments in said sample, and wherein the method further comprises using antibodies and/or antibody fragments specific to the HER-2 ectodomain to detect, or to detect and quantify HER- 2 ectodomain having a molecular weight of from about 97 to about 115 kilodaltons in said body fluid, and wherein the body fluid is from a cancer patient, 924200 I:LNB O the method further comprises basing treatment modalities upon whether both N soluble MN/CA IX antigen and HER-2 ectodomain are present in said body fluid, t comprising the use of a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. 
 Also provided is a method of gene therapy for a precancerous and/or cancerous disease, wherein said disease is associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, comprising the use of the monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IX- \deficient mammal wherein said antibody binds specifically to the carbonic anhydrase s (CA) domain of MN/CA IX antigen, the antibody coupled to a plasmid/vector for targeted delivery to a cell expressing MN/CA IX antigen. 
 r< Also provided is an anti-idiotype antibody to an idiotype of a monoclonal Santibody generated from a MN/CA IX-deficient mammal, wherein said antibody binds specifically to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX antigen, or an anti-idiotype antibody to an idiotype of a monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment that is specific to MN/CA IX antigen that is not directed to an immunodominant epitope of the MN/CA IX antigen. Also provided is a method of therapy for precancerous and/or cancerous disease, comprising the administration of such an antiidiotype antibody as a vaccine. 
 Further provided is a method of detecting deletion variants of MN/CA IX antigen, comprising the use of a monoclonal antibody or monoclonal antibodies generated from a MN/CA IX-deficient mammal, wherein said antibody binds specifically to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX antigen, or a monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment that is specific to MN/CA IX antigen that is not directed to an immunodominant epitope of the MN/CA IX antigen, and optionally a monoclonal antibody or monoclonal antibodies directed to an immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX antigen. 
 Also provided is a hybridoma that secretes any one of the above described monoclonal antibodies. 
 Also provided is the use of one or more MN/CA IX-specific antibodies and/or one or more MN/CA IX-specific antigen binding antibody fragments in the preparation of a diagnostic or medicament for use in the diagnosis and/or prognosis for precancerous and/or cancerous disease associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, wherein at least one of said MN/CA IX-specific antibodies or antibody fragments specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein. In certain embodiments, the disease is selected from the group consisting 924200 1:LNB of mammary, urinary tract, kidney, ovarian, uterine, bladder, cervical, endometrial, vaginal, vulvar, prostate, liver, lung, skin, thyroid, pancreatic, testicular, brain, head and neck, gastrointestinal, colorectal and mesodermal precancerous and cancerous diseases. 
 Also provided is a use of a monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IXdeficient mammal in the preparation of a medicament for use in the treatment of precancerous and/or cancerous diseases associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said MN/CA IX-specific antibody specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein. In certain embodiments, the monoclonal antibody specifically binds the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of MN/CA IX. 
 Also provided is a use of a monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IXdeficient mammal which specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of MN/CA IX protein, coupled to a plasmid/vector in the preparation of a medicament for targeted delivery of gene therapy for a precancerous and/or cancerous disease associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen. 
 Also provided is a use of an anti-idiotype antibody directed to an idiotype of an antibody which specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein in the preparation of a vaccine for the therapy of a precancerous and/or cancerous disease associated with the expression of MN/CA IX antigen. 
 Abbreviations The following abbreviations are used herein: a predicted target domain aa amino acid ATCC American Type Culture Collection bp base pairs BLV bovine leukemia virus BSA bovine serum albumin BRL Bethesda Research Laboratories 924200 I:LNB ACA deletion variant of MN/CA IX protein lacking the CA domain expressed in transfected MDCK cells CA carbonic anhydrase CAM cell adhesion molecule CARP carbonic anhydrase related protein CAT Chloramphenicol acetyltransferase Ci curie CIS carcinoma in situ cm centimetre CMV cytomegalovirus cpm counts per minute C-terminus- carboxyl-temninus CTL cytotoxic T lymphocytes C degrees centigrade DEAE diethylaminoethyl DMEM Dulbecco modified Eagle medium 924200 I:LNB WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 ds 
 EDTA 
 EGF 
 EIA 
 ELISA 
 EMSA 
 EPO 
 ER 
 ex 
 F 
 FACS 
 FCS 
 FITC 
 fl 
 FTP 
 GST-MN 
 GVC 
 H 
 HBS 
 H-E 
 HEF 
 HeLa K HeLa S 
 H/F-T 
 H/F-N 
 HIF 
 HPV 
 HRE 
 HRP 
 HSV 
 S double-stranded ethylenediaminetetraacetate epidermal growth factor enzyme immunoassay enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay electrophoretic mobility shift assay erythropoietin estrogen receptor antigen in cellular extract fibroblasts cytofluorometric study fetal calf serum fluorescein isothiocyanate full length MN/CA IX expressed in MDCK (madin Darby Canine Kidney) canine renal epithelial cells stably transfected with the wild type cDNA DNase 1 footprinting analysis S fusion protein MN glutathione S-transferase ganciclovir S HeLa cells S HIF-binding site haematoxylin-eosin human embryo fibroblasts standard type of HeLa cells Stanbridge's mutant HeLa D98/AH.2 hybrid HeLa fibroblast cells that are tumorigenic; derived from HeLa D98/AH.2 hybrid HeLa fibroblast cells that are nontumorigenic; derived from HeLa D98/AH.2 S hypoxia-inducible factor Human papilloma virus hypoxia response element horseradish peroxidase S Herpes simplex virus WO 03/100029 WO 03/00029PCT/USO3/05136 
 IC 
 IF 
 lEN 
 HO 
 IL-2 Inr 'p I PTG kb kbp kd or kDa 
 KS 
 KLH 
 LCMV 
 LTR 
 M 
 mA Mab or mab 
 MOSE 
 ME 
 MEM 
 min. 
 mg ml mM 
 MMC 
 mmol 
 MLV 
 N 
 ND 
 NEG 
 ng nm nt intracytoplasmic or intracellular immunofluorescence interferon immunohistochemistry interleukin-2 initiator immunoprecipitation with the Protein A Sepharose isopropyl -beta-D-th ioga lacto-pyra nos id e kilobase kilobase pairs kilodaltons keratan sulphate keyhole limpet hemacyanin lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus long terminal repeat molar milliampere monoclonal antibody macrophage colony stimulating factor mercaptoethanol minimal essential medium minute(s) milligram milliliter millimolar mitomycin C millimole murine leukemia virus normal concentration not done negative nanogram nanometer nucleotide WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 N-terminus 
 ODN 
 ORF 
 PA 
 PBS 
 PCR 
 PEST 
 PG 
 PGK 
 pl 
 PMA 
 POS 
 Py 
 RACE 
 RCC 
 RIA 
 RIP 
 RIPA 
 RNP 
 RT-PCR 
 SAC 
 S. aureus sc 
 SDRE 
 SDS 
 SDS-PAGE 
 SINE 
 SP 
 SP-RIA 
 SSDS 
 SSH 
 SSPE 
 amino-terminus oligodeoxynucleotide open reading frame Protein A phosphate buffered saline polymerase chain reaction combination of one-letter abbreviations for proline, glutamic acid, serine, threonine proteoglycan-like region phosphoglycerate kinase isoelectric point phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate positive pyrimidine rapid amplification of cDNA ends renal cell carcinoma radioimmunoassay radioimmunoprecipitation radioimmunoprecipitation assay RNase protection assay reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction Staphylococcus aureus cells Staphylococcus aureus subcutaneous serum dose response element sodium dodecyl sulfate sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis short interspersed repeated sequence signal peptide solid-phase radioimmunoassay synthetic splice donor site subtractive suppressive PCR Na'CI (0.18 sodium phosphate (0.01 EDTA (0.001 M) S simian virus WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 
 TBE 
 TC 
 TCA 
 TC media 
 TC 
 tk 
 TM 
 TMB 
 Tris pCi pg pl pM 
 VEGF 
 VSV 
 VV 
 WB 
 WHO 
 X-MLV 
 Tris-borate/EDTA electrophoresis buffer tissue culture trichloroacetic acid tissue culture media tissue culture thymidine kinase transmembrane tetramethylbenzidine tris (hydroxymethyl) aminomethane microcurie microgram microliter micromolar vascular endothelial growth factor vesicular stomatitis virus vaccinia virus Western blotting World Health Organization xenotropic murine leukemia virus 
 AGS 
 Cell Lines cell line derived from a primary adenogastric carcinoma [Barranco and Townsend, Cancer Res., 43: 1703 (1983) and Invest. New Drugs, 1117 (1983)]; available from the ATCC under CRL-1739; RCC cell line (ATCC HTB-44) bovine B lymphocytes [ATCC CRL-8037; leukemia cell suspension; J. Natl. Cancer Inst. (Bethesda) 40: 737 (1968)]; A498 BL-3 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 C33 C33A 
 COS 
 HeLa HeLa K a cell line derived from a human cervical carcinoma biopsy [Auersperg, J. Nat'l. Cancer Inst. (Bethesda), 32: 135- 148 (1964)]; available from the ATCC under HTB-31; human cervical carcinoma cells [ATCC HTB-31; J. Natl. 
 Cancer Inst. (Bethesda) 32: 135 (1964)]; CHO wild-type, parental to Ka13, the same cell line as that described in Wood et al., J. Biol. Chem., 273: 8360-8368 (1998); simian cell line [Gluzman, Cell, 23: 175 (1981)]; from American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) standard type of HeLa cells; aneuploid, epithelial-like cell line isolated from a human cervical adenocarcinoma [Gey et al., Cancer Res., 12: 264 (1952); Jones et al., Obstet. 
 Gynecol., 38: 945-949 (1971)] obtained from Professor B. 
 Korych, [Institute of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Charles University; Prague, Czech Republic]; Mutant HeLa clone that is hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase-deficient (HGPRT-) kindly provided by Eric J. Stanbridge [Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, University of California, Irvine, CA (USA)] and reported in Stanbridge et al., Science, 215: 252-259 (15 Jan. 1982); parent of hybrid cells H/F-N and H/F-T, also obtained from E.J. Stanbridge; A cell line derived from colorectal carcinoma. (ATCC No. 
 HBT-38; DSMZ ACC299); HeLa D98/AH.2 (also HeLa s) HT29 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Ka13 -CHO mutant cell functionally defective for the HIF-1 a O subunit, the same cell line as that described in Wood et al. 
 O 
 C (1998), supra; KATO III cell line prepared from a metastatic form of a gastric Cl carcinoma [Sekiguichi et al., Japan J. Exp. Med., 48: 61 (1978)]; available from the ATCC under HTB-103; \0 
 O 
 O 
 MDCK The MDCK cell line was derived from a kidney from an apparently normal adult female cocker spaniel by S.H. 
 g Madin and N.B. Barby in 1958. (ATCC CCL-34); 
 O 
 NIH-3T3 murine fibroblast cell line reported in Aaronson, Science, 237: 178 (1987); quail fibrosarcoma cells [ECACC: 93120832; Cell, 11: (1977)]; Raj human Burkitt's lymphoma cell line [ATCC CCL-86; Lancet, 1: 238 (1964)]; Rat2TK- cell line (rat embryo, thymidine kinase mutant) was derived from a subclone of a 5'-bromo-deoxyuridine resistant strain of the Fischer rat fibroblast 3T3-like cell line Ratl; the cells lack appreciable levels of nuclear thymidine kinase [Ahrens, Virology, 113: 408 (1981)]; SiHa human cervical squamous carcinoma cell line [ATCC Friedl et al., Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med., 135: 543 (1990)]; XC cells derived from a rat rhabdomyosarcoma induced with Rous sarcoma virus-induced rat sarcoma [Svoboda, Natl. 
 Cancer Center Institute Monograph No. 17, IN: "International WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 CGL1 CGL2 CGL3 CGL4 Conference on Avian Tumor Viruses" Beard pp. 
 277-298 (1964)], kindly provided by Jan Svoboda [Institute of Molecular Genetics, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences; Prague, Czech Republic]; and H/F-N hybrid cells (HeLa D98/AH.2 derivative); H/F-N hybrid cells (HeLa D98/AH.2 derivative); H/F-T hybrid cells (HeLa D98/AH.2 derivative); HF-T hybrid cells (HeLa D98/Ah.2 derivative). 
 Nucleotide and Amino Acid Sequence Symbols The following symbols are used to represent nucleotides herein: Base Symbol Meaning A adenine C cytosine G guanine T thvmine uracil inosine AorC AorG A or T/U CorG C or T/U G or T/U A or C or G A or C or T/U A or G or T/U C or G or T/U A or C or G or T/U 
 H 
 D 
 B 
 NIX 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 There are twenty main amino acids, each of which is specified by a different arrangement of three adjacent nucleotides (triplet code or codon), and which are linked together in a specific order to form a characteristic protein. A threeletter or one-letter convention is used herein to identify said amino acids, as, for example, in Figure 1 as follows: Amino acid name Alanine Arginine Asparagine Aspartic Acid Cysteine Glutamic Acid Glutamine Glycine Histidine Isoleucine Leucine Lysine Methionine Phenylalanine Proline Serine Threonine Tryptophan Tyrosine Valine Unknown or other 3 Ltr. 
 Abbrev. 
 Ala Arg Asn Asp Cys Glu Gin Gly His lie Leu Lys Met Phe Pro Ser Thr Trp Tyr Val 1 Ltr. 
 Abbrev. 
 A 
 R 
 N 
 D 
 C 
 E 
 Q 
 G 
 H 
 I 
 L 
 K 
 M 
 F 
 P 
 S 
 T 
 W 
 Y 
 V 
 X 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES Figure 1A-C provides the nucleotide sequence for a MN cDNA [SEQ ID NO: 1] clone isolated as described herein. Figure 1 A-C also sets forth the predicted amino acid sequence [SEQ ID NO: 2] encoded by the cDNA. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Figure 2A-F provides a 10,898 bp complete genomic sequence of MN O [SEQ ID NO: The base count is as follows: 2654 A; 2739 C; 2645 G; and 2859 
 O 
 Cl T. The 11 exons are in general shown in capital letters, but exon 1 is considered to Sbegin at position 3507 as determined by RNase protection assay. 
 Figure 3 provides an exon-intron map of the human MN/CA IX gene. 
 Cl The positions and sizes of the exons (numbered, cross-hatched boxes), Alu repeat elements (open boxes) and an LTR-related sequence (first unnumbered stippled box) are adjusted to the indicated scale. The exons corresponding to individual MN/CA IX protein domains are enclosed in dashed frames designated PG (proteoglycan-like domain), CA (carbonic anhydrase domain), TM (transmembrane anchor) and IC (intracytoplasmic tail). Below the map, the alignment of amino acid O sequences illustrates the extent of homology between the MN/CA IX protein PG region (aa 53-111) [SEQ ID NO: 8] and the human aggrecan (aa 781-839) [SEQ ID NO: Figure 4 schematically represents the MN protein structure. The abbreviations are the same as used in Figure 3. The scale indicates the number of amino acids. 
 Figure 5(A) shows the alignment of amino acid sequences of the human CA IX (HCA IX) and the mouse CA IX (MCA IX) proteins deduced from the corresponding cDNAs [Pastorek et al. (1994), EMBL Accession No. X66839; Ortova Gut et al. (2002), EMBL Accession No. AJ245857]. Homologous amino acids are written on a grey background. Figure 5(B) is a schematic illustration of CA IX variants used for immunization and/or immunodetection purposes as described herein. The positions of the amino acids related to CA IX domain composition and to regions involved in variants are indicated below. Arrangement of antigenic sites for the antibodies assumed from the competitive assay, is shown above the scheme. The percentage of amino acid homology between human and mouse CA IX proteins is written inside the linear model of the full-length human CA IX protein, that is composed of signal peptide proteoglycan-like region carbonic anhydrase domain transmembrane anchor (TM) and intracytoplasmic tail (IC). 
 Figure 6 provides a checker board map of antigenic sites delineated on the basis of the competitive binding ELISA. Antigen-coated plates were incubated with fixed amount of biotin-labeled antibody and increasing amount of non-labeled WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M competitor antibody. Results are expressed as a percentage of absorbance 0 measured in the absence of the competitor antibody. 
 O 
 Nl Figure 7 shows the relationship between CA9 and other breast tumour Smarkers in malignant breast specimens as evaluated by chi-square and Mann- Whitney tests. Figure 7(A) illustrates the percentage of breast marker-positive C tumours in subgroups of CA9-positive versus CA9-negative specimens. The significance of the association between expression of CA9 and individual markers is I given above the appropriate columns. Concordance of data corresponds to the percentage of specimens showing equal positivity/negativity for both CA9 and the particular other marker. Figure 7(B) illustrates the range of 5% to 95% quantile and median of expression of marker-specific PCR products detected in marker-positive 0 tumours from CA9-positive and CA9-negative subgroups, respectively, with values of significance above the relevant columns. 
 Figure 8 shows the strategy for the targeted disruption of the mouse Car9 gene. Figure 8A Targeting strategy: top, genomic structure of Car9 locus showing exons 1-9; middle, pCar9-neo targeting vector of 6.8 kb with pgk-neo cassette replacing 14 bp in exon 1, bottom, structure of the gene after homologous recombination. The 4.0 kb Xbal and 6.5 kb EcoRI fragments present in the wild type allele are shown above, and the 2.0 kb Xbal and 8.3 kb EcoRI fragments present in the mutated allele are shown below. Positions of the restriction sites for BamHI Hindlll and the probes used to distinguish between the wild type and the mutant alleles after digestion with EcoRI are indicated. Figure 8B The position of the primers on the Car9 genomic locus is schematically illustrated. 
 Figure 9 provides a statistical analysis of the numbers of cells in stomachs of Car9 4 '"versus Car9' mice. As quantified by the Mann-Whitney rank test, the mutant mouse stomachs showed significantly increased total numbers of cells on one hand and decreased numbers of H /K+-ATPase positive parietal cells and pepsinogen-positive chief cells on the other hand. Regression analysis revealed significant correlation between total cells numbers and numbers of parietal cells in gastric units and significant difference between the slopes of regression lines corresponding to gastric units of Car9 and Car9 mice, respectively. 
 Figure 10 shows the results of ELISAs for CA IX antigen. HT29 cells were grown in 5 cm Petri dish, supplied with 5 ml of media, and exchanged 2 days before harvest. The extract from cell monolayer in this culture contained 5 mg of total S protein. Extracts from the tumours were prepared directly from the excisions, without S previous cultivation in vitro. Media from the cultures of tumour fragments were harvested after 2 days. A purified CA IX protein (described in Zavada et al, 2000); B TC media; C extracts from cells and tumours; O purified CA IX; A498 cells; 0 HT29 cells; patients No. A= 38; T= 50; 59. 
 N DETAILED DESCRIPTION S) The following references are cited herein or provide updated information concerning the MN/CA9 gene and the MN/CA IX protein. All the listed references as well as other references cited herein are specifically incorporated by reference. 
 Aboagye et al., Anticancer Drug Des., 13(6): 703-730 (Sep. 1998) Airley et al., Clin. Cancer Res., 7: 928-934 (2001) Airley et al., Brit. J. Cancer, 86 (Suppl. S13-S33 (2002) Arteaga, Breast Cancer Res., 96-100 (2003) Bartosova et al., J. Pathol., 197: 1-8 (2002) Beasley et al., Cancer Research, 61: 5262-5267 (2001) Bergstein, Breast Cancer: Molecular Genetics, Pathoqenesis, and Therapeutics, Bowcock AM Humana Press: Totowa, pp. 143-169 (1999) Brizel et al., Cancer Res., 56: 941-943 (1996) Brizel et al., Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol. Phys., 38: 285-289 (1997) Carney et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,401,638 Chapman, Radiother. Oncol., 20(Suppl. 18-19 (1991) Chegwidden et al. "The Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors New Horizons," EXS (Basel) Vol. 90 (2000) Christianson and Cox, Annu. Rev. Biochem., 68: 33-57 (1999) EXS (Experientia Supplementa) (Basel) Vol. 90 [Birkhauser; Boston, MA (USA): 2000] Chia et al., J. Clin. Oncol., 19: 3660-3668 (2001) Chrastina et al., "Biodistribution and Pharmacokinetics of 25 1-labeled Monoclonal Antibody Specific for Carbonic Anhydrase IX, an Intrinsic Marker of Hypoxia, in Nude Mice Xenografted with Human Colorectal Carcinoma," International Journal of Cancer, 106(6): 873- 881 (July 20, 2003) Clark Immunol. Today, 21(8): 397-402 (Aug. 2000) Dachs et al., Nature Medicine, 3: 515-520 (1997) Dalbadie-McFarland et al., PNAS (USA), 79: 6409 (1982) z Davis et al., Cancer Metastasis Rev., 18(4): 421-425 (1999) Ebert et al., J. Biol. Chem., 270(49): 29083-29089 (1995) Evans et al., Cancer Res., 56: 405-411 (1996) Ey et al., Biochemistry, 15: 429-436 (1978) IO Fleming et al., J. Clin. Invest., 96: 2907-2913 (1995) Forsythe et al., Mol. Cell. Biol., 16: 4604-4613 (1996) g Fyles et al., Radiother. Oncol., 45: 149-156 (1998) Gavilondo and Larrick, Biotechniques, 29(1): 128-132, 134-136 and 183 passim (July 2000) Gibadulinova et al., Acta Virol., 42: 369-374 (1999) Giatromanolaki et al., Cancer Res., 61(21): 7992-7998 (2001) Glennie et al., Nature, 295: 712 (1982) Goldyne et al., Adv. Exp. Med. Biol: 314: 317-327 (1991) Gray et al., Br. J. Radiol., 26: 638-648 (1953) Gumbiner, Cell, 84: 345-357 (1996) Gura, Nature, 417(6889): 584-586 (June 6, 2002) Jain and Baxter, Cancer Res., 48: 7022-7032 (1988) Jain et al., Nature Med., 131-132 (2000) Hall, Radiobioloqy for the Radiologist, 5 th ed., Philadelphia Lippincott (1998) Harris, Nature Reviews Cancer, 2: 38-47 (2002) Heber et al., Adv. Exp. Med. Biol., 399: 41-51 (1996) Hockel and Vaupel, Journal of National Cancer Institute, 93(4): 266-276 (Feb. 
 21,2001) Hockel and Vaupel., CME J. Gyn. Oncol., 6/2: 216-225 (2001) Hockel and Vaupel, Seminars in Oncol., 28 (Supp.. 36-41 (April 2001) Hockel et al., Radiother. Oncol., 26: 45-50 (1993) Hocker et al., Am. J. Physiol., 270: G619-633 (1996) Hodgkiss et al., Adv. Exp. Med. Biol., 428: 61-67 (1997) WO 03/100029 WO 03/00029PCT/US03/05136 0 Holliger and Bohlen, Cancer Metastasis Rev.. 18(4): 411-419 (1999) 00 Hoogenboom and Chames, Immunol. Today, 21(8): 371-378 (Aug. 2000) 6 Hui et al., Clinical Cancer Research, 8: 2595-2604 (2002) 0 Hunter, "Radloimmunoassay," In: Handbook of Experimental Immunology 5 pp. 14.1-14.40 Weir ed.; Blackwell, Oxford/London/Edinburgh/Melbourne; 1978 0Ishikawa et al., J. Exp. Med., 186: 999-1014 (1997) a Ivanov et al., FNAS (USA), 95: 12596-12601 (1998) a Ivanov et al., American Journal of Pathology, 158: 905-919 (2001) 10 Kaestner et al., Genes 0ev., 11: 1583-1595 (1997) 00 Kallinowski et al,, Int. J. Radiat Oncol. Biol. Phys., 19: 953-961 (1990) Kaluz et al., Journal of Biological Chemistry, 274: 32588-32595 (1999) Kaluz et al., Cancer Research, 62: 4469-4477 (2002) 16 9 Karam et al., Am. J. Physiol., 272: G1209-1220 (1997) 0 Kaufmann et al., Lancet, 345: 615-619 (1995) Kennedy et al., Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol. Phys., 37: 897-905 (1997) 0 Knowlden at al., Oncogene. 17: 1949-1957 (1998) Koch et al., Br. J. Cancer, 72: 869-874 (1995) e Korinek et al., Nature Genetics, 19: 379-383 (1998) 0 Koukarakis et al., Clin. Cancer Res. 7(11): 3399-3403 (2001) Kuter, The Oncologist, 6: 338-346 (2001) 0 Lane et al., Meth. Enzymol., 121: 183-192 (1986) 0 Laughner et al., Mol. Cell Biol., 21: 3995 (2001) 9 Lee et al., J. Olin. Invest., 106: 1447-1445 (2000) Lefebvre et al., Science, 274: 259-262 (1996) Lewis et al., PNAS (USA) 85: 1962-1966 (1988) Li at al., Mol Cell Biol., 20: 697-701 (2000) Liao and Stanbridge, Cancer Eidemiol. Biomar. Prey., 5: 549-557 (1996) 9 Liao and Stanbridge, Cace, 8: 1108-1121 (2000) Liao et al., Am. J. Pathol., 145: 598-609 (1994) Liao et al., Cancer Re.,57L: 2827-2831 (1997) Lieskovska et al., Neoplasma, 46: 17-24 (1999) WO 03/100029 WO 03/00029PCT/US03/05136 0 Lindmo et al, J. Immunol. Methods, 72: 77-89 (1984) 0 Loncaster et al., Cancer Res., 61: 6394-6399 (2001) 0 Mandriota et al., Cancer Cell, 1: 459-468 (2002) 0 Marks et al., BioTechnologqy, 10: 779 (1992) 5 Maren, J. Glaucoma, 49-62 (1995) 0 Maxwell et al., PNAS (USA), 90: 2423-2427 (1993) McKiernan et al., Cancer Res., 57: 2362-2365 (1997) O McKiernan et al., Cancer, 86: 492-497 (1999) Murakami et al., BUIt,83: 743-747 (1999) C] 10 o Moinfar et al., Cancer Res., 60: 2562-2556 (2000) 00 Nordsmark et al., Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol. Phys. 49(2): 581-586 (2001) Nordsmark at al., Radiother. Oncol., 41: 31-39 (1996) Olive et al., Cancer Research, 61: 8924-8929 (2001) Opavsky et al., Genomics, 33: 480-487 (1996) Ortova-Gut et al., Gastroenterology, 123: 1889-1903 (2002) Osborne et al., Science Mad: 32-41 (1996) 0 Owens and Young, J. Immunol. Methods, 168(2): 149-165 (Feb. 10, 1994) Parkkila and Parkkila, Scand. J. Gastroenterol., 31: 305-317 (1996) Parkkila et al., PNAS (USA), 97: 2220-2224 (2000) o Pastorek et al., Oncocgane, 9: 2877-2888 (1994) 0 Pastorekova et al., Virologyv, 187: 620-626 (1992) Pastorekova et al., Gastroenterology, 112: 398-408 (1997) 0 Pales et al., Cell, 2 251-260 (1995) 0 Petit et al., Am. J. Pathol., 151: 1523-1530 (1997) 9 Powell at al., Radiother. Oncol. 50(2): 167-171 (Feb 1999) Raleigh et al., Cancer Res., 58(17): 3765-3768 (Sep. 1, 1998) o Ramalho-Santos at al., Development, 127: 2763-2772 (2000) Revillion et at., Euro J. Cancer, 34: 791-808 (1998) 0 Saanio et al., Gut, 41(3): 186 (1997) o Saarnio at at., Am. J. Pathol., 153: 279-285 (1998) Saarnio et at., J. Histochemn Ctochem, 46: 497-504 (1998) 0 Saarnio at at., J. Histocham. Cylocham., 47: 517-524 (1999) WO 03/100029 WO 03/00029PCT/US03/05136 0 Saarnio et al, Journal of Hepatolociv, 35: 643-649 (2001) 0 Sandhu, Crit. Rev. Biotechnol., 12(5-6): 437-462 (1992) 0 ScanTf et al., Gastronenterology, 117: 605-618 (1999) 9 Seibert and Chenchik, Nucleic Acids Res., 21: 2019-2020 (1993) Sharp et al., Development, 121: 149-151 (1995) 0 Spicer et al., J. Biol. Chem., 275: 21555-21565 (2000) Stratford and Workman, Anti Cancer Drug Desicin. 13: 519-528 (1998) O* Sundfor et al., Br. J. Cancer, 78: 88822-88827 (1998) Sundfor et al., Radiother. Oncol., 54: 101-107 (2000) C] 10 Supuran and Scozzafava, Expert Opin. Then. Patents, 12(2): 217-242 (2002) 00 Supuran et al., Bioorg. Med. Chem., 9: 703-714 (2001) Swinson et al., Br. J. Cancer, 86 (Supp. S13 (2002) Swinson et al., J. Olin. Oncol., 21(3): 473-482 (Feb. 1, 2003) a Teichen et al., Anticancer Res., 13(5A): 1549-1556 (1993) Trikha et al., Current Opinion in Biotechnology, 13(6): 609-614 (2002) Turner et al., Hum. Pathol., 28: 740-744 (1997) Turner et al., Brit. J. Cancer, 86: 1276-1282 (2002) Uemura et al., B. J. Cancer, 81: 741-746 (1999) Varia et al., Gynecol. Oncol., 71: 270-277 (1998) e Vaughan et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 16(6): 535-539 (June 1998) Vaupel and Hoeckel, Intl. J. Oncol., 17(5): 869-879 (Nov. 2000) Vaupel and Hoeckel, Adv. Expj. Med. Biol., 471: 533-539 (2000) 0 Vermylen et al., Eur. Resp. 14: 806-81 1 (1999) a Von Mehren et al., Annu. Rev. Med., 54: 343-369 (2003) e Wiesener et al., Blood, 92: 2260-2268 (1998) Wingo et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm., 288: 666-669 (2001) World Health Organization. Histological typing of breast tumnours. 2 nd ed. In: International Histological Classification of Tumours, Geneva: World Health Organization, 1981 Wright, Int. J. Exp. Pathol., 81: 117-143 (2000) Wykoff et al., Cancer Res., 60: 7075-7083 (2000) Wykoff et al., Am. J. Pathol., 158(3): 1011-1019 (March 2001) WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Young et al., PNAS (USA), 85: 9533-9537 (1988) 0 Zavada et al., Int. J. Cancer, 54: 268-274 (1993) Zavada et al., Brit. J. Cancer, 82: 1808-1813 (2000) S* Zou and Rajewsky, Science, 262(5137): 1271-1274 (Nov. 19, 1993) cl Previous attempts to produce CA IX-specific antibodies with specificity different from the M75 monoclonal antibody had been unsuccessful apparently due 
 LO 
 0 to the fact that human CA IX differs from the mouse homologue predominantly in the 
 LO 
 N-terminal amino acid sequence containing the M75 epitope. This sequence appears S 10 to be strongly immunogenic possibly because the immunized mice recognize it as Q non-self, while they do not direct a humoral response to the other, more conserved parts of the human CA IX molecule. 
 Disclosed herein are detailed methods in Examples 1 and 2 on how to generate from CA IX-deficient mice, hybridoma cell lines producing monoclonal antibodies specific for different extracellular regions of human CA IX protein. 
 Provided herein is detailed characterization of those monoclonal antibodies, assessment of their reactivity in various immunodetection methods, and the relative position of the epitopes. Further provided are various clinical, diagnostic/prognostic, therapeutic and experimental utilities for those monoclonal antibodies. 
 Preparation of CA IX Deficient Mice and New CAIX-Specific Antibodies Generated from Said CA IX-Deficient Mice Example 1 details how the MN/CA IX-deficient mice were generated. 
 The knock out mice were used to generate new CA IX-specific monoclonal antibodies (mabs), some of which were directed to other than the CA IX immunodominant epitopes. 
 It was one object of the inventors to generate monoclonal antibodies (mabs) directed to epitopes different than that to which the M75 mab is directed and/or to generate antibodies with the same epitope specificity as the M75 mab, but with different biological properties. To generate such mabs, the inventors used the knock out mice with the targeted disruption of Car9 gene (coding for mouse MN/CA IX protein), as described herein and in Ortova-Gut et al. (2002) because the knock WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 out mice recognize the entire human MN/CA IX protein as a foreign molecule and 0 may potentially develop humoral responses to epitopes localized in various regions C of the human MN/CA IX protein. 
 SIn contrast, the wild type mice (wt mice) that express mouse MN/CA IX protein direct the immune response to the N-terminal part of human MN/CA IX NC because the N-terminal part of the human MN/CA IX protein differs more from the mouse protein than other domains of the human MN/CA IX protein. The wt mice O preferentially produce antibodies to epitopes close to or overlapping the epitope to which the M75 mab is directed. 
 Initial experiments immunizing the MNICA IX-deficient mice with mouse cells transfected with human MN/CA IX cDNA were not successful, as all the mabs 0 produced were directed to the N-terminal domain of the human MN/CA IX protein, as is the M75 mab. If mabs to epitopes in other regions of the MN/CA IX protein were to be produced, a different immunization protocol was determined to be necessary at about amino acids (aa) 53-111 (SEQ ID NO. 8) or preferably at about aa 52-125 (SEQ ID NO: 98). 
 There were a number of challenges to overcome. During hybridoma generation, there were several technical problems that required specific solution. 
 First, it was a suitable immunization procedure that had to be invented to assure production of required antibodies. For that purpose, we used different types of immunogens including the recombinant variant of CA IX protein containing the central carbonic anhydrase domain, but lacking N-terminal PG domain (see Example 2 below that shows, which immunization scheme led to production of MN/CA IXspecific antibodies). The other technical problem was development of appropriate screening system that would allow for selection MN/CA IX-specific antibodies and elimination of the non-specific ones, as explained in Example 1. 
 The inventors produced a recombinant variant of human MN/CA IX protein containing only the central carbonic anhydrase domain of MN/CA IX (the CA IX domain), but lacking the N-terminal PG domain as well as the transmembrane and intracytoplasmic regions. The cDNA coding for the CA IX domain was fused to glutathione-S-transferase (GST), expressed in bacteria and purified by affinity chromatography using glutathione S-Sepharose (Pharmacia). The GST-CA IX protein was inoculated as a third immunization dose either bound to the sepharose or eluted from the matrix. The improved immunization protocols, new fusions, yields WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 of hybridomas and numbers of MN/CA IX specific clones are summarized in the O tables of Example 2. 
 O 
 Ten new fusions were made and more than 8000 clones were grown O and screened. All MN/CA IX-specific hybridomas were subjected to the freezingrefreezing procedure and consequent subcloning (at least 100 subclones for each clone) in order to select the hybridomas of optimum viability and stable antibody production. That very significant effort resulted in the generation of 11 hybridomas Ssynthesizing MN/CA-IX-specific monoclonal antibodies. 
 The new MN/CA IX-specific mabs were analyzed to determine their isotype and extensively tested for their reactivity by different immunodetection Smethods as described in Example 2. Knowledge of the mab isotype is important O because the constant region of IgG is closely associated with its biological activity. 
 Various isotypes carry out different effector functions, including complement activation and antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity. Most of the new antibodies were of IgG2a isotype. Those were able to recognize and bind to the fulllength MN/CA IX protein in all tested methods, i.e. ELISA, Western blotting, immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence. There were also two IgM and two IgG1 antibodies that did not react in immunoprecipitation because of their inability or decreased capacity to bind via Fc fragments to Protein A Sepharose. However, those antibodies showed MN/CA IX-specific reactivity in ELISA, Western blotting and immunofluorescence. The results indicate that the new antibodies recognize both native and denatured MN/CA IX protein and are potentially useful for different immunodetection approaches. 
 To determine the domain specificity of the new antibodies, the inventors used the full-length MN/CA IX antigen as well as the antigen lacking the CA domain to test the Mab reactivity in both immunoprecipitation and immunoflourescence. Monoclonal antibodies VIl/20, VII/28, VII/32, Vll/38, V/10 and V/12 immunoprecipitated the full-length MN/CA IX protein, but failed to react with the ACA deletion variant. Similar reactivity was observed in the immunofluorescence experiments, indicating that those antibodies are specific for the CA domain of MN/CA IX. 
 Mab V l/13 with predicted anti-CA specificity reacted well with the fulllength MN/CA IX upon Western blotting. On the other hand, it did not show any reactivity in immunoprecipitation or immunofluorescence. The inventors consider WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 that that mab may be directed to a cryptotope that can be exposed only after the full O denaturation of the antigen, whereas it remains hidden in the native or only partially C denatured protein. 
 SAmong four of the new mabs with the proposed specificity to the Nterminal PG domain of MN/CA IX, three (IV/6, IV/14, IV/11) were of isotypes that are l not applicable for immunoprecipitation, because they do not bind to protein A. 
 Antibody IV/18 was able to immunoprecipitate the full-length MN/CA IX protein but O not the ACA deletion variant. On the other hand, it reacted well with both types of antigen in immunofluorescence. Surprisingly, Mab IV/11 exhibited cytoplasmic reactivity with FL and ACA in immunofluorescence experiments. That result might Sbe explained by its specificity to an immature intracytoplasmic form of the protein. 
 O Predicted domain specificity of the new monoclonal antibodies corresponds to their capacity to compete with the M75 mab for binding to MN/CA IX as determined in competitive ELISA using biotinylated M75 mab and individual mabs in samples of hybridoma medium. Preliminary data indicates that the inventors have successfully generated seven new monoclonal antibodies whose epitopes are different from that of the M75 mabs. Another four new mabs seem to be directed to epitopes overlapping the M75 mab's epitope, but have a different isotype than the M75 mab does. 
 Study of in vitro biological activities of the new monolonal antibodies The most intriguing and significant feature of the monoclonal antibodies is their ability to interfere with tumor cell growth, which ability can be exploited in antitumor therapy. Biological activity of the monoclonal antibodies may be related either to their isotype or to their capacity to engage the receptor molecule and block the signal transduction pathway. Isotype determines the Fc-receptor-dependent mechanisms that contribute substantially to the action of cytotoxic antibodies against tumors antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, ADCC and complementmediated cell lysis). Several mouse monoclonal antibodies of IgG1 and IgG2a isotypes and specificity against different antigens (including HER2/neu, PSCA) have been shown to stimulate ADCC. Some antibodies may have also a "direct" activity due to receptor-ligand blockade or triggering the pro-apoptotic WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 c response trastuzumab, a humanized IgG1 antibody to HER2/neu, and its O "parent" mouse antibody). 
 As a first step to evaluation of the therapeutic potential of the new Smonoclonal antibodies specific for MN/CA IX, the inventors are analyzing the effects of the mabs on tumor cell growth and invasion in vitro. The cells are being cultivated in different conditions (including normoxia, hypoxia, serum-starvation, low glucose) and treated with various concentrations of the purified mabs. Proliferation of the Q treated cells will be measured by MTS assay, and the extent of apoptosis will be determined by TdT labeling and FACS analysis. In addition, the capacity of the new 10 mabs to influence in vitro invasion of the tumor cells through the matrigel O membranes will be analysed. The mabs may be combined therapeutically with S chemotherapeutic agents. Such a combination has been shown to be effective for trastuzumab that was also developed from a typical mouse monoclonal antibody. 
 Therefore, the additive effect of the drugs and MN/CA IX-specific antibody treatment to select mabs with the potential therapeutic efficacy is being investigated. 
 Humanized, partially or compeletely, versions of such mabs can be prepared. 
 Those monoclonal antibodies that react with the CA domain of MN/CA IX will be subjected to additional analysis to evaluate their potential capacity to inhibit the enzyme activity of MN/CA IX. The enzyme activity is thought to be highly relevant for the biological role of MN/CA IX. Therefore, the "anti-catalytic" antibodies may become useful tools to elucidate the real significance of CA activity of MN/CA IX in tumor biology and may possibly act in the modulation of tumor growth. 
 Also, the inventors are evaluating the capacity of the MN/CA IX-specific antibodies to induce ADCC in vitro. Most of the new antibodies are of IgG2a isotype and two of them are IgG1 isotype both isotypes have been shown to be effective in complement and cell-mediated lysis. 
 Generation of monoclonal antibodies to mouse MN/CA IX protein The inventors perceive that investigators involved in the pre-clinical research of tumor hypoxia and anti-hypoxic therapeutic approaches would like to use specific antibodies for detection of the mouse MN/CA IX as a marker of hypoxia in experimentally induced mouse tumors. The M75 mab is not suitable for that purpose. The M75 mab recognizes the rat and pig proteins, but not the mouse WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 homolog, because its epitope is not preserved in the primary structure of the mouse 
 O 
 O MN/CA IX. 
 Availability of the cDNA encoding the mouse MNICA IX protein allows Sproduction of a sufficient amount of a recombinant antigen that can be used for the immunization of the MNICA IX-deficient mice and generation of corresponding monoclonal antibodies. Such mabs to the mouse MN/CA IX protein may be very useful for future studies of tumor progression utilizing animal models. In addition, the Q anti-mouse mabs may represent useful tools for pre-clinical examinations of therapeutic targeting of MN/CA IX-positive tumors without the need for 10 immunodeficient animals xenografted with the human tumor cells. 
 o Whether some of the new mabs against human MN/CA IX cross-react S with the mouse protein is being investigated. Especially those directed to the CA domain are good candidates because the mouse and human MN/CA IX proteins differ mostly in the N-terminal PG-like regions, but show high sequence homology in the CA domain. Therefore, the reactivity of anti-human mabs to the mouse antigen (both recombinant and extracted from the cells transfected with the mouse cDNA) is being tested. 
 Example 1 provides the details on how the CA IX-deficient mice (mice with null mutation of Car9) were prepared by targeted gene disruption. Example 1 also reports on the identification of a Car9 cDNA and gene encoding the mouse CA IX, phenotypic consequences of a targeted disruption of Car9 gene and their impact on understanding the physiological significance of CA IX. 
 CA IX is a highly active enzyme with adhesion, functionally implicated in acid-base balance and intercellular communication. It is normally present in the basolateral membranes of gastrointestinal epithelium and ectopically expressed in many carcinomas. The CA IX deficient mice revealed much about its physiological relevance. 
 Mice homozygous for the mutation developed gastric hyperplasia of the glandular epithelium with numerous cysts. The first changes were observed in the newborn animals, indicating involvement of CA IX in the development. The hyperplasia of the stomach corpus became prominent at the end of gastric morphogenesis in four-weeks-old mice. Loss of CA IX led to overproduction of mucus-secreting pit cells and reduction of both pepsinogen-positive chief cells and H/K+-ATPase-positive parietal cells. It was concluded that phenotypic WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M consequences of the Car9 null mutation demonstrate important and non-redundant 0 role of CA IX in morphogenesis and homeostasis of the glandular gastric epithelium Cl via the control of cell proliferation and differentiation. More detail concerning those Spoints can be found in Example 1 and in Ortova-Gut et al., Gastroenterology, 123: 1889-1903 (2002), the latter showing captioned photographs. 
 Cl One of skill in the art with the instant disclosure enabling the production of CA IX specific antibodies to the CA domain, could analogously make CA IXspecific antibodies to the other CA IX domains. For example, instead of using the recombinant CA domain of CA IX fused to GST as the booster in the protocols of Example 2 below, one of skill in the art would know that using a recombinant TM (SEQ ID NO: 6) domain or a recombinant IC (SEQ ID NO: 7) domain of CA IX O would produce antibodies primarily directed to the respective domain used as the booster. Conventional variations of such methods, for example, using synthetic proteins/polypeptides of the selected domain are within the skill of the art. 
 One of skill in the art could also make antibodies to other regions of CA IX by conventional methods known in the art. For example, peptides from a CA IX region could be conjugated to a carrier, for example, to keyhole limpet hemacyanin (KLH), to prepare antibodies, either polyclonal or monoclonal, to the selected peptide. Such antibodies could be screened by conventional means to determine whether the resulting antibodies are specific to the selected domain. Anti-peptide production services are commercially available, for example, from Aves Labs, Inc. in Tigard, Oregon (USA). 
 Immunodominant Epitopes in PG Domain and In Neighboring Regions Figure 4 schematiclly shows the basic structure of the full-length CA IX. 
 As indicated above, the extracellular domain comprises the PG and CA domains as well as some spacer or perhaps hinge regions. The CA IX immunodominant epitopes are primarily in the PG region at about aa 53-111 (SEQ ID NO: 8) or at about aa 52-125 (SEQ ID NO: 98), preferably now considered to be at about aa 52- 125 (SEQ ID NO: 98). The immunodominant epitopes of CA IX may be located in regions neighboring the PG region. For example, the epitope for aa 36-51 (SEQ ID NO: 21) would be considered an immunodominant epitope. 
 The main CA IX immunodominant epitope is that for the M75 mab. 
 The M75 monoclonal antibody is considered to be directed to an immunodominant 0 epitope in the N-terminal, proteoglycan-like (PG) region of CA IX. The epitope of 0 M75 has been identified as amino acid sequence PGEEDLP (SEQ ID NO: 11), which is 4x identically repeated in the N-terminal PG region of CA IX [Zavada et al. 
 (2000)]. Closely related epitopes to which the M75 mab may also bind, which are also exemplary of immunodominant epitopes include, for example, the S immunodominant 6X tandem repeat that can be found at amino acids (aa) 61-96 )(SEQ ID NO. 12) of Figure 1A-1C, showing the predicted CA IX amino acid sequence. Variations of the immunodominant tandem repeat epitopes within the PG domain include GEEDLP (SEQ ID NO: 13) (aa 61-66, aa 79-84, aa 85-90 and aa 91-96), EEDL (SEQ ID NO: 14) (aa 62-65, aa 80-83, aa 86-89, aa 92-95), EEDLP (SEQ ID NO: 15) (aa 62-66, aa 80-84, aa 86-90, aa 92-96), EDLPSE (SEQ ID NO: S16) (aa 63-68), EEDLPSE (SEQ ID NO: 17) (aa 62-68), DLPGEE (SEQ ID NO: 18) (aa 82-87, aa 88-93), EEDLPS (SEQ ID NO: 19) (aa 62-67) and GEDDPL (SEQ ID NO: 20) (aa 55-60). Other immunodominant epitopes could include, for example, aa 68-91 (SEQ ID NO: 22). 
 The monoclonal antibodies MN9 and MN12 are considered to be directed to immunodominant epitopes within the N-terminal PG region SEQ ID NOS: 19-20, respectively. The MN7 monoclonal antibody could be directed to an immunodominant epitope neighboring the PG region at aa 127-147 (SEQ ID NO: 23) of Figure 1A-1C. 
 An epitope considered to be preferred within the CA domain (SEQ ID NO: 9) is from about aa 279-291 (SEQ ID NO: 67). An epitope considered to be preferred within the intracellular domain (IC domain) (SEQ ID NO: 7) is from about aa 435-450 (SEQ ID NO: 68). 
 SEQ ID NO: 69 (aa 166-397 of Figure 1A-1C) is considered to be an important antigenic component of the CA domain. There are several antigenic sites within the CA domain. As can be seen in Figure 6, there are four groups of the CA IX-specific monoclonal antibodies prepared in CA IX-deficient mice such that they are directed to the CA domain; three of those groups are within SEQ ID NO: 69. 
 S-CA IX 0 Examples herein show that in addition to its previously described cellassociated form of CA IX (p54/58), there is a soluble form of CA IX. As described S below in Examples 3-9 s-CA IX has been observed in tissue culture media from tumor cell lines, such as HT29. Futhermore, we have found s-CA IX in the blood serum and urine of cancer patients. 
 Preferred soluble forms of CA IX proteins/polypeptides according to this invention are those proteins and/or polypeptides that have substantial homology S with the CA IX protein having the deduced amino acid sequence as shown in Figure on 1 [SEQ ID NO: For example, such substantially homologous soluble CA IX 0 proteins/ polypeptides are those that are reactive with the CA IX-specific antibodies of this invention, preferably the Mabs M75, V-10 or their equivalents. 
 It can also be appreciated that a protein or polypeptide produced by a neoplastic cell in vivo could be altered in sequence from that produced by a tumor Scell in cell culture or by a transformed cell. Thus, CA IX proteins and/or polypeptides which have varying amino acid sequences including without limitation, amino acid substitutions, extensions, deletions, truncations and combinations thereof, fall within the scope of this invention. It can also be appreciated that a protein extant within body fluids is subject to degradative processes, such as, proteolytic processes; thus, soluble CA IX proteins that are significantly truncated and CA IX polypeptides may be found in body fluids, such as, sera. The phrase "CA IX antigen" is used herein to encompass CA IX proteins and/or polypeptides. 
 Assays Assays according to this invention are provided to detect and/or quantitate soluble forms of CA IX antigen in vertebrate samples, preferably mammalian samples, more preferably human samples. Soluble forms of CA IX antigen may be detected by immunoassay, for example, Western blotting or radioimmunoassay, among other techniques. 
 Preferred samples in which to assay soluble forms of CA IX antigen, as the extracellular domain, are body fluids, which can include among other fluids: blood, serum, plasma, semen, breast exudate, gastric secretions, fecal suspensions, bile, saliva, tears, sputum, mucous, urine, lymph, cytosols, ascites, pleural effusions, amniotic fluid, bladder washes, bronchioalveolar lavages and cerebrospinal fluid. It WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M is preferred that the soluble CA IX antigen be concentrated from a larger volume of O body fluid before testing. (Examples 3-11 below are representative.) Preferred body Ctl fluids to assay would depend on the type of cancer for which one was testing, but in ,.general preferred body fluids would be urine, serum, mucous, gastric secretions, bile, breast exudate, pleural effusions and ascites. 
 l The assays of this invention are both diagnostic and/or prognostic, i.e., diagnostic/prognostic. The term "diagnosticf prognostic" is herein defined to O encompass the following processes either individually or cumulatively depending 0 upon the clinical context: determining the presence of disease, determining the 10 nature of a disease, distinguishing one disease from another, forecasting as to the Cl Sprobable outcome of a disease state, determining the prospect as to recovery from a Cl disease as indicated by the nature and symptoms of a case, monitoring the disease status of a patient, monitoring a patient for recurrence of disease, and/or determining the preferred therapeutic regimen for a patient. The diagnostic/prognostic methods of this invention are useful, for example, for screening populations for the presence of neoplastic or pre-neoplastic disease, determining the risk of developing neoplastic disease, diagnosing the presence of neoplastic and/or pre-neoplastic disease, monitoring the disease status of patients with neoplastic disease, and/or determining the prognosis for the course of neoplastic disease. 
 The present invention is useful for screening for the presence of a wide variety of neoplastic diseases as indicated above. The invention provides methods and compositions for evaluating the probability of the presence of malignant or premalignant cells, for example, in a group of cells freshly removed from a host. Such an assay can be used to detect tumors, and help in the diagnosis and prognosis of disease. The assays can also be used to confirm the absence or removal of all tumor tissue following surgery, cancer chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. It can further be used to monitor cancer chemotherapy and tumor reappearance. 
 We have used the method of Western blot in experiments reported in the examples below to confirm the presence of soluble CA IX protein in human urine and serum. This method is time-consuming and laborious. However, the presence of soluble forms of CA IX antigen can be detected and/or quantitated using a number of well-defined diagnostic assays. Those in the art can adapt any of the conventional immunoassay formats to detect and/or quantitate soluble CA IX antigen. A preferred diagnostic format for the method of this invention is the dual WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M antibody sandwich assay. Many other formats for detection of CA IX antigen and CA O IX-specific antibodies are, of course available. Those can be Western blots, ELISAs Cl (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays), RIAs (radioimmunoassay), competitive EIA Sor dual antibody sandwich assays, among other assays all commonly used in the diagnostic industry. In such immunoassays, the interpretation of the results is based NC on the assumption that the antibody or antibody combination will not cross-react with other proteins and protein fragments present in the sample that are unrelated to CA 
 IX. 
 Suitable detection means include the use of labels such as radionuclides, enzymes, coenzymes, fluorescers, chemiluminescers, chromogens, Senzyme substrates or co-factors, enzyme inhibitors, free radicals, particles, dyes and O the like. Such labeled reagents may be used in a variety of well known assays, such as radioimmunoassays, enzyme immunoassays, ELISA, fluorescent immunoassays, and the like. See for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,766,162; 3,791,932; 3,817,837;and 4,233,402. 
 Methods to prepare antibodies useful in the assays of the invention are described below. The examples below detail representative assays according to this invention. 
 Representative of one type of dual antibody sandwich ELISA assay for soluble CA IX antigen is a format wherein a microtiter plate is coated with antibodies made to the extracellular domain of CA IX proteins/polypeptides or antibodies made to whole cells expressing CA IX proteins, and to this is added a patient body fluid sample, for example, serum or urine. After a period of incubation permitting any antigen to bind to the antibodies, the plate is washed and another set of anti-CA IX antibodies which are linked to an enzyme, is added, incubated to allow reaction to take place, and the plate is then rewashed. Thereafter, enzyme substrate is added to the microtiter plate and incubated for a period of time to allow the enzyme to work on the substrate, and the adsorbance of the final preparation is measured. A large change in absorbance indicates a positive result. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the first monoclonal antibody of a dual antibody sandwich assay is selected from the group consisting of the monoclonal antibodies designated which are secreted by the hybridoma VU-M75, and a second enzyme-linked monoclonal antibody is selected from the group consisting of monoclonal antibodies WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M directed to an epitope other than that to which the M75 monoclonal antibody is O directed, more preferably to an epitope other than the proteoglycan domain. 
 CN It is also apparent to one skilled in the art of immunoassays that CA IX Sproteins and/or polypeptides can be used to detect and/or quantitate the presence of soluble CA IX antigen in the body fluids of patients. In one such embodiment, a competition immunoassay is used, wherein the CA IX protein/polypeptide is labeled and a body fluid sample is added to compete with the binding of the labeled CA IX 0 protein/polypeptide to antibodies specific to CA IX protein/polypeptide. 
 In another embodiment, an immunometric assay may be used wherein N 10 a labeled antibody made to a CA IX protein or polypeptide comprising the o extracellular domain is used. In such an assay, the amount of labeled antibody N which complexes with the antigen-bound antibody is directly proportional to the amount of soluble CA IX antigen in the sample. 
 An exemplary immunoassay method of this invention to detect and/or quantitate soluble CA IX antigen in a vertebrate sample comprises the steps of: a) incubating said vertebrate sample with one or more sets of antibodies (an antibody or antibodies) that bind to soluble CA IX antigen wherein one set is labeled or otherwise detectable; b) examining the incubated sample for the presence of immune complexes comprising soluble CA IX antigen and said antibodies. 
 Another exemplary immunoassay method according to this invention is that wherein a competition immunoassay is used to detect and/or quantitate soluble CA IX antigen in a vertebrate sample and wherein said method comprises the steps of: a) incubating a vertebrate sample with one or more sets of CA IXspecific antibodies and a certain amount of a labeled or otherwise detectable CA IX protein/polypeptide wherein said CA IX protein/ polypeptide competes for binding to said antibodies with soluble CA IX antigen present in the sample; b) examining the incubated sample to determine the amount of labeled/detectable CA IX protein/polypeptide bound to said antibodies; and c) determining from the results of the examination in step b) whether soluble CA IX antigen is present in said sample and/or the amount of soluble CA IX antigen present in said sample. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M, Once antibodies (including biologically active antibody fragments) O having suitable specificity have been prepared, a wide variety of immunological CN assay methods are available for determining the formation of specific antibody-antigen complexes. Numerous competitive and non-competitive protein binding assays have been described in the scientific and patent literature, and a t C large number of such assays are commercially available. Exemplary immunoassays which are suitable for detecting a serum antigen include those described in U.S. 
 O Patent Nos. 3,984,533; 3,996,345; 4,034,074; and 4,098,876. 
 A hybridoma that produces a representative CA IX-specific antibody, 10 the monoclonal antibody M75 (Mab M75), was deposited at the ATCC under Number o HB 11128 as indicated above. The M75 antibody was used to discover and identify S the CA IX protein and can be used to identify readily CA IX antigen in Western blots, in radioimmunoassays and immunohistochemically, for example, in tissue samples that are fresh, frozen, or formalin-, alcohol-, acetone- or otherwise fixed and/or paraffin-embedded and deparaffinized. 
 Immunoassay Test Kits The above outlined assays can be embodied in test kits to detect and/or quantitate soluble CA IX antigen. Kits to detect and/or quantitate soluble CA IX antigen can comprise CA IX protein(s)/polypeptides(s). Such diagnostic/prognostic test kits can comprise one or more sets of antibodies, polyclonal and/or monoclonal, for a sandwich format wherein antibodies recognize epitopes on the soluble CA IX antigen, and one set is appropriately labeled or is otherwise detectable. 
 Test kits for an assay format wherein there is competition between a labeled (or otherwise detectable) CA IX protein/polypeptide and CA IX antigen in the sample, for binding to an antibody, can comprise the combination of the labeled protein/polypeptide and the antibody in amounts which provide for optimum sensitivity and accuracy. 
 A kit for use in an enzyme-immunoassay typically includes an enzymelabelled reagent and a substrate for the enzyme. The enzyme can, for example, bind either a CA IX-specific antibody of this invention or to an antibody to such an CA IX-specific antibody. Test kits may comprise other components as necessary, for WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 example, to perform a preferred assay as outlined in Example 8 below. Such test O kits can have other appropriate formats for conventional assays. 
 O 
 SPreparation of CA IX-Specific Antibodies The term "antibodies" is defined herein to include not only whole NC antibodies but also biologically active fragments of antibodies, preferably fragments containing the antigen binding regions. Descriptions of preparing CA IX-specific antibodies such as M75 suitable for use in immunoassays according to this invention have been described (Zavada et al. US Patent No. 5,387,676). Such antibodies may be prepared by conventional methodology and/or by genetic engineering. Antibody fragments may be genetically engineered, preferably from the variable regions of the O light and/or heavy chains (VH and VL), including the hypervariable regions, and still more preferably from both the VH and VL regions. For example, the term "antibodies" as used herein comprehends polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies and biologically active fragments thereof including among other possibilities "univalent" antibodies [Glennie et al., Nature, 295: 712 (1982)]; Fab proteins including Fab' and F(ab') 2 fragments whether covalently or non-covalently aggregated; light or heavy chains alone, preferably variable heavy and light chain regions (VH and VL regions), and more preferably including the hypervariable regions [otherwise known as the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of said VH and VL regions]; Fc proteins; "hybrid" antibodies capable of binding more than one antigen; constant-variable region chimeras; "composite" immunoglobulins with heavy and light chains of different origins; "altered" antibodies with improved specificity and other characteristics as prepared by standard recombinant techniques and also by oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis techniques [Dalbadie-McFarland et al., PNAS (USA), 79: 6409 (1982)]. 
 There are conventional techniques for making polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies well-known in the immunoassay art. Immunogens to prepare CA IX-specific antibodies include CA IX proteins and/or polypeptides, preferably purified, among others. 
 Anti-peptide antibodies are also made by conventional methods in the art as described in European Patent Publication No. 44,710 (published Jan. 27, 1982). Briefly, such anti-peptide antibodies are prepared by selecting a peptide from an CA IX amino acid sequence as from Figure 1, chemically synthesizing it, WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 conjugating it to an appropriate immunogenic protein and injecting it into an 0 appropriate animal, usually a rabbit or a mouse; then, either polyclonal or Ctl monoclonal antibodies are made, the latter by the Kohler-Milstein procedure. 
 dBesides conventional hybridoma technology, newer technologies can be used to produce antibodies according to this invention. For example, the use of C the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to clone and express antibody V-genes and phage display technology to select antibody genes encoding fragments with binding Sactivities has resulted in the isolation of antibody fragments from repertoires of PCR amplified V-genes using immunized mice or humans. [Marks et al., BioTechnoloqy, 10: 779 (1992)]. Descriptions of preparing antibodies by recombinant techniques Scan be found, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567 (issued March 28, 1989). 
 O 
 Preparation of Monoclonal Antibodies Monoclonal antibodies for use in the assays of this invention may be obtained by methods well known in the art. The production of hybridoma which secretes MAb M75 is exemplary and described below. MAb M75 serves to identify CA IX proteins/polypeptides in various laboratory diagnostic tests, for example, in tumor cell cultures or in clinical samples. 
 Monoclonal antibodies specific for this invention can be prepared by immunizing appropriate mammals, preferably rodents, more preferably rabbits or mice, with an appropriate immunogen, for example, CA IX proteins/polypeptides attached to a carrier protein if necessary. 
 One obstacle to overcome in detecting s-CA IX antigen in body fluids was the extremely low concentration of s-CA IX in blood serum and in urine, of the order of 10-100 pg/ml. To detect such an antigen, it is necessary to use two different monoclonal antibodies, directed to non-overlapping epitopes of CA IX. 
 However, until now only one suitable monoclonal antibody, M75, was available for use to detect the CA IX protein. Recently, the inventors overcame this obstacle by using knockout mice with the targeted disruption of Car9 gene to generate a series of monoclonal antibodies specific for various antigenic sites of CA IX protein as described in Example 2. While Mab M75 is specific for the proteoglycan (PG) domain of the CA IX protein, MAb V-10 (one Mab generated by the knockout of Car9) is specific for the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain. By optimizing WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 combinations and dilutions of two monoclonal antibodies, the inventors were able to O obtain extremely sensitive and specific reactions. 
 O 
 C MAb M75. Monoclonal antibody M75 (MAb M75) is produced by Smouse lymphocytic hybridoma VU-M75, which was initially deposited in the Collection of Hybridomas at the Institute of Virology, Slovak Academy of Sciences N (Bratislava, Czechoslovakia) and was deposited under ATCC Designation HB 11128 on September 17, 1992 at the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC). The production of hybridoma VU-M75 is described in Zavada et al., WO 93/18152. 
 Mab M75 recognizes both the nonglycosylated GST-CA IX fusion protein and native CA IX protein as expressed in CGL3 cells equally well. The n MAb recognizes both native and denatured forms of CA IX protein [Pastorekova et O al. (1992)]. 
 The monoclonal antibodies useful according to this invention to identify soluble CA IX proteins/polypeptides can be labeled in any conventional manner, for example, with enzymes such as horseradish peroxidase (HRP), fluorescent compounds, or with radioactive isotopes such as, 1251, among other labels. A preferred label, according to this invention is 1251, and a preferred method of labeling the antibodies is by using chloramine-T [Hunter, "Radioimmunoassay," In: Handbook of Experimental Immunology, pp. 14.1-14.40 Weir ed.; Blackwell, Oxford/London/Edinburgh/Melbourne; 1978)]. Also preferred is the method of labeling the antibodies using peroxidase. 
 Described herein is the soluble form of CA IX protein (s-CA IX) shed by tumor cells in tissue culture, and detected in the urine and serum of cancer patients. 
 The s-CA IX shed from tumor cells into culture medium is somewhat shortened. In one embodiment of the invention, the s-CA IX protein is shortened to 50 and 54 kDa, compared with the cell-associated CA IX protein (p54/58). This size corresponds to extracellular part of CA IX molecule, which is composed of PG (proteoglycan-like) and CA (carbonic anhydrase) domains which have been cleaved off from the remainder of the molecule, the TM (transmembrane segment) and IC (intracellular tail) of CA IX (see Figure The p50/54 form of s-CA IX contains both PG and CA domains, since it reacts with both MAb M75, specific for PG and with MAb specific for the CA domain. 
 The high frequency and marked enhancement of CA IX expression in superficial bladder cancer, combined with the relative absence in normal transitional WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 epithelium, and the fact that CA IX is a transmembrane protein found in tumor patient O urine, suggests that measurement of shed protein in the urine could be a potential C marker of recurrence. 
 dThe s-CA IX could be recombinantly, synthetically or otherwise biologically produced, as for example, by proteolytic cleavage or purification from NC tissue culture medium of an appropriate cell line that expresses MN/CA IX, and could be used therapeutically and/or diagnostically/prognostically. One theory would be Sthat such s-CA IX could be used to sequester the unknown ligand to CA IX, which is considered to activate the signal transduction that results in oncogenic effects. 
 Another therapeutic use for the s-CA IX would be as a vaccine. 
 OTq The s-CA IX could be used diagnostically/prognostically, for example, O to detect MN/CA-IX-specific antibodies in body fluids, or as a calibrator or control in assays to detect comparably sized forms of the naturally occurring s-CA IX in a patient's body fluids. For each of the identified uses, preferably the prepared form of s-CA IX is substantially the CA IX extracellular domain (SEQ ID NO: 5) having a molecular weight of about 50/54 kd. 
 Since CA IX is known to be expressed on the luminal surface of the bladder when bladder cancer is present [Turner et al., Br. J. Cancer, 86: 1276-1282 (2002], and since CA IX is a transmembrane protein, it could be hypothesized that measurement of shed protein in the urine could be a marker of recurrence. Such "shed protein" is now known to be s-CA IX, predominantly as the extracellular domain of CA IX (SEQ ID NO: Coexpression of C-erbB-2 and CA IX Example 11 discloses how CA IX was distributed in normal, benign and malignant breast tissues and compared with expression of breast tumour markers including oestrogen receptor c-erbB2, c-erbB3 and CD44. Tissue specimens were analysed using immunohistochemistry and/or reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). CA IX was detected by IHC in 12/26 malignant tissues, 4/36 benign lesions, but not in 10 normal breasts. Staining was mostly confined to plasma membranes of abnormal epithelial cells, but in five cases was found in adjacent stroma. Semiquantitative RT-PCR detected CA9 mRNA in 25/39 malignant tumours, 11/33 benign lesions, but in none of three normal breasts. Comparative RT-PCR analysis of malignant tissues revealed a WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Srelationship between CA9 positivity and c-erbB2 overexpression (p=0.05). 
 O Moreover, CA9-positive specimens displayed significantly higher median level of ct C erbB2 than CA9-negative ones No significant association was found with the other markers. The results of this study support possible importance of CA IX for breast carcinogenesis and indicate its usefulness as a breast tumour marker and therapeutic target. 
 Disclosed herein is the significant association of the ectopic expression 0 of CA IX and the overexpression of HER-2/neu/c-erbB-2. Some of the features associated with high HER-2/neu/c-erbB-2 expression, such as invasion and S 10 metastatic capability, may also be mediated by coexpression of CA IX. 
 0 A significant proportion of Her-2/neu/c-erbB-2-positive cancers do not 0 respond to treatment by herceptin, a humanized monoclonal antibody against Her- 2/neu/c-erbB-2 [Kuter, I. 2001]. Inhibitors of the coexpressed CA IX could provide alternative therapeutic approaches. Such inhibitors include, for example, polyclonal and/or monoclonal antibodies, including immunoreactive fragments, and mono- or bispecific variants, and related anti-anti-idiotype antibodies. Each of those antibody variants and fragments thereof can be used alone and/or conjugated to cytotoxic agents. [See, for example, Zavada et al., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,955,075 (Sept. 21, 1999) and 6,051,226 (April 18, 2000), and Zavada et al. EP 0 637 836 B1 (July 7, 1999).] Another class of CA IX inhibitors are the carbonic anhydrase (CA) inhibitors. [See, for example, Chegwidden et al. (2000); Hockel and Vaupel (2001) (April 2001) (Feb. 21, 2001); Supuran and Scozzfava (2002); Teicher et al. (1993) and Maren, T.H. (1995).] Inhibition of CA activity has been shown to reduce invasion of some tumor cell lines [Parkkila et al. (2000)], and CA inhibitor treatment may be beneficial as an adjunct to cancer chemotherapy, synergizing with chremotherapeutic agents in animal models. [Teicher (1993); Parkkila (2000)]. CA inhibitors, acetozolamide or sulfonamides, have been shown to reduce tumor invasiveness or block turmor growth, respectively [Parkkila et al. (2000); Supuran et al., (2001)]. Further, CA isoenzyme antagonism has been observed to augment the cytotoxic effects of various chemotherapeutic agents, including platinum based drugs [Teicher et al. (1993)]. 
 The classic, clinically important CA inhibitors are aromatic/heterocyclic sulfonamides. Exemplary are acetazalamide, methazolamide, ethoxzolamide, S dichlorophenamide, dorzolamide and brinzolamide. A large number of derivatives to enhance desired pharmacological/physicochemical prospective such as water S solubility are new being developed [Supuran and Scozzafava (2002)]. 
 i Hypoxia and Therapy Tumor hypoxia occurs as a consequence of an inadequate supply of blood borne oxygen due to the disorganized and chaotic vascular network that develops in tumors [Hockel and Vaupel (2001)]. Tumor hypoxia has been S considered to present a therapeutic problem since hypoxic cells are radiation c resistant [Gray et al. (1953); Hall, E.J. (1988)], and recent measurements of tumor oxygenation in the clinic have shown clear correlations with outcome of radiotherapy [Hickel et al. (1993); Nordsmark et al. (1996); Brizel et al. (1997); Fyles et al. (1998); Sundfor et al. (2000)]. The role of tumor hypoxia for the outcome of chemotherapy is less clear, but there are a number of reasons why hypoxia may be important. For Sexample, drugs like bleomycin have an obligate requirement for oxygen in order to be toxic. Chronically hypoxic cells tend to be out of cycle and resistant to cell cycle phase specific drugs. Finally, since hypoxic cells lie far from a functional vascular capillary, many chemotherapeutic drugs find it extremely difficult to diffuse that distance in sufficient concentrations to be toxic [Jain et al. (2000)]. 
 Clinical observations have suggested hypoxia can cause cellular changes that result in a more aggressive phenotype [Hockel and Vaupel (2001)]. 
 Such hypoxia-related malignant progression may result in increased potential for local invasiveness and metastatic spread [Brizel et al. (1996), Hockel et al. (1996) Sundfor et al. (1998)]. Results from experimental systems support the notion that these changes are indeed hypoxia-mediated [Young et al. (1988), Graeber et al. 
 (1996)]. 
 There is a need to identify those patients most likely to respond to adjuvant therapy directed towards hypoxic cells. Such therapeutic approaches could include methods to improve tumour oxygenation such as Carbogen [Powell et al. 
 (1997)], the use of bioreductive drugs [Stratford and Workman (1998)] or hypoxiamediated gene therapy approaches [Dachs et al. (1997)]. Currently, the method that has received most widespread use to measure tumour oxygenation is the Eppendorf polarographic oxygen electrode [Kallinowski et al. (1990)]. However, it has limited use in that it is invasive and can only be used on relatively superficial tumours. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Nevertheless, this method of pO2 measurement has generated many clinical O therapeutic correlations and any subsequent methods of hypoxia measurement must 
 O 
 C be compared to it. 
 Bioreductive drug markers provide an alternative approach for S 5 assessing the level and extent of tumor hypoxia. This was first articulated by Cl Chapman and colleagues [see Chapman (1991) for review] who used the 2nitroimidazole, misonidazole. Related compounds such as pimonidazole [Raleigh et O al. (1998)], EF-5 [Koch et al. (1995)], NITP [Hodgkiss et al. (1997)] and SR4554 
 O 
 [Aboagye et al. (1998)] have subsequently been developed. They are all structurally similar and will identify intracellular levels of oxygenation at which it is known that c cells will be resistant to radiation [see Evans et al. (1996)]. Pimonidazole is at 
 O 
 O the most advanced stage of clinical evaluation [Kennedy et al. (1997); Varia et al. 
 (1998)] and recently a clinical comparative study has been made between Eppendorf measurements of p 0 2 and the extent of pimonidazole adduct formation in carcinoma of the cervix [Nordsmark et al. (2001)]. In this latter study, there was a trend for tumors with relatively high pO2 readings to show lower pimonidazole binding, however, there was no significant correlation seen between these two assays of hypoxia. 
 Another method to assess the presence of hypoxia in human tumors is to take advantage of the phenomenon of hypoxia-mediated gene expression. Up regulation of a variety of genes in hypoxia is mediated by activation of the transcription factor HIF-1 (hypoxia-inducible factor-1). The HIF-1 protein is stabilized under hypoxic conditions and binds to genetic enhancer sequences (HREs, hypoxia responsive elements) that exist in the promotor regions of genes including erythropoetin [Maxwell et al. (1993)], VEGF [Forsythe et al. (1996)], GLUT-1 [Ebert et al. (1995)] and CA IX [Wycoff et al. (2000)]. The expression of these genes in human tumours could potentially be determined at the time of tumour biopsy and thus provide an inexpensive, minimally invasive means of measuring tumour hypoxia. If validated, this approach could facilitate the rational selection of patients into various treatment arms of clinical trials and allow appropriate application of therapeutic strategies directed towards hypoxic cells. 
 Recently the expression of GLUT-1 (glucose transporter-1) and CA IX (carbonic anhydrase IX) has been measured in carcinoma of the cervix and correlated with Eppendorf measurements of p 0 2 and these immunohistochemical S measurements have in turn also been related to therapeutic outcome [Airley et al. 
 (2001); Loncster et al. (2001)]. A study was done as reported in Airley et al. (2002) to relate the expression of the hypoxia-regulated genes GLUT-1 and CA9 to the S presence of bound pimondazole adducts in carcinoma of the cervix. 
 SCA IX, which, along with CA XII, was initially characterised as a hypoxia-inducible gene due to its overexpression in VHL defective cell lines, catalyses the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide to carbonic acid, providing a S means of regulating pH in tumours [Wykoff et al. (2000)]. CA IX may therefore work S to help counteract the intracellular acidic conditions found in oxygen deprived regions of tumours. These acidic conditions being promoted, to some extent, by the 0 hypoxia-mediated over-expression of Glut-1, in turn allows increased anaerobic glycolysis. The initial validation of CA IX as a marker of hypoxia in advanced carcinoma of the cervix [Loncaster et al. (2001)] has been accompanied by a range of studies which relate the presence of this enzyme to poor outcome in breast [Chia i et al. (2001)], non-small cell lung [Giatromanolaki et al. (2001) and head and neck cancers [Koukourakis et al. (2001)]. 
 The Airley et al. (2002) study concluded that further evidence was provided that hypoxia-regulated membrane proteins such as Glut-1 and CA IX may be used clinically to infer the presence of hypoxia in tumors, which allow the rational use of new modalities, such as bioreductive chemotherapy and/or hypoxia-regulated gene therapy. 
 Airley et al., Brit. J. Cancer, 86 (Suppl. S13-S33 (2002) states: "Hypoxic cells are known to be radioresistant and chemoresistant, thus, a reliable surrogate marker of hypoxia is desirable to ensure that treatment with radiotherapy or hypoxia-directed therapies, such as the use of bioreductive drugs, may be rationally applied. Recently, the HIF-1-regulated proteins Glut-1 and CA IX were validated as intrinsic markers of hypoxia by comparison with p02 measured using the Eppendorf oxygen electrode, which is believed to measure both acute and chronic hypoxia." Swinson et al., Br. J. Cancer, 86 (Supp. S13 (2002) states: "The presence of activated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and HER2 reception has been postulated to augment the cellular hypoxic response by increasing synthesis and enhancing the transcriptional activity of HIF-1 [citing to Laughner et al. The HIF-1 transcription factor upregulates CA IX and other enzymes WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 involved in cellular pH homeostatis, as well as vascular endothelial growth factor O (VEGF) and enzymes involved in anaerobic metabolism such as glucose transporter- 
 O 
 tC 1. 
 Swinson et al., J. Clin. Oncol., 21(3): 473-82 (Feb. 1, 2003) evaluated CA IX as a hypoxia marker and its prognostic significance in non-small cEll lung cancer (NSCLC). Standard immunohistochemical (IHC) techniques with the mab were used to study tumor sections from 175 resected NSCLC cases. 
 Membranous CA IX (P=0.005), cytoplasmic (p 0.018) and stromal CA IX (p 0 0.001) expression corelated with the extent of tumor necrosis Perinuclear (p) CA IX (p 0.035) was associated with poor prognosis. Swinson et al. concluded mC that mCA IX is a marker of tumor cell hypoxia, and that pCA IX is representative of 
 O 
 O an aggressive phenotype. The absence of CA IX staining close to microvessels indicates that the tissues are relatively well oxygenated. 
 Vaupel and Hoeckel, "Predictive power of the tumor oxygenation status," Advances in Experimental Medicine and Biology, 471: 533-539 (2000) point out that tumor hypoxia not only indicates decreased radiocurability but is generally associated with malignant progression of disease. So far data indicate that tumor hypoxia and clinical aggressiveness in terms of resistance to therapy and tumor dissemination are interrelated. 
 Anticancer Drugs and Antibodies that Block Interaction of MN Protein and Receptor Molecules MN protein is considered to be a uniquely suitable target for cancer therapy for a number of reasons including the following. It is localized on the cell surface, rendering it accessible. It is expressed in a high percentage of human carcinomas uterine cervical, renal, colon, breast, esophageal, lung, head and neck carcinomas, among others), but is not normally expressed to any significant extent in the normal tissues from which such carcinomas originate. 
 It is normally expressed only in the stomach mucosa and in some epithelia of the digestive tract (epithelium of gallbladder and small intestine). An anatomic barrier thereby exists between the MN-expressing preneoplastic/neoplastic and MN-expressing normal tissues. Drugs, including antibodies, can thus be WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 administered which can reach tumors without interfering with MN-expressing normal O tissues. 
 0 NC MAb M75 has a high affinity and specificity to MN protein. MN cDNA and MN genomic clones which encompass the protein-coding and gene S 5 regulatory sequences have been isolated. MN-specific antibodies have been shown to have among the highest tumor uptakes reported in clinical studies with antitumor antibodies in solid tumors, as shown for the MN-specific chimeric antibody G250 in animal studies and in phase I clinical trials with renal carcinoma patients. 
 O [Steffens et al., J. Clin. Oncol., 15: 1529 (1997).] Also, MN-specific antibodies have low uptake in normal tissues. 
 Cl c h Data as presented in Zavada et al., WO 00/24913 are consistent with 
 O 
 O the following theory concerning how MN protein acts in normal tissues and in preneoplastic/neoplastic tissues. In normal tissues in stomach mucosa), MN protein is considered to be a differentiation factor. It binds with its normal receptor S (for stomach). Stomach carcinomas have been shown not to contain MN protein. 
 Ectopic expression of MN protein in other tissues causes malignant conversion of cells. Such ectopic expression is considered to be caused by the binding of MN protein with an alternative receptor H (for HeLa cells), coupled to a signal transduction pathway leading to malignancy. Drugs or antibodies which block the binding site of MN protein for receptor H would be expected to cause reversion of prenoplastic/neoplastic cells to normal or induce their death. 
 Design and Development of MN-Blocking Drugs or Antibodies A process to design and develop MN-blocking drugs, peptides with high affinity to MN protein, or antibodies, has several steps. First, is to test for the binding of MN protein to receptors based on the cell adhesion assay as described in Zavada et al., WO 00/24913. That same procedure would also be used to assay for drugs blocking the MN protein binding site. In view of the alternative receptors S and H, stomach epithelial cells or revertants (containing preferentially S receptors), HeLa cells (containing the H receptor and lacking the S receptor) would be used in the cell adhesion assay. 
 To identify the receptor binding site of MN protein, deletion variants of MN protein lacking different domains can be used to identify region(s) responsible for interaction of MN protein with a receptor. A preferred MN binding site is considered WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 to be closely related or identical to the epitope for MAb M75, as the amino acid O sequence PGEEDLP (SEQ ID NO: 11) which is 4X identically repeated in the N- 
 O 
 Cl terminal PG region of CA IX, or at least closely related copies within the 6-fold Standem repeat of 6 amino acids (aa) of aa 61-96 (SEQ ID NO: 12) as shown in Figue 1A-1 C in the proteoglycan-like domain of the MN protein. Smaller deletion l variants can be prepared within that relevant domain, fusion proteins with only small segments of MN protein can be prepared. Also, controlled digestion of MN protein with specific proteases followed by separation of the products can be performed. 
 Further, peptides comprising the expected binding site can be 0 synthesized. All of those products can be tested in cell adhesion assays, as O exemplified below. [See, Pierschbacher and Ruoslahti, PNAS, 81:5985 (1984); Ruoslahti and Pierschbacher, Science, 238: 491.] Molecules can be constructed to block the MN receptor binding site. 
 For example, use of a phage display peptide library kit [as Ph.D-7 Peptide 7-Mer Library Kit from New England Biolabs; Beverly, MA (USA)] as exemplified in Examples 2 and 3 of Zavada et al. WO 00/24913, can be used to find peptides with high affinity to the target molecules. Biologic activity of the identified peptides will be tested in vitro by inhibition of cell adhesion to MN protein, by effects on cell morphology and growth characteristics of MN-related tumor cells (HeLa) and of control cells. [Symington, J. Biol. Chem., 267: 25744 (1992).] In vivo screening will be carried out in nude mice that have been injected with HeLa cells. 
 Peptides containing the binding site of the MN protein will be prepared MAPs (multiple antigen peptides); Tam, PNAS (USA) 85: 5409 (1988); Butz et al., Peptide Res., 7: 20 (1994)]. The MAPs will be used to immunize animals to obtain antibodies (polyclonal and/or monoclonal) that recognize and block the binding site. [See, Brooks et al., Cell, 79: 1157 (1994).] "Vaccination" would then be used to test for protection in animals. Antibodies to the MN binding site could potentially be used to block MN protein's interaction(s) with other molecules. 
 Computer modeling can also be used to design molecules with specific affinity to MN protein that would mediate steric inhibition between MN protein and its receptor. A computer model of the MN binding site for the receptor will contain spatial, electrostatic, hydrophobic and other characteristics of this structure. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Organic molecules complementary to the structure, that best fit into the binding site, O will be designed. Inorganic molecules can also be similarly tested that could block 
 O 
 Nl the MN binding site. 
 The use of oncoproteins as targets for developing new cancer S 5 therapeutics is considered conventional by those of skill in the art. [See, e.g., Mendelsohn and Lippman, "Growth Factors," pp. 114-133, IN: DeVita et al. (eds.), Cancer: Principles and Practice of Oncology 4 th Ed.; Lippincott; Philadelphia, 1993).] SIn its broadest sense, the design of blocking drugs can be based in competitive inhibition experiments. Such experiments have been used to invent drugs since the discovery of sulfonamides (competitive inhibitors of para-aminobenzoic acid, a c precursor of folic acid). Also, some cytostatics are competitive inhibitors  
 O 
 O halogenated pyrimidines, among others). 
 However, the application of such approaches to MN is new. In comparison to other tumor-related molecules growth factors and their receptors), MN has the unique property of being differentially expressed in preneoplastic/neoplastic and normal tissues, which are separated by an anatomic barrier. 
 Other CA IX Detection Methods Diagnostic nucleic acid can be labelled, directly or indirectly, by methods known in the art, and can be used in conventional Southern or Northern hybridization assays. Such assays can be employed in identifying transformants or for in vitro diagnosis, such as to detect MN mRNA in tissues as a measure of oncogenic activity. The presence of MN mRNA or precursors thereto for most tissues being indicative of oncogenic activity, whereas the absence or a reduced level of MN mRNA in stomach and gallbladder tissues in comparison to the levels of mRNA found in the counterpart normal tissues is considered indicative of oncogenic activity. DNA which encodes MN proteins can be obtained by chemical synthesis, by screening reverse transcripts of mRNA from placental or other cells, or by screening genomic libraries from eukaryotic cells, among other methods. 
 MN-specific antibodies can be bound by serologically active MN proteins/polypeptides in samples of such body fluids as blood, plasma, serum, lymph, mucous, tears, urine, spinal fluid and saliva; however, such antibodies are found most usually in blood, plasma and serum, preferably in serum. Correlation of WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 the results from the assays to detect and/or quantitate MN antigen and MN-specific O antibodies reactive therewith, provides a preferred profile of the disease condition of 
 O 
 Cl a patient. 
 The presence of MN antigen or antibodies can be detected and/or quantitated using a number of well-defined diagnostic assays. Those in the art can C adapt any of the conventional immunoassay formats to detect and/or quantitate MN antigen and/or antibodies. 
 Many formats for detection of MN antigen and MN-specific antibodies O are, of course available. Those can be Western blots, ELISAs, RIAs, competitive EIA or dual antibody sandwich assays, immunohistochemical staining, among other c assays all commonly used in the diagnostic industry. In such immunoassays, the 
 O 
 O interpretation of the results is based on the assumption that the antibody or antibody combination will not cross-react with other proteins and protein fragments present in the sample that are unrelated to MN. 
 Representative of one type of ELISA test for MN antigen is a format wherein a microtiter plate is coated with antibodies made to MN proteins/polypeptides or antibodies made to whole cells expressing MN proteins, and to this is added a patient sample, for example, a tissue or cell extract. After a period of incubation permitting any antigen to bind to the antibodies, the plate is washed and another set of anti-MN antibodies which are linked to an enzyme is added, incubated to allow reaction to take place, and the plate is then rewashed. 
 Thereafter, enzyme substrate is added to the microtiter plate and incubated for a period of time to allow the enzyme to work on the substrate, and the adsorbance of the final preparation is measured. A large change in absorbance indicates a positive result. 
 It is also apparent to one skilled in the art of immunoassays that MN proteins and/or polypeptides can be used to detect and/or quantitate the presence of MN antigen in the body fluids, tissues and/or cells of patients. In one such embodiment, a competition immunoassay is used, wherein the MN protein/polypeptide is labeled and a body fluid is added to compete the binding of the labeled MN protein/polypeptide to antibodies specific to MN protein/polypeptide. 
 In another embodiment, an immunometric assay may be used wherein a labeled antibody made to a MN protein or polypeptide is used. In such an assay, WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M the amount of labeled antibody which complexes with the antigen-bound antibody is O directly proportional to the amount of MN antigen in the sample. 
 O 
 N A representative assay to detect MN-specific antibodies is a competition assay in which labeled MN protein/polypeptide is precipitated by antibodies in a sample, for example, in combination with monoclonal antibodies l recognizing MN proteins/polypeptides. One skilled in the art could adapt any of the conventional immunoassay formats to detect and/or quantitate MN-specific antibodies. Detection of the binding of said antibodies to said MN C protein/polypeptide could be by many ways known to those in the art, in S 10 humans with the use of anti-human labeled IgG. 
 qnt An exemplary immunoassay method of this invention to detect and/or 
 O 
 O quantitate MN antigen in a vertebrate sample comprises the steps of: a) incubating said vertebrate sample with one or more sets of antibodies (an antibody or antibodies) that bind to MN antigen wherein one set is labeled or otherwise detectable; b) examining the incubated sample for the presence of immune complexes comprising MN antigen and said antibodies. 
 Another exemplary immunoassay method according to this invention is that wherein a competition immunoassay is used to detect and/or quantitate MN antigen in a vertebrate sample and wherein said method comprises the steps of: a) incubating a vertebrate sample with one or more sets of MN-specific antibodies and a certain amount of a labeled or otherwise detectable MN protein/polypeptide wherein said MN protein/ polypeptide competes for binding to said antibodies with MN antigen present in the sample; b) examining the incubated sample to determine the amount of labeled/detectable MN protein/polypeptide bound to said antibodies; and c) determining from the results of the examination in step b) whether MN antigen is present in said sample and/or the amount of MN antigen present in said sample. 
 Once antibodies (including biologically active antibody fragments) having suitable specificity have been prepared, a wide variety of immunological assay methods are available for determining the formation of specific antibody-antigen complexes. Numerous competitive and non-competitive protein binding assays have been described in the scientific and patent literature, and a WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M^ large number of such assays are commercially available. Exemplary immunoassays 0 which are suitable for detecting a serum antigen include those described in U.S. 
 O 
 Patent Nos. 3,984,533; 3,996,345; 4,034,074; and 4,098,876. 
 SAntibodies employed in assays may be labeled or unlabeled. 
 Unlabeled antibodies may be employed in agglutination; labeled antibodies may be NC employed in a wide variety of assays, employing a wide variety of labels. 
 Suitable detection means include the use of labels such as O radionuclides, enzymes, coenzymes, fluorescers, chemiluminescers, chromogens, O enzyme substrates or co-factors, enzyme inhibitors, free radicals, particles, dyes and S 10 the like. Such labeled reagents may be used in a variety of well known assays, such c as radioimmunoassays, enzyme immunoassays, ELISA, fluorescent O immunoassays, and the like. See for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,766,162; 3,791,932; 3,817,837; and 4,233,402. 
 Immunoassay Test Kits The above outlined assays can be embodied in test kits to detect and/or quantitate MN antigen and/or MN-specific antibodies (including biologically active antibody fragments). Kits to detect and/or quantitate MN antigen can comprise MN protein(s)/polypeptides(s) and/or MN-specific antibodies, polyclonal and/or monoclonal. Such diagnostic/prognostic test kits can comprise one or more sets of antibodies, polyclonal and/or monoclonal, for a sandwich format wherein antibodies recognize epitopes on the MN antigen, and one set is appropriately labeled or is otherwise detectable. 
 Test kits for an assay format wherein there is competition between a labeled (or otherwise detectable) MN protein/polypeptide and MN antigen in the sample, for binding to an antibody, can comprise the combination of the labeled protein/polypeptide and the antibody in amounts which provide for optimum sensitivity and accuracy. 
 Test kits for MN-specific antibodies preferably comprise labeled/detectable MN proteins(s) and/or polypeptides(s), and may comprise other components as necessary, such as, controls, buffers, diluents and detergents. Such test kits can have other appropriate formats for conventional assays. 
 A kit for use in an enzyme-immunoassay typically includes an enzymelabelled reagent and a substrate for the enzyme. The enzyme can, for example, WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Sbind either an MN-specific antibody of this invention or to an antibody to such an O MN-specific antibody. 
 CO 
 d Preparation of MN-Specific Antibodies The term "antibodies" is defined herein to include not only whole l antibodies but also biologically active fragments of antibodies, preferably fragments containing the antigen binding regions. Further included in the definition of Q antibodies are bispecific antibodies that are specific for MN protein and to another tissue-specific antigen. 
 Antibodies of the invention may be prepared by conventional methodology and/or by genetic engineering. Chimeric antibodies that are O humanized to reduce antigenicity are preferred for in vivo use. Antibody fragments may be genetically engineered, preferably from the variable regions of the light and/or heavy chains (VH and VL), including the hypervariable regions, and still more preferably from both the VH and VL regions. For example, the term "antibodies" as used herein comprehends polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies and biologically active fragments thereof including among other possibilities "univalent" antibodies [Glennie et al., Nature, 295: 712 (1982)]; Fab proteins including Fab' and F(ab') 2 fragments whether covalently or non-covalently aggregated; light or heavy chains alone, preferably variable heavy and light chain regions (VH and VL regions), and more preferably including the hypervariable regions [otherwise known as the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of said VH and VL regions]; F proteins; "hybrid" antibodies capable of binding more than one antigen; constant-variable region chimeras; "composite" immunoglobulins with heavy and light chains of different origins; "altered" antibodies with improved specificity and other characteristics as prepared by standard recombinant techniques and also by oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis techniques [Dalbadie-McFarland et al., PNAS (USA), 79: 6409 (1982)]. 
 Bispecific Antibodies. Bispecific antibodies can be produced by chemically coupling two antibodies of the desired specificity. Bispecific MAbs can preferably be developed by somatic hybridization of 2 hybridomas. Bispecific MAbs for targeting MN protein and another antigen can be produced by fusing a hybridoma that produces MN-specific MAbs with a hybridoma producing MAbs specific to another antigen. For example, a cell (a quadroma), formed by fusion of a hybridoma WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 procucing a MN-specmc MAD and a hybridoma producing an anti-cytotoxic cell O antibody, will produce hybrid antibody having specificity of the parent antibodies. 
 O 
 [See, Immunol. Rev. (1979); Cold Spring Harbor Symposium Quant. Biol., 41: 793 (1977); van Dijk et al., Int. J. Cancer. 43: 344-349 (1989).] Thus, a hybridoma S 5 producing a MN-specific MAb can be fused with a hybridoma producing, for example, an anti-T3 antibody to yield a cell line which produces a MN/T3 bispecific antibody which can target cytotoxic T cells to MN-expressing tumor cells. 
 SIt may be preferred for therapeutic and/or imaging uses that the 
 O 
 LO antibodies be biologically active antibody fragments, preferably genetically engineered fragments, more preferably genetically engineered fragments from the n VH and/or VL regions, and still more preferably comprising the hypervariable regions 
 O 
 0 thereof. However, for some therapeutic uses bispecific antibodies targeting MN Ctl protein and cytotoxic cells would be preferred. 
 There are conventional techniques for making polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies well-known in the immunoassay art. Immunogens to prepare MN-specific antibodies include MN proteins and/or polypeptides, preferably purified, and MX-infected tumor line cells, for example, MX-infected HeLa cells, among other immunogens. 
 Anti-peptide antibodies are also made by conventional methods in the art as described in European Patent Publication No. 44,710 (published Jan. 27, 1982). Briefly, such anti-peptide antibodies are prepared by selecting a peptide from an MN amino acid sequence as from Figure 1, chemically synthesizing it, conjugating it to an appropriate immunogenic protein and injecting it into an appropriate animal, usually a rabbit or a mouse; then, either polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies are made, the latter by a Kohler-Milstein procedure, for example. 
 Besides conventional hybridoma technology, newer technologies can be used to produce antibodies according to this invention. For example, the use of the PCR to clone and express antibody V-genes and phage display technology to select antibody genes encoding fragments with binding activities has resulted in the isolation of antibody fragments from repertoires of PCR amplified V-genes using immunized mice or humans. [Marks et al., BioTechnology, 10: 779 (July 1992) for references; Chiang et al., BioTechniques, 360 (1989); Ward et al., Nature, 341: 544 (Oct. 12, 1989); Marks et al., J. Mol. Biol., 222: 581 (1991); Clackson et al., WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 m Nature, 352: (15 August 1991); and Mullinax et al., PNAS (USA), 87: 8095 (Oct. 
 O 
 O 1990).] Descriptions of preparing antibodies, which term is herein defined to Sinclude biologically active antibody fragments, by recombinant techniques can be found in U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567 (issued March 28, 1989); European Patent cl Application Publication Number (EP) 338,745 (published Oct. 25, 1989); EP 368,684 (published June 16, 1990); EP 239,400 (published September 30, 1987); WO O 90/14424 (published Nov. 29, 1990); WO 90/14430 (published May 16, 1990); Huse 
 LO 
 et al., Science, 246: 1275 (Dec. 8, 1989); Marks et al., BioTechnoloqv, 10: 779 cN 10 (July 1992); La Sastry et al., PNAS (USA), 86: 5728 (August 1989); Chiang et al., O BioTechniques, 7(40): 360 (1989); Orlandi et al., PNAS (USA), 86: 3833 (May 
 O 
 NC 1989); Ward et al. Nature, 341: 544 (October 12, 1989); Marks et al., J. Mol. Biol., 222: 581 (1991); and Hoogenboom et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 19(15): 4133 (1991). 
 Representative Mabs Monoclonal antibodies for use in the assays of this invention may be obtained by methods well known in the art for example, Galfre and Milstein, "Preparation of Monoclonal Antibodies: Strategies and Procedures," in Methods in Enzvmoloqv: Immunochemical Techniques, 73: 1-46 [Langone and Vanatis (eds); Academic Press (1981)]; and in the classic reference, Milstein and Kohler, Nature, 256: 495-497 (1975).] Although representative hybridomas of this invention are formed by the fusion of murine cell lines, human/human hybridomas [Olsson et al., PNAS (USA), 77: 5429 (1980)] and human/murine hybridomas [Schlom et al., PNAS (USA), 77: 6841 (1980); Shearman et al. J. Immunol., 146: 928-935 (1991); and Gorman et al., PNAS (USA), 88: 4181-4185 (1991)] can also be prepared among other possibilities. Such humanized monoclonal antibodies would be preferred monoclonal antibodies for therapeutic and imaging uses. 
 Monoclonal antibodies specific for this invention can be prepared by immunizing appropriate mammals, preferably rodents, more preferably rabbits or mice, with an appropriate immunogen, for example, MaTu-infected HeLa cells, MN fusion proteins, or MN proteins/polypeptides attached to a carrier protein if necessary. Exemplary methods of producing antibodies of this invention are described below. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M The monoclonal antibodies useful according to this invention to identify 0 MN proteins/polypeptides can be labeled in any conventional manner, for example, t C with enzymes such as horseradish peroxidase (HRP), fluorescent compounds, or with radioactive isotopes such as, 1251, among other labels. A preferred label, according to this invention is 1251, and a preferred method of labeling the antibodies is by using chloramine-T [Hunter, "Radioimmunoassay," In: Handbook of Experimental Immunology, pp. 14.1-14.40 Weir ed.; Blackwell, O Oxford/London/Edinburgh/ Melbourne; 1978)]. 
 R Representative mabs of this invention include Mabs M75, MN9, MN12 F3 10 and MN7 described below. Monoclonal antibodies of this invention serve to identify O MN proteins/polypeptides in various laboratory diagnostic tests, for example, in 0 tumor cell cultures or in clinical samples. 
 Epitopes The affinity of a MAb to peptides containing an epitope depends on the context, e.g. on whether the peptide is a short sequence (4-6 aa), or whether such a short peptide is flanked by longer aa sequences on one or both sides, or whether in testing for an epitope, the peptides are in solution or immobilized on a surface. 
 Therefore, it would be expected by ones of skill in the art that the representative epitopes described herein for the MN-specific MAbs would vary in the context of the use of those MAbs. 
 Epitope Mapping Epitope mapping was performed by the Novatope system, a kit for which is commercially available from Novagen, Inc. [See, for analogous example, Li et al., Nature, 363: 85-88 (6 May 1993).] In brief, the MN cDNA was cut into overlapping short fragments of approximately 60 base pairs. The fragments were expressed in E. coli, and the E. coll colonies were transferred onto nitrocellulose paper, lysed and probed with the mab of interest. The MN cDNA of clones reactive with the mab of interest was sequenced, and the epitopes of the mabs were deduced from the overlapping polypeptides found to be reactive with each mab. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M Therapeutic Use of MN-Specific Antibodies O The MN-specific antibodies of this invention, monoclonal and/or polyclonal, preferably monoclonal, and as outlined above, may be used Stherapeutically in the treatment of neoplastic and/or pre-neoplastic disease, either alone or in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs or toxic agents, such as ricin A. 
 C Further preferred for therapeutic use would be biologically active antibody fragments as described herein. Also preferred MN-specific antibodies for such therapeutic O uses would be humanized monoclonal antibodies and/or bispecific antibodies. 
 IC MN-specific antibodies can be administered in a therapeutically S 10 effective amount, preferably dispersed in a physiologically acceptable, nontoxic liquid vehicle, to patients afflicted with preneoplastic/neoplastic disease. The MN-specific C antibody can be given alone or as a carrier of an anti-tumor drug. Among the various antiproliferative, antineoplastic or cytotoxic agents that may be linked to the MN-specific antibodies are antimetabolites, such as the antifolate, methotrexate, or the purine or pyrimidine analogs mercaptopurine and fluorouracil. Others include antibiotics, lectins such as ricin and abrin, toxins such as the subunit of diphtheria toxin, radionuclides such as 211Astatine and 131 lodine, radiosensitizers such as misanidazole or neutron sensitizers such as boron containing organics. Such agents may be attached to the antibody by conventional techniques such as glutaraldehyde cross-linking. 
 MN-specific antibodies can be used to target cytoxic cells human T cells, monocytes or NK cells). Cytotoxic cells can be attached to MN-expressing tumor cells through Fc receptors on the cytotoxic cells, which bind the Fc portion of a MN-specific antibody, or via a bridging antibody of dual specificity, that is, a bispecific antibody specific for MN protein and for the cytotoxic cell. 
 The cytotoxic cell can be targeted by allowing the bispecific antibody to bind the cell. After targeting, the cells can be administered to the patient. Therapy with targeted cells can be used as an adjunct to surgical therapy, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy. 
 Anti-ldiotype MN-Specific Antibodies as Tumor Vaccines and Anti-Anti-ldiotype Antibody Sera as Immunotherapeutic MN-specific anti-idiotype antibodies have therapeutic utility as a vaccine for neoplastic disease associated with abnormal MN expression. MN- WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Sspecific anti-anti-idiotype sera also have therapeutic anti-tumor efficacy. Those 0 therapeutic utilities are demonstrated by research done with the MN-specific G250 
 O 
 MAb, and anti-idiotype antibodies thereto (Ab2), and further anti-anti-idiotype sera S(Ab3) as demonstrated by the studies described below. 
 Uemura et al., Biotherapy (Japan) 10(3): 241-244 (1996) (English Csummary) define an anti-idiotype antibody (Ab2) as "an antibody directed against an antigenic determinant located within a variable region of the immunoglobulin 0 molecule. Ab2 mimicking the normal antigen (so-called internal image Ab2) may be used as a surrogate antigen for vaccination to trigger the host's immune system S 10 specifically against the nominal antigen." SUemura et al., id., having previously isolated six internal image murine 
 O 
 0 Ab2s directed against the G250 MAb NUH31, 51, 71, 82 (IgG1) and NUH44 (lgG2a), explores the application of monoclonal Ab2 as tumor vaccines. Uemura et al. investigated in view of "previous results that RCC tumor-associated-antigenrelated idiotype vaccination induced antigen-specific humoral as well as cellular responses, the antitumor efficacy of anti-anti-idiotype antibody (Ab3) sera obtained from mice immunized with different internal image Ab2 that.. mimic the RCCassociated antigen G250 [MN] Nu/nu BALB/c mice carrying small established NU12 human RCC xenografts (G250+, 20 mm 3 rr receiving an s.c. 
 injection of 2 x 105 SK-RC-52 (G250+) RCC cells were treated by i.p. injection of 0.2 ml Ab3 sera. This treatment resulted in complete tumor rejection and significant tumor growth inhibition as compared to control groups Uemura et al. 
 concluded that "immunization with Ab2s elicits powerful anti-tumor effects in immunocompetent animals." Uemura et al., J. Urol., 159(5)(Suppl.): Abstract 724 (May 1998), describe MN as an immunotherapeutic target for renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The therapeutic potential of the MN-specific MAb G250 was evaluated in combination with IFN/IL-2/MCSF (interferon, interleukin-2, macrophage colony stimulating factor) and Ab2 (NUH82)-induced mouse serum (Ab3-82). Ab2s are monoclonal antiidiotype antibodies raised against MAbG250 which have been shown to be useful as tumor vaccines for RCC. 
 Uemura et al., id. reported that mice with NUR-2 RCC xenografts were treated by peri-tumor injection of MAbG250 and/or cytokines or 0.2 ml of Ab3 sera with/without MCSF. The tumor volume in MAbG250 treated animals was WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 pp significantly lower than in the controls. IFN or IL-2 treatmenrts was similarly effebtifie, O but MCSF resulted in no significant tumor inhibition. The IFN/IL-2/MAbG250 therapy 
 O 
 increased significantly the anti-tumor effects as compared to MAbG250 or cytokine dmonotherapy. Further, Ab3-based (Ab2-induced) immunotherapy resulted in tremendous tumor monotherapy growth inhibition as compared to MAbG250 or the other cytokine combination therapies. 
 O MN-Specific Intrabodies Targeted Tumor Killing Via Intracellular SExpression of MN-Specific Antibodies to Block Transport of MN Protein to Cell Surface 
 O 
 0 The gene encoding antibodies can be manipulated so that the antigenbinding domain can be expressed intracellularly. Such "intrabodies" that are targeted to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum provide a simple and effective mechanism for inhibiting the transport of plasma membrane proteins to the cell surface. [Marasco, "Review Intrabodies: turning the humoral immune system outside in or intracellular immunization," Gene Therapy, 4:11-15 (1997); Chen et al., "Intracellular antibodies as a new class of therapeutic molecules for gene therapy," Hum. Gene Ther., 595-601 (1994); Mhashilkar et al., EMBO 14: 1542-1551 (1995); Mhashilkar et al., J. Virol., 71: 6486-6494 (1997); Marasco Intrabodies: Basic Research and Clinical Gene Therapy Applications, (Springer Life Sciences 1998; ISBN 3-540-64151-3) (summarizes preclinical studies from laboratories worldwide that have used intrabodies); Zanetti and Capra "Intrabodies: From Antibody Genes to Intracellular Communication," The Antibodies: Volume 4, [Harwood Academic Publishers; ISBN 90-5702-559-0 (Dec. 1997)]; Jones and Marasco, Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews, 31 153-170 (1998); Pumphrey and Marasco, Biodrugs. 179-185 (1998); Dachs et al., Oncology Res., 9(6-7); 313-325 (1997); Rondon and Marasco, Ann. Rev. Microbiol., 51: 257-283 (1997)]; Marasco, Immunotechnology, 1-19 (1995); and Richardson and Marasco, Trends in Biotechnology, 13(8): 306-310 (1995).] MN-specific intrabodies may prevent the maturation and transport of MN protein to the cell surface and thereby prevent the MN protein from functioning in an oncogenic process. Antibodies directed to MN's EC, TM or IC domains may be useful in this regard. MN protein is considered to mediate signal transduction by WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 t' transferring signals from the EC domain to the IC tail and then by associatingwith 0 other intracellular proteins within the cell's interior. MN-specific intrabodies could disrupt that association and perturb that MN function. 
 SInactivating the function of the MN protein could result in reversion of tumor cells to a non-transformed phenotype. [Marasco et al. (1997), supra.] Ctl Antisense expression of MN cDNA in cervical carcinoma cells, as demonstrated herein, has shown that loss of MN protein has led to growth suppression of the transfected cells. It is similarly expected that inhibition of MN protein transport to the cell surface would have similar effects. Cloning and intracellular expression of the S 10 M75 MAb's variable region is to be studied to confirm that expectation. 
 c Preferably, the intracellularly produced MN-specific antibodies are C single-chain antibodies, specifically single-chain variable region fragments or sFv, in which the heavy- and light-chain variable domains are synthesized as a single polypeptide and are separated by a flexible linker peptide, preferably (Gly 4 -Ser) 3 [SEQ ID NO: 116]. 
 MN-specific intracellularly produced antibodies can be used therapeutically to treat preneoplastic/neoplastic disease by transfecting preneoplastic/neoplastic cells that are abnormally expressing MN protein with a vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding MN-specific antibody variable region fragments, operatively linked to an expression control sequence. Preferably said expression control sequence would comprise the MN gene promoter. 
 Antibody-Mediated Gene Transfer Using MN-Specific Antibodies or Peptides for Targeting MN-Expressing Tumor Cells An MN-specific antibody or peptide covalently linked to polylysine, a polycation able to compact DNA and neutralize its negative charges, would be expected to deliver efficiently biologically active DNA into an MN-expressing tumor cell. If the packed DNA contains the HSVtk gene under control of the MN promoter, the system would have double specificity for recognition and expression only in MNexpressing tumor cells. The packed DNA could also code for cytokines to induce CTL activity, or for other biologically active molecules. 
 The M75 MAb (or, for example, as a single chain antibody, or as its variable region) is exemplary of such a MN-specific antibody. Example 5 discloses heptapeptides (SEQ ID NOS: 107-109) that bind to the enzymatic center of the CA WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M domain of the MN protein and, selected peptides or proteins compnsing such O heptapeptides would also be expected to bind to a binding side on the extracellular N domain of the MN protein. 
 Imaging Use of Antibodies Further, the MN-specific antibodies of this invention when linked to an imaging agent, such as a radionuclide, can be used for imaging. Biologically active O antibody fragments or humanized monoclonal antibodies, may be preferred for 
 IO 
 imaging use. 
 A patient's neoplastic tissue can be identified as, for example, sites of c transformed stem cells, of tumors and locations of any metastases. Antibodies, 
 O 
 C appropriately labeled or linked to an imaging agent, can be injected in a physiologically acceptable carrier into a patient, and the binding of the antibodies can be detected by a method appropriate to the label or imaging agent, for example, by scintigraphy. Exemplary are studies with the G250 Mab. 
 Steffens et al., J. Urol., 159(5)(Suppl.): Abstract 562 (May 1998), describe a Phase 1/11 study with 131 1-cG250 MAb in patients with metastasized RCC. 
 MAb cG250 is a chimeric MAb in which constant regions of the mouse immunoglobulin have been exchanged for human immunoglobulin regions. 
 [Oosterwijk and Debruyne, World J. Urol., 13: 186 (1995).] Uptake of the cG250 MAb in primary RCC was shown to be as high as 0.52 percent of the injected dose per gram of tumor tissue The study concluded that 131 1-cG250 is a promising candidate for radioimmunotherapy and a phase 1/11 activity dose escalation study was initiated to determine the safety, maximum tolerable dose (MTD) and therapeutic potential of 131 1-cG250." Bander et al., Proceedings Am. Urol. Assoc., 155(Suppl.): 583A (Abstract 1088) (May 1996), describes renal cancer imaging with the MN-specific MAb G250, which detects MN present in 85-90% of renal cancers but does not detect MN on normal kidney cells. Bander et al. reports that 48 patients were entered in clinical trials with 131 1-G250 MAb. 
 MN Gene Cloning and Sequencing Figure 1A-C provides the nucleotide sequence for a full-length MN cDNA clone [SEQ ID NO: Figure 2A-F provides a complete MN genomic WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 t' sequence [SEQ ID NO: The nucleotide sequence fora proposea M'Npromrter-i 0 shown in Figure 2A-F at nts 3001 to 3540 [SEQ ID NO: 24]. 
 It is understood that because of the degeneracy of the genetic code, Sthat is, that more than one codon will code for one amino acid [for example, the codons TTA, TTG, CTT, CTC, CTA and CTG each code for the amino acid leucine l that variations of the nucleotide sequences in, for example, SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 3 wherein one codon is substituted for another, would produce a substantially o equivalent protein or polypeptide according to this invention. All such variations in C the nucleotide sequences of the MN cDNA and complementary nucleic acid S 10 sequences are included within the scope of this invention. 
 c It is further understood that the nucleotide sequences herein described 
 O 
 O and shown in Figures 1 and 2 represent only the precise structures of the cDNA, genomic and promoter nucleotide sequences isolated and described herein. It is expected that slightly modified nucleotide sequences will be found or can be modified by techniques known in the art to code for substantially similar or homologous MN proteins and polypeptides, for example, those having similar epitopes, and such nucleotide sequences and proteins/ polypeptides are considered to be equivalents for the purpose of this invention. DNA or RNA having equivalent codons is considered within the scope of the invention, as are synthetic nucleic acid sequences that encode proteins/polypeptides homologous or substantially homologous to MN proteins/polypeptides, as well as those nucleic acid sequences that would hybridize to said exemplary sequences [SEQ. ID. NOS. 1, 3 and 24] under stringent conditions, or that, but for the degeneracy of the genetic code would hybridize to said cDNA nucleotide sequences under stringent hybridization conditions. Modifications and variations of nucleic acid sequences as indicated herein are considered to result in sequences that are substantially the same as the exemplary MN sequences and fragments thereof. 
 Stringent hybridization conditions are considered herein to conform to standard hybridization conditions understood in the art to be stringent. For example, it is generally understood that stringent conditions encompass relatively low salt and/or high temperature conditions, such as provided by 0.02 M to 0.15 M NaCl at temperatures of 500C to 700C. Less stringent conditions, such as, 0.15 M to 0.9 M salt at temperatures ranging from 200C to 550C can be made more stringent by WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Sadding increasing amounts of formamide, which serves to aestabilie hybrid O duplexes as does increased temperature. 
 O 
 Exemplary stringent hybridization conditions are described in dSambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, pages 1.91 and 9.47- 9.51 (Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; Cold Spring Harbor, Cl NY; 1989); Maniatis et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, pages 387-389 (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory; Cold Spring Harbor, NY; 1982); Tsuchiya et al., Oral O Surgery, Oral Medicine, Oral Pathology, 71(6): 721-725 (June 1991). 
 SPlasmids containing the MN genomic sequence (SEQ ID NO: 3) the S 10 A4a clone and the XE1 and XE3 subclones were deposited at the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) on June 6, 1995, respectively under ATCC Deposit Nos. 
 0 97199, 97200, and 97198. 
 Exon-lntron Structure of Complete MN Genomic Region The complete sequence of the overlapping clones contains 10,898 bp (SEQ ID NO: Figure 3 depicts the organization of the human MN gene, showing the location of all 11 exons as well as the 2 upstream and 6 intronic Alu repeat elements. All the exons are small, ranging from 27 to 191 bp, with the exception of the first exon which is 445 bp. The intron sizes range from 89 to 1400 bp. The CA domain is encoded by exons 2-8, while the exons 1,10 and 11 correspond respectively to the proteoglycan-like domain, the transmembrane anchor and cytoplasmic tail of the MN/CA IX protein. Table 1 below lists the splice donor and acceptor sequences that conform to consensus splice sequences including the AG- GT motif [Mount, Nucleic Acids Res. 10: 459-472 (1982)]. 
 TABLE 1 Exon-lntron Structure of the Human MN Gene Genomic SEQ 5'splice SEQ Exon Size Position** ID NO donor ID NO 1 445 *3507-3951 25 AGAAG gtaagt 46 2 30 5126-5155 26 TGGAG gtgaga 47 3 171 5349-5519 27 CAGTC gtgagg 48 4 143 5651-5793 28 CCGAG gtgagc 49 93 5883-5975 29 TGGAG gtacca 6 67 7376-7442 30 GGAAG gtcagt 51 7 158 8777-8934 31 AGCAG gtgggc 52 8 145 9447-9591 32 GCCAG gtacag 53 9 27 9706-9732 33 TGCTG gtgagt 54 82 10350-10431 34 CACAG gtatta 11 191 10562-10752 35 ATAAT end Genomic SEQ 3'splice SEQ Intron Size Position ID NO acceptor ID NO 1 1174 3952-5125 36 atacag GGGAT 56 2 193 5156-5348 37 ccccag GCGAC 57 3 131 5520-5650 38 acgcag TGCAA 58 4 89 5794-5882 39 tttcag ATCCA 59 1400 5976-7375 40 ccccag GAGGG 6 1334 7443-8776 41 tcacag GCTCA 61 7 512 8935-9446 42 ccctag CTCCA 62 8 114 9592-9705 43 ctccag TCCAG 63 9 617 9733-10349 44 tcgcag GTGACA 64 130 10432-10561 45 acacag AAGGG positions are related to nt numbering flanking region [Figure 2A-F] *number corresponds to transcription protection assay in whole genomic sequence including the initiation site determined below by RNase Mapping of MN Gene Transcription Initiation and Termination Sites Zavada et al., WO 95/34650 describes the process of mapping the MN gene transcription initiation and termination sites. A RNase protection assay was WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 t' used for fine mapping of the 5' end of the MN gene. The probe was a -uitoruly 0 labeled 470 nucleotide copy RNA (nt -205 to +265) [SEQ ID NO: 66], which was 
 O 
 Cl hybridized to total RNA from MN-expressing HeLa and CGL3 cells and analyzed on Da sequencing gel. That analysis has shown that the MN gene transcription initiates at multiple sites, the 5' end of the longest MN transcript being 30 nt longer than that C previously characterized by RACE. 
 O MN Proteins and/or Polypeptides The phrase "MN proteins and/or polypeptides" (MN S 10 proteins/polypeptides) is herein defined to mean proteins and/or polypeptides c n encoded by an MN gene or fragments thereof. An exemplary and preferred MN C protein according to this invention has the deduced amino acid sequence shown in Figure 1. Preferred MN proteins/polypeptides are those proteins and/or polypeptides that have substantial homology with the MN protein shown in Figure 1. For example, such substantially homologous MN proteins/ polypeptides are those that are reactive with the MN-specific antibodies of this invention, preferably the Mabs M75, MN12, MN9 and MN7 or their equivalents. 
 A "polypeptide" or "peptide" is a chain of amino acids covalently bound by peptide linkages and is herein considered to be composed of 50 or less amino acids. A "protein" is herein defined to be a polypeptide composed of more than amino acids. The term polypeptide encompasses the terms peptide and oligopeptide. 
 MN proteins exhibit several interesting features: cell membrane localization, cell density dependent expression in HeLa cells, correlation with the tumorigenic phenotype of HeLa x fibroblast somatic cell hybrids, and expression in many human carcinomas among other tissues. MN protein can be found directly in tumor tissue sections but not in general in counterpart normal tissues (exceptions noted above as in normal gastric mucosa and gallbladder tissues). MN is also expressed sometimes in morphologically normal appearing areas of tissue specimens exhibiting dysplasia and/or malignancy. Taken together, these features suggest a possible involvement of MN in the regulation of cell proliferation, differentiation and/or transformation. 
 It can be appreciated that a protein or polypeptide produced by a neoplastic cell in vivo could be altered in sequence from that produced by a tumor WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M^ cell in cell culture or by a transformed cell. Thus, MN proteins andlbr po(ypeptidles O which have varying amino acid sequences including without limitation, amino acid C substitutions, extensions, deletions, truncations and combinations thereof, fall within Dthe scope of this invention. It can also be appreciated that a protein extant within body fluids is subject to degradative processes, such as, proteolytic processes; thus, MN proteins that are significantly truncated and MN polypeptides may be found in body fluids, such as, sera. The phrase "MN antigen" is used herein to encompass O MN proteins and/or polypeptides. 
 It will further be appreciated that the amino acid sequence of MN S 10 proteins and polypeptides can be modified by genetic techniques. One or more c amino acids can be deleted or substituted. Such amino acid changes may not cause any measurable change in the biological activity of the protein or polypeptide and result in proteins or polypeptides which are within the scope of this invention, as well as, MN muteins. 
 The MN proteins and polypeptides of this invention can be prepared in a variety of ways according to this invention, for example, recombinantly, synthetically or otherwise biologically, that is, by cleaving longer proteins and polypeptides enzymatically and/or chemically. A preferred method to prepare MN proteins is by a recombinant means. 
 Recombinant Production of MN Proteins and Polvpeptides A representative method to prepare the MN proteins shown in Figure 1 or fragments thereof would be to insert the full-length or an appropriate fragment of MN cDNA into an appropriate expression vector. In Zavada et al., WO 93/18152, supra, production of a fusion protein GEX-3X-MN (now termed GST-MN) using a partial cDNA in the vector pGEX-3X (Pharmacia) is described. Nonglycosylated GST-MN (the MN fusion protein MN glutathione S-transferase) from XL1-Blue cells. 
 Zavada et al., WO 95/34650 describes the recombinant production of both a glycosylated MN protein expressed from insect cells and a nonglycosylated MN protein expressed from E. coli using the expression plasmid pEt-22b [Novagen Inc.; Madison, WI Recombinant baculovirus express vectors were used to infect insect cells. The glycosylated MN 20-19 protein was recombinantly produced in baculovirus-infected sf9 cells [Clontech; Palo Alto, CA (USA)]. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 tM Preparation of MN-Specific Antibodies O The term "antibodies" is defined herein to include not only whole 
 O 
 Nl antibodies but also biologically active fragments of antibodies, preferably fragments Scontaining the antigen binding regions. Monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies use encompassed by that term as the context indicates. Further included in the definition C of antibodies are bispecific antibodies that are specific for MN protein and to another tissue-specific antigen. Von Mehren et al., Annu. Rev. Med., 54: 343-369 (2003) O explains the use of mabs for cancer therapy and clearly delineates preferred fragments thereof. 
 Size is critical to the design of antibody fragments used for tumor c therapy; smaller fragments often have diminished affinity and antigen specificity. A O class of molecules of about 25 kDa, single-chain FV (scFv) molecules, composed of peptide-linked VH and VLdomains, are large enough to be effective targeting vehicles while providing the basis for the construction of larger antibody-based reagents. 
 However, the scFv molecules are small enough to allow their rapid renal elimination, and therefore are attractive candidates for radiolabelling. They can also be dimerized into larger molecules for slower systemic clearance and greater avidity for target cells, making them potentially useful in tumor therapy. 
 Zavada et al., WO 93/18152 and WO 95/34650 describe in detail methods to produce MN-specific antibodies, and detail steps of preparing representative MN-specific antibodies as the M75, MN7, MN9, and MN12 monoclonal antibodies. Bispecific Antibodies. Bispecific antibodies can be produced by chemically coupling two antibodies of the desired specificity. Bispecific MAbs can preferably be developed by somatic hybridization of 2 hybridomas. 
 Bispecific MAbs for targeting MN protein and another antigen can be produced by fusing a hybridoma that produces MN-specific MAbs with a hybridoma producing MAbs specific to another antigen. For example, a cell (a quadroma), formed by fusion of a hybridoma producing a MN-specific MAb and a hybridoma producing an anti-cytotoxic cell antibody, will produce hybrid antibody having specificity of the parent antibodies. [See, Immunol. Rev. (1979); Cold Spring Harbor Symposium Quant. Biol., 41: 793 (1977); van Dijk et al., Int. J. Cancer, 43: 344-349 (1989).] Thus, a hybridoma producing a MN-specific MAb can be fused with a hybridoma producing, for example, an anti-T3 antibody to yield a cell line which produces a WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 MN/T3 bispecific antibody which can target cytotoxic T cells to MN-expressing tumor 0 cells. 
 C It may be preferred for therapeutic and/or imaging uses that the Santibodies be biologically active antibody fragments, preferably genetically engineered fragments, more preferably genetically engineered fragments from the l VH and/or VL regions, and still more preferably comprising the hypervariable regions thereof. However, for some therapeutic uses bispecific antibodies targeting MN o protein and cytotoxic cells would be preferred. 
 0 Humanized or Fully Human Antibodies to Various CA IX Domains c For clinical use, whether diagnostic/prognostic or therapeutic, but O preferably for therapeutic use, it is preferable to use humanized or more preferably fully human CA IX specific antibodies. Such antibodies could be made to any of the CA IX domains, the extracellular domain, including the PG and CA regions, the TM and/or IC domains. It may be preferred to downregulate CA IX abnormally expressing cells by contacting them with CA IX-specific antibodies directed to the extracellular domain, and more specifically to either the PG and/or CA regions. One might also interfere with the signal transduction of CA IX by contacting the IC domain with antibodies specific thereto. 
 References that are representative of those explaining how one of skill in the art can prepare humanized and fully human antibodies by antibody engineering, including the use of transgenic mice include the following: Clark M., Immunol. Today, 21(8): 397-402 (Aug. 2000); Davis et al., Cancer Metastasis Rev., 18(4): 421-425 (1999); Gavilondo and Larrick, Biotechniques, 29(1): 128-132 and 134-136, 138 passim (July 2000); Zou and Rajewsky, Science, 262(5137): 1271- 1274 (Nov. 19, 1993); Sandhu, Crit. Rev. Biotechnol., 12(5-6): 437-462 (1992); Vaughan et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 16(6): 535-539 (June 1998); Hoogenboom and Chames, Immunol. Today, 21(8): 371-378 (Aug. 2000); Holliger and Bohlen, Cancer Metastasis Rev., 18(4): 411-419 (1999); Owens and Young, J. Immunol. Methods, 168(2): 149-165 (Feb. 10, 1994); and Gura, Nature, 417(6889): 584-586 (June 6, 2002). 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M Epitopes O The affinity of a MAb to peptides containing an epitope depends on the N context, e.g. on whether the peptide is a short sequence (4-6 aa), or whether such a Sshort peptide is flanked by longer aa sequences on one or both sides, or whether in testing for an epitope, the peptides are in solution or immobilized on a surface. 
 C Therefore, it would be expected by ones of skill in the art that the representative epitopes described herein for the MN-specific MAbs would vary in the context of the o use of those MAbs. 
 O The term "corresponding to an epitope of an MN protein/polypeptide" will be understood to include the practical possibility that, in some instances, amino c acid sequence variations of a naturally occurring protein or polypeptide may be O antigenic and confer protective immunity against neoplastic disease and/or antitumorigenic effects. Possible sequence variations include, without limitation, amino acid substitutions, extensions, deletions, truncations, interpolations and combinations thereof. Such variations fall within the contemplated scope of the invention provided the protein or polypeptide containing them is immunogenic and antibodies elicited by such a polypeptide or protein cross-react with naturally occurring MN proteins and polypeptides to a sufficient extent to provide protective immunity and/or anti-tumorigenic activity when administered as a vaccine. 
 MN-Specific Intrabodies Targeted Tumor Killing Via Intracellular Expression of MN-Specific Antibodies to Block Transport of MN Protein to Cell Surface The gene encoding antibodies can be manipulated so that the antigenbinding domain can be expressed intracellularly. Such "intrabodies" that are targeted to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum provide a simple and effective mechanism for inhibiting the transport of plasma membrane proteins to the cell surface. [Marasco, "Review Intrabodies: turning the humoral immune system outside in or intracellular immunization," Gene Therapy, 4: 11-15 (1997); Chen et al., "Intracellular antibodies as a new class of therapeutic molecules for gene therapy," Hum. Gene Ther., 595-601 (1994); Mhashilkar et al., EMBO 14:1542-1551 (1995); Mhashilkar et al., J. Virol., 71: 6486-6494 (1997); Marasco Intrabodies: Basic Research and Clinical Gene Therapy Applications, (Springer Life Sciences WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 1998; ISBN 3-540-64151-3) (summarizes preclinical studies from laboratories O worldwide that have used intrabodies); Zanetti and Capra "Intrabodies: From 
 O 
 Cl Antibody Genes to Intracellular Communication," The Antibodies: Volume 4, S[Harwood Academic Publishers; ISBN 90-5702-559-0 (Dec. 1997)]; Jones and S 5 Marasco, Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews, 31 153-170 (1998); Pumphrey and Marasco, Biodrugs, 179-185 (1998); Dachs et al., Oncology Res., 9(6-7); 313-325 (1997); Rondon and Marasco, Ann. Rev. Microbiol., 51:257-283 (1997)]; 0 Marasco, Immunotechnology, 1-19 (1995); and Richardson and Marasco, C Trends in Biotechnoloqy, 13(8): 306-310 (1995).] MN-specific intrabodies may prevent the maturation and transport of Cc MN protein to the cell surface and thereby prevent the MN protein from functioning in 
 O 
 O an oncogenic process. Antibodies directed to MN's EC, TM or IC domains may be useful in this regard. MN protein is considered to mediate signal transduction by transferring signals from the EC domain to the IC tail and then by associating with other intracellular proteins within the cell's interior. MN-specific intrabodies could disrupt that association and perturb that MN function. 
 Inactivating the function of the MN protein could result in reversion of tumor cells to a non-transformed phenotype. [Marasco et al. (1997), supra.] Antisense expression of MN cDNA in cervical carcinoma cells has shown that loss of MN protein has led to growth suppression of the transfected cells. It is similarly expected that inhibition of MN protein transport to the cell surface would have similar effects. Cloning and intracellular expression of the M75 MAb's variable region is to be studied to confirm that expectation. 
 Preferably, the intracellularly produced MN-specific antibodies are single-chain antibodies, specifically single-chain variable region fragments or scFv, in which the heavy- and light-chain variable domains are synthesized as a single polypeptide and are separated by a flexible linker peptide, preferably (Gly 4 -Ser) 3 MN-specific intracellularly produced antibodies can be used therapeutically to treat preneoplastic/neoplastic disease by transfecting preneoplastic/neoplastic cells that are abnormally expressing MN protein with a vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding MN-specific antibody variable region fragments, operatively linked to an expression control sequence. Preferably said expression control sequence would comprise the MN gene promoter. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Antibody-Mediated Gene Transfer Using MN-Specific O Antibodies or Peptides for Targeting MN-Expressing Tumor Cells 
 O 
 SAn MN-specific antibody or peptide covalently linked to polylysine, a polycation able to compact DNA and neutralize its negative charges, would be C expected to deliver efficiently biologically active DNA into an MN-expressing tumor cell. If the packed DNA contains the HSVtk gene under control of the MN promoter, o the system would have double specificity for recognition and expression only in MNexpressing tumor cells. The packed DNA could also code for cytokines to induce S 10 CTL activity, or for other biologically active molecules. The M75 MAb (or, for S example, as a single chain antibody, or as its variable region) is exemplary of such a C MN-specific antibody. 
 The following examples are for purposes of illustration only and are not meant to limit the invention in any way. 
 EXAMPLE 1 Preparation of CA IX-Deficient Mice MATERIALS AND METHODS Cloning of mouse Car9 cDNA Mouse cDNA was obtained by RT PCR using primers derived from a human Car9 cDNA (EMBL Accession No. X66839; SEQ ID NO: 70). The template total RNA was prepared from C57BL/6J mouse stomach by acid guanidium thiocyanate-phenol/chloroform isolation [Siebert et al. (1993)]. First strand synthesis was carried out under standard conditions using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Life Technologies, Germany). The set of the human primers was as follows: sense ATC CAC GTG GTT CAC CTC AG (SEQ ID NO: 71) and antisense CTT TGG TTC CCC TTC TGT GC (SEQ ID NO: 72); corresponding to the human cDNA fragment 760-1345 [SEQ ID NO: 73] of Figure 1A-1C. PCR reactions were carried out in cycles (94C, 30 sec, 550C, 40 sec, and 720C, 60 sec). Entire cDNA including open reading frame, and 5'-untranslated regions, was obtained by the 3' and 5' RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends). The 3' and 5' RACE kits (Life Technologies) were used as recommended by the manufacturer. Two gene-specific primers were used in 3' RACE: sense S1 CAG GAG AGC CCA GAA GAA AA (SEQ ID NO: 74); sense S2 TGA AGG GTC TCT GAC CAC AC (SEQ ID NO: 75). Three gene-specific S primers were used in 5' RACE: antisense Al AGC TGT AGG AGG AAG GCG AT z (SEQ ID NO: 76); antisense A2 TGA CAG CAA AGA GAA GGC CA (SEQ ID NO: S 77); antisense A3 CAG GGA AGG AAG CCT CAA TC (SEQ ID NO: 78). All i resulting amplicons were cloned with the TA Cloning KIT (Invitrogen, Netherlands) and sequenced on Applied Biosystems automatic sequencer. The cDNA sequence was deposited in EMBL (Accession No. AJ245857; SEQ ID NO: 79). 
 Cloninq of mouse Car9 .qene 0 A mouse embryonic stem (ES) cell 129/Sv BAC library (Genome Systems, USA) was screened with the full size Car9 cDNA. BAC DNA was analyzed with various restriction endonucleases and hybridized with the murine Car9 cDNA. 
 Selected positive clones resulting from EcoRI (6.5kb) and Kpnl (1.4kb) digestion were subcloned into pBluescript KS and analyzed by automatic sequencing. The genomic sequence was deposited in the GenBank (Accession No. AY049077; SEQ ID NO: Generation of Car9 deficient mouse The EcoRI-Hindlll fragment (5.9 kb) derived from the subcloned genomic EcoRI fragment and encompassing the first 6 exons of the Car9 gene was used for the construction of the pCar9-neo targeting vector. The pCar9-neo vector was constructed by standard recombinant techniques in a pBluescript KS lacking BamHI restriction site. EcoRI-BamHI restriction fragment (1.5kb) was used as a genomic arm containing the promoter and a part of the first exon. BamHI-Hindll restriction fragment (4.5kb) was used as a 3' genomic arm extending from the end of the first exon to the exon 6. Using this approach, the sequence of 14bp region situated between the two BamHI sites was deleted from the first exon and replaced by the phosphoglycerate kinase-neomycin phosphotransferase (pgk-neo) cassette. 
 Linearized targeting vector was introduced into E14 ES 129/Ola cell line by electroporation. Targeted ES cell clones were enriched by selection with G418 (400 pg/ml) and identified by Southern blot analysis using EcoRI-Xbal fragment as an external 5' probe and Hindlll-EcoRI fragment as an external 3' probe (see Fig.8). 
 Cloned ES cell lines were injected into C57BL/6J blastocysts to produce C57BL/6J- 129/Ola chimeric mice. Chimeras were created from two different ES clones WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 t' possessing the pCar9-neo inserted by homologous recomoination. The r2 9 101a O contribution in adult chimeric offspring was determined by coat color. Southern t C blotting with the above-described probes was used to recognize those mice that Dcarried the targeted allele. Animal experiments were approved by the government office LAGETSI, Berlin, under the license number G 0224/00. 
 CN1 Analysis of the Car9 mRNA expressed from the targeted gene Q Isolation of RNA from Car9 and Car9' mouse stomach, RT PCR and RACE were performed and analyzed as described above using the following S 10 primers: primers for the 5'RACE: 900A antisense GAT ACA TCC AAA CCT GGG ATC TCA A (SEQ ID NO: 81); 800A antisense TCC TGC AGA AAG GCA GCC o AAA ACT G (SEQ ID NO: 82); 700A antisense CAG GGA AAC GGT GAC CAT TGA CTG T (SEQ ID NO: 83); (ii) primers for RT PCR: A (MNG sense) GAC ACC CCA GTC AGC TGC ATG GCC T (SEQ ID NO: 84); B (NeoV) CAT TCT CAG TAT TGT TTT GCC AAG TT (SEQ ID NO: 85); C (Neo sense) CGA AGG AGC AAA GCT GCT ATT GGC C (SEQ ID NO: 86); D (MNA antisense) TGT GCT CAG GAG CCT CGG GAG TCG A (SEQ ID NO: 87); E (EXS1 sense) AGT CAA GGT TCC CAC GGG GAT GAA (SEQ ID NO: 88); F (1403A antisense) AAG GAG GCT GTA TAA CAG GCA GGA C (SEQ ID NO: 89). 
 Preparation of the rabbit anti-mouse CA IX polvclonal antibody Full length Car9 cDNA was subcloned into the bacterial expression vector pGEX-4T-1. GST-mCAIX bacterial recombinant protein was produced in transformed E. coil strain DH5 cells following induction with 1 mM IPTG for hrs and isolated from the bacterial cell lysate by affinity chromatography using Glutathione Sepharose 4B (Amersham Pharmacia, Sweden). Rabbits were inoculated intramuscularly with 1 mg of the GST-mCAIX fusion protein and complete Freund's adjuvant. The next three injections at monthly intervals were given with 0.25 mg of the protein and incomplete adjuvant. To remove GST-specific antibodies, immune sera were purified using Glutathione Sepharose-bound GST protein and tested for the reactivity to mouse CA IX. Selected serum was employed in 1:500 dilution in immunohistochemical analysis described below and in immunoblotting. 
 Briefly, protein extracts were prepared from the stomach mucosa of Car9+ and Car9 mice as well as from the mock-transfected and Car9 cDNA-transfected WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 NIH3T3 cells using lipofectamine (Life Technologies). Total protern concentrations- O were determined using BCA kit (Pierce, USA) in all samples and aliquots containing 
 O 
 NC equal amount of total proteins were analyzed as described elsewhere [Pastorekova etal. (1997)]. 
 Analysis of blood gases, electrolytes and serum qastrin Awakened mice were gently warmed for 10 min under a red light lamp to increase peripheral blood circulation. Blood (1.5-5.5 ml) from the tail vein was \0 collected from several animals in heparin-, EDTA-treated tubes or non-treated tubes and analyzed for gases, electrolytes and pH using automated laboratory analyzers c (Boehringer Mannheim, Germany) according to manufacturer's recommendations. 
 O 
 O The gastrin levels were measured using a specific antibody raised against human gastrin 17 as described [Hocker et al. (1996)]. 
 Histochemical and immunohistochemical analyses Tissue specimens from Car9 and Car9' mice were cut from stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon, liver, pancreas, kidney and lung. The specimens were fixed in Carnoy's fluid (absolute ethanol chloroform glacial acetic acid in 6:3:1 ratio) for 24 hr at 40C or in 4% neutral-buffered formaldehyde for 24-48 hr at room temperature. The samples were then dehydrated, embedded in paraffin wax in a vacuum oven at 580C, and sections of 5 pm were placed on gelatincoated microscope slides. For the histochemical analysis, the sections were stained with hematoxylin/eosin and with diastase-resistant periodic acid Schiff (PAS). The immunohistochemical analysis was carried out using the following primary antibodies: anti-CA IX rabbit polyclonal serum (described above, diluted 1:500), anti- PCNA rabbit polyclonal antibody, anti-E-cadherin rabbit polyclonal antibody, anti-a catenin rabbit polyclonal antibody and anti- catenin rabbit polyclonal antibody (all from Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, final concentration 5pg/100p), polyclonal sheep anti-human pepsinogen II antibody (Binding Site, UK, diluted 1:2000), and polyclonal rabbit anti-a subunit of porcine gastric H+/K -ATPase (Calbiochem-Novabiochem, Germany, diluted 1:50). The immunostaining of tissue sections was performed by the biotin-streptavidin complex method, employing the following steps: Pre-treatment of the sections with undiluted cow colostral whey for 40 min and rinsing in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Incubation for 1 hr with the first antibody (except overnight incubation with anti-H /K+-ATPase antibody) in PBS containing 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA). Treatment with cow 0 colostral whey for 40 min and rinsing in PBS. Incubation for 1 hr with biotinylated swine anti-rabbit IgG (Dakopatts, Copenhagen, Denmark) or donkey anti-sheep/goat SIgG (Binding Site) diluted 1:300 in 1% BSA-PBS. Incubation for 30 min with peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin (Dakopatts) diluted 1:500 in PBS. Incubation for 2 min in DAB solution containing 9 mg 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (Fluka, Buchs, Switzerland) in 15 ml PBS 5p 30% H 2 0 2 The sections were S washed three times for 10 min in PBS after incubation steps 2, 4, and 5. All the 0 incubations and washings were carried out at room temperature and the sections were finally mounted in Permount (Fisher Scientific, Fair Lawn, NJ). The stained sections were examined and photographed with Nikon Eclipse E600 (Tokyo, Japan) microscope. 
 Morphometric analysis and statistical evaluation of data Stomach specimens from 10 wild type and 10 CA IX-deficient mice at the age of 26 and 35 weeks were stained for pepsinogen C and a subunit of H+/K ATPase. Both total and immunostained cells were counted in 50 longitudinally cut glands per mouse. Mann-Whitney rank test was applied to compare the numbers of cells in the Car9 versus Car9" mice. Relationship between the total numbers of cells and the numbers of parietal cells within the gastric units was analyzed in both groups of animals by regression analysis and the strength of the linear relationship was estimated by the Pearson's correlation coefficient R. Slopes of regression lines were compared by T test. P values of <0.05 and <0.01 were considered as significant and highly significant, respectively, for each of two tests. 
 RESULTS 
 Identification of Car9 cDNA Cloning and characterization of the cDNA and gene encoding the mouse CA IX was the first step towards generation of CA IX-deficient mice. Mouse Car9 cDNA fragment was isolated by RT PCR using primers derived from the human cDNA [Pastorek et al. (1994)] and the template RNA isolated from the stomach of C57 BL/6J mouse. The full-length cDNA was obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends in both 5'13' directions. It encompasses 1965 bp composed of 32 bp untranslated region, 1311 bp open reading frame and 622 bp 3' untranslated sequence (deposited in EMBL database under the Accession No. AJ245857; SEQ 0 ID NO: 79). 
 The Car9 cDNA has a coding capacity for a 437 amino acid protein (deposited in EMBL database under the Accession No. CAC80975 (Q8VDE4); SEQ ID NO: 90) with a theoretical molecular mass of 47.3 kDa. The mouse protein shows 69.5% sequence identity with its human homologue and has a similar predicted domain arrangement [Opavsky et al. (1996)]. Amino acids (aa) 1-31 (SEQ ID NO: 91) correspond to a signal peptide. The N-terminal extracellular region of 0 the mature protein (aa 32-389) (SEQ ID NO: 92) is composed of a proteoglycan-like region (aa 48-107) (SEQ ID NO: 93), and a carbonic anhydrase domain (aa 112- 369) (SEQ ID NO: 94). The C-terminal region (aa 390-437) (SEQ ID NO: consists of the transmembrane anchor (aa 390-411) (SEQ ID NO: 96) and a short cytoplasmic tail (aa 412-437) (SEQ ID NO: 97). Most of the sequence differences between the mouse and human CA IX were found within the proteoglycan-like (PG) region, while the CA domain revealed the highest conservation. However, out of the five key amino acids involved in the enzyme active site (His 94 His 96 Glu 1 06 His 119 Thr 199 [Christianson and Cox (1999)] all are preserved in human CA IX, but one is altered in the mouse isoenzyme (Thrl 99 -Ser). Despite this substitution, the mouse CA IX bound to a sulfonamide agarose suggesting that it may possess an enzyme activity. 
 Availability of Car9 cDNA allowed the analysis of the expression pattern of Car9 mRNA in mouse tissues. A ribonuclease protection assay (RNP) was carried out with a riboprobe of 170 bp designed to detect the 3' part of the region encoding the CA domain. As expected on the basis of the distribution in human and rat tissues, the highest level of Car9 mRNA was detected in the mouse stomach. Medium level of Car9 mRNA was found in the small intestine and colon, while the kidney and brain showed very weak expression. The liver and spleen were negative. Noteworthy, the RNP signal was also present in the mouse embryo at the age of embryonic day E18.5, but not in embryonic stem cells and in the E10.5 embryo. This may suggest a role for CA IX in the development of the mouse gastrointestinal tract. 
 Organization of Car9 gene z In order to isolate the Car9 gene and determine its organization, the full-length Car9 cDNA was used for screening of a mouse embryonic stem cell 129/Ola genomic library in pBAC108L. Obtained was one BACM-355(G13) clone that contained complete Car9 genomic sequence as confirmed by restriction mapping and Southern blot analysis of a mouse wild type genomic DNA. Three overlapping genomic fragments derived from this clone were subcloned into pBluescript II KS. 
 0 Analysis of the genomic sequence (GenBank Accession No. 
 AY049077; SEQ ID NO: 80) revealed that the Car9 gene covers 8.7 kb of the mouse genome and consists of 11 exons and 10 introns. Distribution of introns and exon-to-protein domain relationships are similar to the human counterpart [Opavsky et al. (1996)]. The Southern hybridization pattern indicated that Car9 is a single copy gene. The EcoRI-Hindlll fragment encompassing 5.9 kb and spanning the promoter region and exons 1-6 was used for a construction of the targeting vector. 
 Targetinq of the Car9 gene and generation of Car9' mice To disrupt the Car9 gene in the mouse embryonic stem cells, a pCar9neo targeting vector was constructed using the above-described genomic fragment. 
 The first exon was interrupted by a replacement of a 14 bp region (at position 268- 282) with a pgk-neo cassette in a reverse orientation (Fig.8A). Since the deleted region corresponded to a part of the PG domain of CA IX, insertion of a pgk-neo cassette caused a disruption of this domain and a separation of the sequence encoding the signal peptide from the rest of the protein. Moreover, deletion of the 14 bp was designed to cause a shift of the reading frame in the murine Car9 mRNA and prevent its correct translation. 
 After electroporation and selection of E14 embryonic stem cells by G418, eight clones that had undergone homologous recombination were identified. 
 Two of them were chosen for further manipulations. As confirmed by the Southern blotting with the 3' and 5' external probes, both targeted clones were shown to be without unintended rearrangements at the Car9 locus. Using these two lines of mutant ES cells, chimeric and Car9"' mice that were healthy and fertile were generated. The intercrossing of the heterozygous mice resulted in all three WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 q genotypes with Mendelian distribution among the offspri"g, as d'meon'strateb-by O Southern blot analysis from the tail genomic DNA samples. [Southern blot showed 
 O 
 the genotyping of the offspring from a heterozygous mating. DNA from tails of 3- Sweeks old mice was digested with EcoRI and hybridized with the 3' probe. The bands corresponded to wild type (6.5 kb) and mutated (8.3 kb) allele, respectively.] C RT PCR analysis with the gene specific primers revealed that homozygous Car9' mice expressed mRNA that was lacking exon 1. In contrast, o both mutated and wild type transcripts contained exons 2-11. Furthermore, pgk-neor derived primers in combination with exon 1-specific primers allowed for PCR S 10 amplification of the genomic DNA from Car9 mice confirming that the cassette was successfully introduced into the Car9 locus. Corresponding RT PCR amplicons from O mutated RNA were absent, bringing additional evidence that the 5' end of Car9 mRNA is missing. It was deduced from the 5' mRNA sequence obtained by RACE analysis that this was due to unexpected splicing of mutated Car9 transcript leading to deletion of the 5' untranslated region as well as the sequences coding for signal peptide, large part of PG-like domain and majority of pgk-neo cassette. Thus, the Car9 mice expressed chimeric mRNA that contained 77 nucleotides derived from the pgk-neo cassette linked via the 3' part of PG domain-related sequence (starting from nt 283) to the rest of Car9 cDNA. There were two potential translation initiation codons. The first AUG codon was out of frame. The second one would potentially lead to translation of the truncated protein that could not be properly processed due to the lack of signal peptide. Absence of this putative translation product in the mutant stomach was demonstrated by Western blotting analysis performed with the rabbit polyclonal antiserum raised against the full-length recombinant mouse CA IX protein. [Western blot analysis of the protein extracts from the wild type Car9* and mutant Car9' mouse stomach epithelium were performed. Extracts from NIH3T3 cells transfected with the full length Car9 cDNA and from mock-transfected NIH3T3 cells served as controls. The blot was processed with anti-CA IX rabbit antiserum raised against a full-length recombinant GST-mCA IX protein.] The CA IX-deficient mice showed no deviations from their wild type litter mates in growth, behavior, reproductive potential, health and life span. No morphological and histological abnormalities were observed in their lung, spleen, liver, kidney, jejunum, ileum and colon. 
 0Gastric phenotype of CA IX mutant mice Histopathological examination of stomach specimens from Car9' mice z regularly revealed remarkable hyperplastic changes when compared to stomachs of 0^ their heterozygous and wild type litter mates. While no changes were visible in Smutant mice during embryonic development, an increase in mucosal thickness was seen at postnatal day P0.5. The hyperplasia became prominent in 4 weeks-old animals, but it did not progress with the age and remained similar in 1.5 years old mice. 
 Cr In adult Car9 mice, the hyperplastic changes affected only the S glandular stomach epithelium, while the squamous epithelium of the non-glandular forestomach remained normal. The most pronounced hyperplasia concerned the corpus region. Mucosal folds were more prominent in the homozygous mutant mice than in their wild type littermates, and the pit-to-gland ratio increased to 1:3 or even 1:2 from the usual 1:4 in the wild type and heterozygous animals. These hyperplastic changes in the Car9 mouse mucosa were accompanied with numerous pathological cysts lined with a single layer of low cuboidal epithelial cells. No morphological signs of dysplasia were observed in any of the stomach sections from 2 to 3 mice checked at monthly intervals up till 1.5 years of age and normal structure of the subepithelial lamina propria was seen at all age points. 
 Presence of hyperplasia in Car9 mouse mucosa was confirmed by the morphometric analysis of stomach sections that revealed a highly significant (P=0.0007) difference between the total numbers of cells counted per 50 gastric units in 10 Car9 mice compared to 10 Car9 mice (see Fig. 9A). Based on median values, the mucosa of CA IX deficient mouse contained approximately by 30% more cells than the control epithelium. 
 Interestingly, small duodenal adenomas with slight to moderate dysplasia were observed in three of 15 Car9 mice. It cannot be excluded that their appearance was also associated with loss of CA IX, which is normally expressed in the proximal small intestine. 
 Cell proliferation, death and adhesion in hyperplastic mucosa To explore possible mechanisms that underlie gastric hyperplasia in Car9 mice, performed were immunohistochemical analyses of the stomach sections obtained from both mutant and wild type mice. First, an antibody raised S against the mouse CA IX to analyze its distribution in the wild type stomach was S employed. Strong CA IX-specific staining occurred in the corpus but not in the z forestomach of adult Car9' mice, consistent with the reversible presence of 0, phenotypic changes only in the corpus, but not in the forestomach of the Car9 mice. Positive staining of the Car9 stomach corpus was distributed in all epithelial cells, but its intensity was strongest at the basolateral surfaces of mature glandular and superficial pit cells. Noteworthy, immunohistochemical staining revealed lack of CA IX in stomachs of E15.5 and E17.5 embryos, but showed that it is weakly rn expressed in the stomach of the newborn mice. 
 0 Because hyperplasia may involve an increase in cellular proliferation and/or decrease in apoptosis, the determination of whether one of these two processes, or both were responsible for the observed gastric phenotype was considered important. Studied was the expression of PCNA, a marker of proliferating cells and observed characteristic staining pattern restricted to the proliferative zone in the Car9 mouse mucosa. In contrast, the proliferative compartment was considerably expanded in Car9 mice as suggested by the widely spread staining signal. Total number of PCNA-positive cells in mutant epithelium was markedly increased. On the other hand, annexin V staining and TUNEL DNA fragmentation analysis performed to assess the extent of apoptosis did not reveal any differences between the Car9 and Car9 mouse stomachs in proportion of apoptotic cells, thus indicating that hyperplasia could not be attributed to an impaired cell death. 
 Further immunohistochemical stainings were carried out to analyze possible relationship between gastric epithelial hyperplasia and expression of adhesion-related molecules, including E-cadherin, ,f-catenin and a-catenin. These analyses were based on the importance of cadherin/catenin-mediated pathways for proper development and organization of epithelial tissues [Gumbiner, B. (1996)] and on the observations supporting possible role of CA IX in cell adhesion and communication [Zavada et al. (2000), Pastorekova et al. (1997)]. We found that gastric mucosa of the wild type animals expressed E-cadherin predominantly at the basolateral surfaces of mature epithelial cells located in the deep glands and surface pits, in a fashion reminiscent of normal CA IX distribution. In contrast, E-cadherinpositive staining of Car9' mouse stomach was slightly weaker throughout the mucosa and its regional arrangement was less apparent. However, total E-cadherin WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 c, level determined by Western blotting in mutant stomach did not differ from the wild O type control. Expression of a- and f-catenins showed similar pattern: both catenins 
 O 
 t C were mostly present in mature epithelial cells of Car9 g mice, while their staining signal in Car9 mice was weaker and disorganized. The data indicate that loss of CA IX may result in perturbation of normal cell-cell adhesion albeit without pronounced effect on the expression level of the studied adhesion molecules. 
 QO Aberrant cell lineage distribution in the corpus of Car9 mouse stomach O The above observations led us to examine the spatial distribution and proportion of the major cell types in the stomach epithelium of the Car9 mice in comparison with the Car9 controls. To detect the mucus-producing pit cells, 0 sections of the glandular stomachs were stained with a diastase-resistant periodic acid of Schiff (PAS). PAS staining of the wild type stomach corpus was strongly positive in the surface pit region. In contrast, Car9'~ mice showed a markedly different staining pattern, with the intense PAS signal mostly expanded from the surface to the base of the corpus mucosa, although there was some inter-individual variation in the extent of the PAS positive area. This could probably occur as a result of abundant production and aberrant migration of the mucous cells that consequently populated inappropriate areas of the gastric epithelium. 
 Numbers of parietal cells were assessed by the morphometric analysis following immunohistochemical detection of a subunit of H+/K+-ATPase that served as a parietal cell lineage marker. As it is shown on Fig. 9B, stomachs of Car9~ mice contained significantly reduced proportion of parietal cells when compared to the wild type controls (P=0.0051). Regression analysis revealed significant positive correlation between the numbers of parietal cells and the total numbers of cells in gastric units from both wild type and CA IX-deficient mouse stomachs (Pearson's correlation coefficients R 2 0.68 and R2=0.61, respectively). Slopes of the regression lines of gastric units from Car9 and Car9 mice, respectively, were significantly different (P<0.0005) and CA IX-deficient gastric units showed clear tendency toward diminished production of parietal cells with increasing hyperplasia (Fig. 9D). 
 Altogether, these data support the view that loss of CA IX resulted in the perturbed differentiation of parietal cells. 
 To determine the position and number of functional chief cells, we performed an immunohistochemical staining for a pepsinogen C, a chief cell lineage- 0 specific marker [Karam et al. (1997)]. Cells containing pepsinogen granules were confined to the basal area in both normal and CA IX-deficient mouse gastric S epithelia. However, morphometric analysis has revealed a marked depletion of chief cells in corpus mucosa of Car9S mice. As demonstrated on Fig. 9C, decrease in i percentage of chief cells was highly significant (P=0.0001). 
 \0 Abnormal composition of the Car9 mouse gastric epithelium suggests that loss of CA IX has affected a cell-lineage allocation by redirecting the differentiation program towards the formation of pit cells at the expense of parietal mC and chief cells. 
 Systemic acid-base and electrolyte status Based on the abundant expression in normal gastric mucosa and relationship to other carbonic anhydrases acting in alimentary tract, CA IX has been proposed to participate in maintenance of acid-base balance. Its basolateral localization indicated that it could be involved in electrolyte exchange within the mucosa and/or with the submucosal region rather than in production of gastric acid that is directly linked to the catalytic properties of highly active CA II isoenzyme [Parkkila et al. (1996)]. Therefore, systemic acid/base and electrolyte status of the Car9 mice were examined. Blood samples taken from the adult mutant mice were compared to the samples from the age-matched wild type controls with respect to blood pH and content of plasma electrolytes. We have also measured the serum level of gastrin, as it may predict changes in gastric acid secretion. However, no statistically significant differences were found in any of the examined parameters (Table suggesting that elimination of CA IX resulting in gastric hyperplasia did not lead to any gross physiological defects. 
 TABLE 2 Plasma electrolytes, blood pH and serum gastrin were measured in two separate measurements from the blood of Car9/' and Car9 animals. 
 Serum Genotype pH HC0 3 Cl K Na gastrin (mM) (mM) (mM) (mM) (pg/ml) Car9 7.30 0.035 24.35 1.95 119 2 3.8 0.6 139.5 4.5 60 4 Car9 7.32 0.015 24.15 0.55 118 6 4.9 0.4 141.5 3.5 59 12 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 O DISCUSSION Morphogenesis of gastric mucosa in mouse is a complex process dinitiated during late gestation by a series of events. These include formation of primordial buds around embryonic day E18, precursor cell differentiation from C~l postnatal day P1 to P7, elongation of buds due to increase in number of precursors and their progeny from P7 to P15 and finally, assembly of gastric units and Q compartmentalization of cellular migration-differentiation programs between P15 and 2 P21 [Karam et al. (1997)]. Accomplishment of this complex process results in self- 10 renewing epithelium in which cell proliferation is confined to the stem and precursor cells in the middle portion of the unit. Their progenitors bi-directionally migrate and 0 simultaneously differentiate to supply the surface and the base of the unit by functional mature cells [Wright, N.A. (2000)]. Maintenance of a dynamic equilibrium between cell differentiation and proliferation ensures the proper mucosal functioning and integrity. 
 Expression of CA IX is firstly detectable at low level in mouse newborn stomach at day P0.5, during the early phase of gastric unit morphogenesis, and its abundance increases towards the adult age. The protein occupies membranes of epithelial cells throughout the adult mucosa of gastric body, but its level is higher in mature superficial pit cells and deep glandular cells. 
 Consistently with expression pattern and coincidentally with the course of gastric unit morphogenesis, targeted disruption of a Car9 gene encoding CA IX leads to manifestation of the gastric hyperplasia. First mild changes in the thickness of the gastric mucosa appear in the newborn Car9 mice as early as at day This is the time when expression of CA IX initiates in the wild type stomach. 
 Absence of CA IX results in partial elongation of buds probably as a consequence of excessive cell proliferation, while the normal bud elongation occurs later, between days P7 and P15. Hyperplastic changes are clearly visible in the 4-weeks' mutant mouse mucosa, when the unit morphogenesis is finished, but do not progress with the age. Deregulated proliferation affects the mucosa without any evident morphological alterations of the cells and without any significant changes in the cell death. 
 Interestingly, no additional phenotypic changes were observed in other tissues that normally do express CA IX, except the rare cases of duodenal adenoma. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 This could be due to redundancy provided by related carbonic anhydrase isozymes O [Parkkila et al. [1996)] similarly as it has been suggested for disruption of Tcf-7/2 
 O 
 Cl gene resulting in changes only in the small intestine but not in the colon, where this gene is highly expressed [Korinek et al. (1998)]. 
 S 5 The hyperplasia of Car9 gastric corpus mucosa is accompanied with l increased pit-to-gland ratio and aberrant distribution of mucus-producing pit cells as well as significant reduction of parietal and chief cells. These alterations indicate that loss of CA IX may directly affect lineage repertoire and partially disturb positional 
 O 
 0 instructions that normally direct upward migration of pit cell precursors and their descendants. Alternatively, elimination of CA IX may affect differentiation of parietal Cc cells that are the important source of instructions affecting other cells lineages 
 O 
 O [Karam et al. (1997)]. Hence, disbalance in production of pit and chief cells may be secondary to changes in parietal cell population. 
 Phenotype of mice with the targeted disruption of Car9 gene is reminiscent of other genetically modified models, including the mice lacking alp subunits of H /K -ATPase [Spicer et al. (2000), Scarff et al. (1999)], Kvlql voltagegated potassium channel [Lee et al. (2000)], and the mice overexpressing TGFa [(Sharp et al. (1995)]. These models show some similarities, but differ from Car9 model in specific aspects. Mice lacking either of two subunits of H/K+-ATPase are hypergastrinemic and achlorhydric, consistently with the established role of HI/K'- ATPase in production of gastric acid. Both models contain normal numbers of parietal cells but these have aberrant secretory membranes. Number of chief cells is reduced in mice deficient in i subunit but not in a subunit. The Kvlq1-deficient mice display mucous neck cell hyperplasia and production of vacuolated, nonfunctional parietal cells leading to hypergastrinemia and hypochlorhydria. 
 In contrast, there are no significant changes in serum gastrin levels in mice overexpressing TGF a despite expanded mucous pit cell population and depletion of mature parietal and chief cells. These findings are in accord with our observations. Because changes in levels of serum gastrin usually reflect perturbed gastric acid secretion, both studies indicate that CA IX and TGF a may not be directly involved in the production of gastric acid but may have other important functions within the gastric mucosa. 
 Based on all available facts, CA IX appears to contribute to balance between differentiation and proliferation in gastric mucosa via negative control of cell WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 proliferation and as a possible regulatory component of migration-associated O differentiation program. Loss of CA IX therefore leads to uncoupling of proliferation control from differentiation and migration signals and, consequently, to disruption of Snormal mucosal integrity and architecture. 
 S 5 Molecular pathways underlying the proposed CA IX function are not C, known. As a cell surface molecule, CA IX may be involved in reception and/or processing of maturation signals impeding the proliferation. In addition, it may serve \O as an acceptor of instructions that direct differentiation, spatial assignment and 
 O 
 LO allocation of cell lineages. Taking into account phenotypic similarities with additional transgenic models, list of possible candidates acting in the CA IX-related putative signal transduction pathway may involve mesenchymal transcription factor Fkh6 
 O 
 O [Kaestner et al. (1997)], Shh protein expressed in the epithelium of glandular cl stomach [Ramalho-Samos et al. (2000)], pS2 trefoil protein [Lefebvre et al. (1996)], NF-K B2 transcription factor [Ishikawa et al. (1997)], and/or modulator of cadherin function IQGAP1 [Li et al. (2000)]. However, genetic modifications of these genes lead to phenotypic changes beyond that observed with CA IX, involving more distinct alterations in differentiation program and/or physiological defects, such as development of dysplasia, or systemic changes in electrolyte status. Therefore, it is possible that they act upstream of CA IX or occupy independent signaling traits. 
 In fact, CA IX possesses several features predisposing it to function in a signal transduction. The PG-like region located at the N-terminus of human CA IX homologue was shown to possess the cell adhesion capacity in vitro [Zavada et al. 
 (2000)]. Via this region, CA IX located at the basolateral membranes may influence transmission of adhesion signals between mucosal cells and/or between mucosal and mesenchymal cells. In support of this view, stomach mucosa of mice lacking CA IX shows disorganized distribution of critical adhesion-related molecules E-cadherin, a-catenin and ,-catenin, although their levels are not markedly altered. Moreover, assuming from the homology with other carbonic anhydrases, large enzyme core of CA IX forms wide and deep pocket that may potentially serve as a receptor site. This idea is quite plausible given the capability of CA domain present in RPTP and y to bind contactin, a neural cell-specific regulator of adhesion and differentiation [Peles et al. (1995)]. 
 Functional involvement of the carbonic anhydrase activity of mouse CA IX in stomach mucosa is unclear, first due to lack of precise knowledge concerning WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 m its efficiency in catalyzing reversible conversion between carbon dioxide and 
 O 
 0 carbonic acid and second because of absence of any systemic acid-base and gastrin imbalance in Car9" mice. The latter may be also related to the presence of other CA Sisoenzymes whose activity may compensate for deficiency of CA IX. A highly active cytosolic CA II is present in surface epithelial cells where it produces bicarbonate c 1 and in parietal cells where it provides protons for secretion of gastric acid [Parkkila et al. (2000)]. Another isoenzyme, salivary CA VI, is swallowed into the stomach in 0 order to buffer mucosal surface by removal of excessive acid in the form of carbon 
 \O 
 dioxide In addition, CA IV is expressed in the endothelial cells of the CN 10 submucosal capillaries and mitochondrial CA V in parietal cells and G cells [Fleming 0 et al (1995), Saarnio et al, (1999)]. However, significance of individual isoenzymes 
 O 
 0C and their interplay in gastric morphogenesis and physiology is largely unknown also because the corresponding animal models are not available. The only exception is heritable CA II deficiency induced in mouse by chemical mutagenesis. Those mutant mice suffer from renal acidification, growth retardation and calcification of blood vessels, but no gastric phenotype has been reported [Lewis et al. (1998)]. 
 Thus, Car9" mice represent the first animal model of carbonic anhydrase deficiency constructed by the gene targeting. Moreover, phenotypic consequences of the targeted disruption of Car9 gene demonstrate important and nonredundant role of CA IX in control of cell proliferation/differentiation and protection of integrity of the stomach mucosa. CA IX is clearly required for the normal gastric morphogenesis and coordination of the dynamic homeostasis within the gastric epithelium. These conclusions are in accord with the high level of CA IX in normal human stomach mucosa and its diminished expression observed in gastric tumor cell lines and tumors in vivo [Pastorekova et al. (1997)]. 
 In summary, the analysis of CA IX null-mutation in mice revealed the biological importance of this protein and provided a useful model for clarifying its role in the morphogenesis of stomach mucosa. As can be seen in Example 2, the CA IXdeficient mice were also integral to the aspects of the invention herein concerning a new series of monoclonal antibodies. 
 EXAMPLE 2 CA IX-Specific Monoclonal Antibodies Generated from CA IX Deficient Mice WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 
 O 
 O MATERIALS AND METHODS Cell culture Hybridoma cell lines were grown in DMEM medium supplemented with FCS (BioWhittaker, Verviers, Belgium), 2 mM glutamine and 40 pg/ml gentamicin (Lek, Slovenia) at 37 0 C in 5% CO 2 in air. The same cultivation conditions 0 were applied to following cell lines that were used either as a source of CA IX antigen or as negative controls: mouse NIH 3T3 fibroblasts permanently transfected CN 10 with the full-length human CA9 cDNA (NIH 3T3-flCA IX) and corresponding mock O transfected NIH 3T3-neo controls [Pastorek et al. (1994)], MDCK cells transfected 
 O 
 NC with the full-length CA9 cDNA (MDCK-flCA IX) and corresponding MDCK-neo controls, human HT 29 colon carcinoma cells as well as human HeLa cervical carcinoma cells naturally expressing CA IX, and C33a cervical carcinoma cells negative for CA IX. 
 For the immunization purposes, the cells grown for 24-48 h were washed twice in PBS, scraped, collected by centrifugation and re-suspended in appropriate volume of PBS. For the final booster, NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells were extracted with OCG extraction buffer composed of 0.5M NaCI, 0.5% octyl-beta-Dglucopyranoside (Chemical Institute SAV, Bratislava, Slovakia), 0.1 mM PMSF) for min at 4 0 C, scraped, centrifuged for 5 min at 13 000 rpm and dialyzed against PBS for 48 h at 4 0 
 C. 
 Cloninq and preparation of recombinant GST-CA IX proteins The cDNA fragments encoding PG and CA extracellular domains of CA IX (see Figure 5) were either individually or together amplified by specific primers using a full-length CA9 cDNA as a template. The fragment coding for PG domain (aa 52-125) (SEQ ID NO: 98) was obtained with PG3 (sense) 5'-TAG AAT TCG GCT CTT CTG GGG AAG AT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 99) and PG4 (antisense) ATA CTC GAG GGG TTC TTG AGG ATC TCC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 100) primers, and the fragment coding for CA domain (aa 121-397) (SEQ ID NO: 101) was obtained with (sense) 5'-TAG AAT TCG ATC CTC AAG AAC CCC AG (SEQ ID NO: 102) and CA6 (antisense) AAT CTC GAG ACT GCT GTC CAC TCC AGC (SEQ ID NO: 103) primers. The combination of primers PG3 and CA6 was employed to produce cDNA fragment encoding PG+CA domains (aa 52-397) (SEQ ID NO: 104). 
 z The resulting PCR products were cloned into pGEX 4T-1 bacterial plasmid via EcoRI and Xhol restriction sites inserted in the primer sequences. 
 Fusion proteins GST-PG, GST-CA, GST-PG+CA were expressed in E. coli strain using the standard procedure [Gibadulinova et al. (1999)]. The full-length fusion GST-flCA IX protein generated earlier was produced in parallel. The proteins were purified by affinity chromatography using Glutathion-S Sepharose (Amersham S Pharmacia) and eluted with 10 mM GSH (reduced glutathion). Obtained proteins 0 were utilized either as antigens for MAb testing or as immunogen (GST-CA) for immunization. 
 Immunization For immunization, CA IX-deficient mice generated and characterized by Ortova Gut et al. (2002) were used at the age of eight to ten weeks. The mice were injected intraperitoneally with 5x10 6 NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells in 0.5 ml PBS. 
 Three weeks later, the mice received either the same i.p. injection of NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells or i.p. injection of 5x106 HT-29 cells in 0.5 ml PBS. After another three weeks, mice were boosted alternatively as follows: i.p. with 100 tg of GST-CA protein bound to Glutathion-S Sepharose in 0.5 ml PBS, (ii) intravenously with 100 p~g of eluted GST-CA protein in 200 tl PBS, (iii) i.p. with 5x10 6 NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells in 0.5 ml PBS, (iv) i.v. with 200 pl OCG extract of NIH 3T3-CA IX cells. 
 Splenocytes were harvested three days later and fused with the Sp2/0 myeloma cells. 
 Production of Mabs The fusion of splenocytes from immunized mice with Sp2/0 cells was carried out according to Lane et al. (1986). Hybridomas were selected in DMEM- HAT medium. The supernatants were screened for the specific reactivity towards CA IX by ELISA as described below. Positive hybridoma cultures were cloned by limiting dilution using Terasaki microplates. Clonal hybridoma cells lines were expanded, subjected to freezing-refreezing and repeatedly tested for reactivity to CA IX. Large quantities of antibodies were purified from hybridoma culture medium WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 em using affinity chromatography on Protein A Sepharose CI-4B (Amersham 
 O 
 0 Biosciences AB, Upsala, Sweden) as described by Ey et al. (1978). 
 SELISA screening Screening of positive hybridomas was performed by a sandwich cl ELISA. Microplate wells were coated overnight at 37 0 C with RIPA extract (specified below) of NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells, diluted 1:10 in PBS, and in parallel with analogous O extract of NIH 3T3-neo cells as a negative control. Then the coated wells were incubated with undiluted culture media from individual hybridomas. Peroxidase- C 10 labeled pig anti-mouse IgG (Sevapharma, Praha, Czech Republic) was used as O detector. M75 MAb was employed as positive control. 
 O 
 CN" For the differential ELISA screening, the wells were coated with the following antigens: 10 ng/well of GST-flCA IX, 10 ng/well of GST-CA IX, RIPA extract of HeLa cells diluted 1:10 in PBS, RIPA extract of HT-29 cells diluted 1:10 in PBS, and then assayed as above. 
 Determination of isotypes MAb isotypes were determined by ELISA using affinity purified rabbit anti-mouse IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, lgG3, IgM and IgA antibodies (Mouse Monoclonal Antibody Isotyping Reagents, Sigma, St. Louis, USA) according to instructions of the manufacturer. 
 Immunofluorescence Cells grown on glass coverslips were fixed in ice-cold methanol at OC for 5 min. Non-specific binding was blocked by incubation with PBS containing 1% BSA for 30 min at 37 0 C. Then, the cells were sequentially incubated with primary antibodies diluted in PBS with 0.5 BSA (PBS-BSA) for 1 h at 37C, washed three times with PBS-BSA for 10 min, incubated with anti-mouse FITCconjugated horse antibody (Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, USA.) diluted 1:300 in PBS-BSA for 1 h at 37C and washed as before. Finally, the cells were mounted onto slides in mounting medium with Citifluor (Agar), analyzed by a Nikon E400 epifluorescence microscope equipped with objectives PlanFluor 20x, 40x and photographed. Images were acquired by Nikon Coolpix 990. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 
 O 
 O Immunoblotting Cells grown in confluent monolayer were rinsed twice with cold PBS and solubilized in ice-cold RIPA buffer Triton X-100, 1% deoxycholate, 0.15 M NaCI, pH 7.2) containing COMPLETE cocktail of protease inhibitors (Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Mannheim, Germany) for 30 min on ice. The extracts were collected, cleared by centrifugation at 15 000 rpm for 10 min at 4C and stored at 0 -80 0 C. Protein concentration in extracts was quantified by BCA protein assay Sreagent (Pierce, Rockford, Illinois, USA). 
 C 10 Total cellular extracts (50 pg of proteins/lane) were resolved in 10 SDS- O PAGE gel. The proteins were then transferred onto PVDF membrane (Amersham 
 O 
 CtN Pharmacia Biotech, Little Chalfont Buckinghamshire, England). After blocking in nonfat dry milk with 0.2% Nonidet P40 in PBS, the membrane was probed with MAbs (undiluted hybridoma medium), washed and treated with secondary anti-mouse HRP-conjugated swine antibody diluted 1:5000 (SEVAPHARMA, Prague, Czech Republic). The protein bands were visualized by enhanced chemiluminiscence using ECL kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). 
 Cell biotinylation Cells in monolayer of 70%-80% confluence grown in a 10 cm dish were washed with ice-cold buffer A (20 mM sodium hydrogen carbonate, 0.15 M NaCI, pH Immediately before use, 1 mg of NHS-LC-Biotin (Pierce) was dissolved in 50 Il DMSO, mixed with 4 ml buffer A, added to cells and incubated for 60 minutes at After the biotinylation, the cells were washed 5 times with buffer A and extracted as described above. 
 Immunoprecipitation. 
 Tested MAb in a volume of 1 ml culture medium was bound to 25 pl suspension of protein-A Sepharose (Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden) in RIPA buffer for 2 hrs at RT. Biotinylated cell extract (200 pil) was pre-cleared with 20 il of 50% suspension of protein-A Sepharose and then added to bound MAb. 
 Immunocomplexes collected on protein-A Sepharose were washed according to Williams et al. (1985), boiled 5 minutes in Laemmli loading buffer and separated by SDS-PAGE gel electrophoresis. Afterwards, the proteins were transferred WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M onto PVDF membrane and revealed with peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin O (1:1000, Pierce) followed by ECL. 
 D Biotinylation of MAbs Purified MAbs were labeled with NHS-LC-Biotin (Pierce) according to the instructions of the manufacturer. Briefly, 2 mg purified IgG dissolved in PBS, pH were incubated with 100 pg NHS-LC-Biotin for 2 h on ice. Free biotin was O removed using microconcentrator (PALL Gelman Lab., Wien, Austria) or gel filtration. 
 \O 
 Competitive antibody-binding ELISA o Extract of NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells was adsorbed on microplate wells at a 0 concentration corresponding to 50% of maximal binding of labeled MAbs. Coated plates were washed and saturated with 10% FCS in PBS. Serial tenfold dilutions of purified MAbs in 30 pl and a constant amount of biotinylated MAb in 30 pl were added and incubated overnight at 4 0 C. The plates were washed and peroxidaselabeled streptavidin (Pierce) was used as a detector. 
 RESULTS 
 Generation and basic characterization of monoclonal antibodies to CA IX To avoid an epitope preference caused by the significant difference in the N-terminal sequences of the mouse and human CA IX proteins and produce monoclonal antibodies directed also to other protein regions (Fig.5), we prepared the new CA IX-specific monoclonal antibodies with the CA IX-deficient mice constructed in Example 1 [Ortova Gut (2002)]. It was hypothesized that those mice that do not express their own CA IX protein would recognize the entire human CA IX molecule as non-self and direct their humoral response to different portions of the protein. 
 We examined five immunization protocols based on different combinations of human cells that naturally express high level of CA IX (HT 29), mouse cells with ectopic overexpression of CA IX (NIH 3T3-flCA IX) and finally, recombinant protein composed of glutathion-S transferase fused to CA domain of CA IX (GST-CA). Three protocols led to successful production of CA IX-specific MAbs (Table 3). 
 TABLE 3 WO 03/100029 WO 03/00029PCT/US03/05136 Overview of immunization protocols, lusions and yields of CA IX-specific hybridomas. 
 Fusio Immunization Total Non- MN-specific hybridomas n No. Scheme' No. Specifi Initial Subclone Stable Of Cb No.' d d clones 1.NIH 3T3-fICA IX I p. 50 0 1 0 0 2.NIH 3T3-fICA IX L 3.NIH 3T3-fICA IX I NIH 3T3-fICA IX 11,111 i.p. 1700 50 60 6 0 2.NIH 3T3-fICA IX 
 I.. 
 3.HT-29 ILp. 
 I NIH 3T3-fICA IX IV i.p. 800 40 5 5 4 2.NIH 3T3-fICA IX i. p. 
 3.OCGexNIH-CA IX i.v. 
 I .NIH 3T3-fICA IX V, VI i p. 1220 17 9 6 2 2.NIH 3T3-fICA IX I.p. 
 3.GST-CA IX 
 LI. 
 1.NIH 3T3-fICA IX VII1, i.p. 4400 16 83 12 ViII, 2.HT-29 IX, X i.. 
 3.GST-CA IX i.p. 
 Altogether 8170 123 158 29 11 2Brief description of the immunization scheme including order of injections, type of immunogen and route of administration intraperitoneal, iv. intravenous) Immunogens: NIH 3T3-fICA IX mouse NIH3T3 fibroblasts stably transfected with the wild type CA9 cDNA OCGexNIH-CA IX extract from NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells obtained using OCG detergent S HT-29 human colorectal carcinoma cells naturally expressing MN/CA IX GST-CA IX recombinant bacterial CA domain of MN/CA IX fused to GST b Non-specific hybridomas producing the MAbs against non-CA IX mouse or human cellular proteins of unknown identity O c MN-specific hybridomas that were successfully subcloned d Hybridomas with optimum viability and stable productivity of MN-specific Mabs 
 (N 
 0 Altogether, we performed 10 fusions and screened 8170 hybridomas. 
 Initially selected 158 hybridomas producing CA-IX reactive antibodies in ELISA screening were reduced to 29 hybridomas after subcloning and finally to 11 viable and stable clones after freezing-refreezing. Seven of these antibodies were of IgG2a isotype, two antibodies were IgG1 and two were of IgM isotype (Table 4). 
 TABLE 4 Summary of the isotypes and reactivity of the new CA IX-specific monoclonal antibodies in comparison with Antigen N, HT, HT, HL, HT, HL, M? M, HT G M Mab Isotype ELISA Blotting Precipitation Fluorescence IgG2b IV/6 IgM nd IV/18 IgG2a IV/14 IgM nd nd IV/11 IgG1 IgG2a V/12 IgG2a VII/13 IgG1 IgG2a VII/28 IgG2a VI1/32 IgG2a VII/38 IgG2a Reactivity of the new Mabs including M75 for comparison was examined using the 
 O 
 S following antigens: N extract from transfected mouse NIH 3T3-flCA IX cells expressing human CA IX i protein in parallel with corresponding NIH 3T3-neo as negative control HT extract from human HT-29 cells naturally expressing high level of CA IX S HL extract from human HeLa cells naturally expressing CA IX in dense culture G recombinant GST-flCA IX fusion protein Cn M transfected MDCK-flCA IX cells compared to MDCK-neo controls The antibodies were first tested in ELISA against the full-length CA IX antigen expressed in mouse and human cell lines. All antibodies bound to extracts of NIH 3T3-CA IX cells and HT-29 cells, but not to control NIH 3T3-neo cells and C33a CA IX-negative human cervical carcinoma cells. They also recognized GST-CA IX protein, but not the GST only, supporting their specificity for CA IX (Table TABLE Target domains of the CA IX-specific monoclonal antibodies based on the reactivity to truncated forms of CA IX PGCA PG ACA ACA APG Antigen Target Mab ELISA Precipitation Fluorescence domain Nd PG IV/18 Nd PG 
 CA 
 V/12 CA VI1/20 CA VIl/28 CA VII/32 CA VI1/38 CA WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 'm Domain-specificity of the monoclonal antibodies was determinea withi the [dliIrl'ig 
 O 
 0 antigens: PGCA N-terminal portion of CA IX molecule containing both PG and CA domains expressed as GST-PGCA fusion protein PG PG domain expressed as GST-PG fusion protein CA CA domain expressed as GST-CA fusion protein ACA truncated variant of CA IX protein expressed in MDCK cells from 0 transfected cDNA with deletion in a region encoding CA domain 
 \O 
 APG truncated variant of CA IX protein expressed in MDCK cells from S 10 transfected cDNA with deletion in a region encoding PG domain 
 O 
 CtN Indirect immunofluorescence demonstrated that all the examined antibodies bound to an antigen localized at the cell surface of transfected polarized epithelial cells MDCK as well as of HT-29 human colon carcinoma cells that naturally express CA IX. [The cells were grown to confluence, fixed by methanol and incubated with representative monoclonal antibodies followed by FITC-conjugated anti-mouse antibodies. All the antibodies revealed plasma membrane CA IX-specific staining in both cell lines used. Cells with omitted primary antibody and treated only by the secondary antibody served as a negative control.] Distribution of the staining signal was identical to distribution of CA IX visualized by Noteworthy, only two of the new Mabs, namely IV/6 and IV/18, and the old Mab M75 reacted in immunoblotting with naturally expressed CA IX derived from HT-29 and HeLa cells, respectively, and with CA IX ectopically expressed in MDCK cells. The antibodies of lgG2 isotype were all able to immunoprecipitate CA IX from the extract of both HT-29 and HeLa human cells labeled by biotinylation. [The cells were grown to confluence, labeled by biotin, and extracted with RIPA buffer. CA IX was immunoprecipitated from the cell extracts as described in Materials and Methods, separated by SDS-PAGE, and blotted. Blots were incubated with peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin and developed by ECL. They also immunoprecipitated the CA IX protein ectopically expressed in MDCK cells. 
 Determination of target domains by antibody binding to recombinant variants of CA IX 100 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 m The initial tests proved the reactivity of the new monoclonal antibodies 
 O 
 0 towards human CA IX. To reveal the target protein domains, we selected the antibodies with the best properties and performed additional series of analyses using Srecombinant variants of CA IX protein produced in bacteria and variants of CA IX protein expressed from truncated cDNAs transfected to NIH 3T3 and MDCK cells, respectively. [Immunofluorescence detection of CA IX and its deletion variants APG and ACA expressed in transfected MDCK cells was used. The cells were grown to 0 confluence, fixed by methanol and incubated with new monoclonal antibodies followed by FITC-conjugated anti-mouse antibodies. The antibodies revealed plasma C 10 membrane CA IX-specific staining only in the cells expressing CA IX variant 0 containing their target domain.] The results summarized in Table 5 indicate that one 
 O 
 CN of the newly produced antibodies, namely IV/18, is directed to PG domain, simlar to The other six antibodies V/10, V/12, VII/20, VII/28, VII/32 and Vll/38) target the CA domain, as also confirmed by their capacity to immunoprecipitate the full-length CA IX protein, but not its deletion variant lacking a large portion of CA domain. [CA IX was immunoprecipitated from extracts of MDCK cells expressing the full length CA IX protein and its ACA variant, respectively. The cells were grown to confluence, labeled by biotin, and extracted with RIPA buffer. 
 CA IX was immunoprecipitated from the cell extracts as described in Materials and Methods, separated by SDS-PAGE, and blotted. Blots were incubated with peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin and developed by ECL.] In fact, these reagents represent a proof-of-concept that CA IX-deficient mice are suitable for generation of monoclonal antibodies that recognize the regions outside the immunodominant PG domain. 
 Mapping of anticenic sites by competitive binding In order to determine relative positions of the antigenic sites, recognized by the monoclonal antibodies within their target domains, we performed a competitive-binding assay. Biotin-labeled purified antibodies were allowed to bind in the concurrent presence of increasing amount of the non-labeled competitive antibodies. Extent of binding of the labeled antibody in the presence of the nonlabeled competitor was expressed as per cent of the binding in the absence of the WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 ee competitor. Examination of all different pairs of the MAbs including the homologous O ones and their classification according to the extent of competition allowed for N elaboration of a basic map indicating principal relationships between the antibodies, their clustering and relationships between the clusters (Fig. The map shows that the M75 and IV/18 antibodies recognize overlapping antigenic sites in a separate C region, consistent with their proven specificity for the PG domain of CA IX protein. 
 The antibodies targeting CA domain form three clusters. Two pairs of the MAbs, O namely V/12 versus VII/20 and V/10 versus VII/32, respectively, showed significant mutual competitions indicating their overlapping epitopes within two separable S 10 antigenic sites. However, strong one-sided competition between one member of S each of two antigenic site-related clusters, i.e. V/10 (label) and V/12 (competitor), 0 indicated that the two sites partially extend over each other via the epitopes corresponding to V/10 and V/12 MAbs. MAb VII/38 belongs to a distinct site within a CA domain of CA IX. 
 The map of antigenic sites provides important information that can be further utilized to propose non-competing pairs of antibodies that would be suitable for sensitive immunodetection of CA IX antigen using capture-detection approaches. 
 DISCUSSION 
 Due to a strong association with cancer tissues and proposed functional involvement in tumor progression, carbonic anhydrase IX has become an interesting object for both basic and clinical research, as evidenced by the growing number of CA IX-related papers [summarized in Pastorek and Pastorekova (2003)]. 
 Most of these papers were based on the utilization of a CA IX-specific monoclonal antibody M75 [Pastorekova et al. (1992)]. The M75 MAb has facilitated acquisition of many important data, but certain aspects of CA IX could not be touched without additional detection tools, including the monoclonal antibodies directed to independent antigenic sites. 
 We describe herein the generation of such antibodies using a mice deficient for CA IX as donors of immune splenocytes for fusion and hybridoma production. This strategy has been chosen in order to eliminate the epitope preference possibly related to a high regional homology between the mouse and human proteins particularly in the sequences outside the M75 target domain [Ortova Gut et al. (2002)]. Our assumption that the mice lacking CA IX would recognise also 102 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M these regions as a non-self has been approved by the production ot six monoclonal 
 O 
 O antibodies directed to CA domain of CA IX. Interestingly, the immunization protocol that led to successful generation of the anti-CA antibodies involved the injection of a d recombinant CA IX variant containing only the CA domain as a key third dose component. Instead, injection with the full-length CA IX antigen extracted from the c transfected NIH 3T3 cells resulted in production of antibodies out of which MAb IV/18 competes with M75, and two other antibodies (IV/6 and IV/14) also appear to bind to 0 the PG region, similar to M75. This experience suggests that even in the absence of 
 LO 
 endogenous mouse CA IX protein that would normally compromise the immune C 10 recognition of highly homologous regions of human CA IX (including the CA domain) 0 by the immunized mice, the M75 MAb-binding PG domain behaves as strongly 
 O 
 0C immunodominant. The reason for the apparent immunodominance could reside in both N-terminal exposition and the amino acid sequence of the PG domain that is highly acidic and composed of four perfect and two imperfect hexameric repeats [Opavsky et al. (1996)]. These repetitions potentially offer multiple binding sites (and may influence also relative affinity of MAbs) and the very N-terminal position of this region may allow for its spatial protrusion from the presumably globular CA domain in the extracellular portion of CA IX [Pastorek et al. (1994)]. 
 These attributes of PG domain may also explain the finding that anti- PG MAbs recognize denatured CA IX protein in immunoblotting, while anti-CA MAbs fail to do so. It is possible to speculate, that relatively short PG domain with repetitive motifs constitutes a linear antigenic region that does not suffer from denaturing, while a presumably globular structure of the large CA domain carrying putative conformational epitopes can be completely disrupted. This idea is consistent with the finding that both anti-PG and anti-CA are able to immunoprecipitate native CA IX antigen extracted with mild detergents as well as the antigen on the surface of transfected MDCK cells that were fixed by methanol. Such antigen apparently possesses intact epitopes irrespective of whether they are linear or conformational. 
 As delineated by the competitive immunoassay performed with the repertoire of the new MAbs, CA domain contains three distinct antigenic sites, two of which partially overlap. While it is possible to propose relative mutual positions of these sites, it is difficult to predict their localization on CA domain. Based on the extent of the deletion that was associated with the loss of binding of these MAbs we WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 cn can at least conclude that the CA antigenic region spans the amino acids 166-397 
 O 
 O (SEQ ID NO: 105) of CA IX. However, it cannot be excluded, that the deletion lead to disconnection of the antigenic site(s) partly located also on the amino acids 135- 166 (SEQ ID NO: 106) that remained preserved in the ACA deletion variant. 
 Characteristics of the new CA IX-specific monoclonal antibodies allow (Nl us to foresee their clinical applications. In the basic research, these antibodies Srepresent important specific reagents for study of functional contribution of PG and CA domains, respectively. Each of these two extracellular domains of CA IX has Sbeen associated with different aspects of tumor progression: enzymatically active S 10 CA domain is thought to contribute to acidification of tumor microenvironment and O PG domain (absent from other CA isoforms) is believed to determine its participation 
 O 
 (tN in adhesion-related processes. Using the MAbs generated as disclosed herein in CA IX-deficient mice, it will be possible to differentiate between biological effects exerted by these domains expressed separately in the form of deletion variants or mutants of CA IX. 
 Nevertheless, the main potential of the new MAbs is in their clinical applications. Many clinical studies of different tumor tissues have recently demonstrated predictive and prognostic value of CA IX, especially related to its tight connection with tumor hypoxia [Loncaster et al. (2001); Chia et al. (2001); Giatromanolaki et al. (2001); Koukourakis et al. (2001); Hui et al. (2002)]. In this respect, it is obvious that the new MAbs can be utilized for detection and/or targeting of CA IX-expressing cancer cells in different settings (as reviewed in von Mehren et al, 2003). Future experiments designed to examine the biological activity of these MAbs will also show, whether they could be of any significance for antibodymediated anti-cancer therapy, analogously to well-known MAbs directed to HER- 2/neu/c-erbB2 and EGFR oncoproteins. Also importantly, the availability of noncompeting antibodies specific for distinct antigenic sites on two separate extracellular domains offers an opportunity to elaborate a sensitive assay that could be particularly important for detection of CA IX in body fluids of cancer patients. As disclosed herein and detailed in Example 3 below the extracellular portion of CA IX is shed from tumor cell surfaces and can be detected in body fluids, particularly blood and urine of cancer carriers by immunoprecipitation. Development of a fast and reliable micro-assay based on combination of the antibodies described in this work could potentially allow for non-invasive monitoring of cancer patients. 
 0 In summary, the anti-human CA IX monoclonal antibodies generated using CA IX-deficient mice and characterized in this paper, represent important tools S for improvement of our knowledge on structure-function relationship in CA IX molecule, for better understanding of CA IX role in cancer development, for S elucidating its clinical implications and for clinically relevant detection of CA IX in biological materials. 
 SEXAMPLES 3-10 
 (N 
 0 The following materials and methods were used in the Examples 3-10 below. 
 MATERIALS AND METHODS Cell and tumor cultures and media The cell line HT29 (DSMZ ACC299), derived from colorectal carcinoma, and A498 (ATCC No. HTB-44) from renal clear cell carcinoma, were grown in D-MEM supplied with 10% FCS (Gibco), unless otherwise stated. In Example 8, the HT29 cells were cultivated in Dulbecco's MEM medium (BioWhittaker, Verviers, Belgium) supplemented with 10% FCS (BioWhittaker) and 160g/ml gentamicin (Lek, Slovenia). The A549 lung carcinoma cells were grown in DMEM (Sigma) supplemented with 10% FCS (Globepharm), L-glutamine (2pM), penicillin (50 IU/ml), and streptomycin sulphate (50 pg/ml). Cell cultures were maintained in a humidified atmosphere with 5% CO 2 at 37 0 C. For short-term cultures of tumors, fresh tumor excisions were cut in 1 mm pieces, rinsed with PBS, suspended in D-MEM with 10% FCS (about 50 -100 mg of fresh weight of tumor fragments in 5 ml of the medium) and incubated in 5 cm Petri dishes at 370C in a  
 CO 
 2 incubator. Cell lysis buffer: PBS with 1% Igepal CA-630 (Sigma), 0.25 deoxicholate and proteinase inhibitors [Zavada et al. (2000)]. 
 Effect of reoxyqenation of hypoxically induced CA IX protein tissue culture Studies of gene expression were performed on A549 lung carcinoma cells approaching confluence in normal growth medium. Parallel incubations were performed on aliquots of cells in normoxia (humidified air with 5% C0 2 and hypoxia. 
 105 Hypoxic conditions were generated in a Napco 7001 incubator (Precision Scientific) with 0.1% 02, 5% CO2, and balance N 2 Reoxygenation experiments were performed 0 by exposure of cells to hypoxia for 16 h followed by a return to normoxia for the indicated time. 
 Patient serum and urine SAll patients routinely underwent ultrasound and CT before surgery to S obtain information for the standard staging protocol. Serum and urine from these S patients were obtained before surgery and 5 days after it. In some patients a sample 0 of tumour tissue after nephrectomy was used for short-term RCC cultures. In all these patients the diagnosis was confirmed by the histological finding of RCC. 18 patients acted as controls, these had been admitted to the hospital for other urological conditions than RCC (infectious disease, urinary stones, other urological tumours, etc.). The study was approved by the Departmental Ethics Committee. 
 Sera of healthy blood donors were kindly provided by Dr. Eva HamSikova, Institute of Haematology and Blood Transfusion, Prague. 
 Blood plasma from nude mice with xenograft of HT29 cells Male nude mice CD-1 nu/nu (Charles River, Germany) were injected subcutaneously in the flank with 5x105 HT29 cells at 6-8 weeks of age. 
 Approximately 2-3 weeks after injection, heparinized plasma samples were prepared; blood was drawn from either the eye or by heart puncture prior to mouse dissection and xenograft removal. 
 Immunological reagents and methods Monoclonal antibodies: M75 specific for PG region of CA IX has been produced by Pastorekova et al. (1992); V-10 specific for CA domain generated as described in Example 2. The isotype of MAb M75 is IgG 2b and of V-10 is IgG 2a. 
 The IgG was purified from hybridoma TC fluid by affinity chromatography as before protein A Sepharose CL-4B column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden). Purity of the M75 was checked by SDS-PAGE [(Zavada et al. (2000)]. 
 was labeled by 1251 using chloramines T method as described by Hunter (1978). Free 1251 was removed by the size exclusion chromatography on 106 Sephadex G50 column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). Specific activity of the radiolabeled antibody was determined after the precipitation of the antibody together 0 with BSA carrier protein by trichloroacetic acid. 
 To determine the immunoreactive fraction, 10 4 cpm of 1 25 1-M75 in 100 pl of PBS containing 3% BSA and 0.05% Tween-20 were added to wells of 96-well D plates coated with increasing amounts of antigen extracted from HT29 cells and incubated for 2 hours at 370C. The bound radioactivity was measured after washings S and lysis with 2M NaOH, using the Clinigamma counter from Pharmacia LKB S (Uppsala, Sweden). Nonspecific binding was determined in the presence of 100-fold molar excess of unlabeled M75 and subtracted from the total binding. The results were analyzed as described by Lindmo et al. (1984). 
 For the concentration of immune complexes formed by the MAbs with CA IX antigen from TC media or cell extracts Protein A-Sepharose (Sigma P-9424) was used; the MAb-CA IX complexes from human sera or urine were adsorbed to anti-mouse IgG-Agarose (Sigma #A-6531). Alternatively, we used Magnetic beads anti-mouse IgG (Immunotech-Coulter 1181). The immunoperoxidase conjugate was prepared using the Peroxidase labeling kit (Roche Diagnostics #1829696, GmBH, Mannheim, Germany.) Immunoprecipitation of s-CA IX from mouse blood plasma and cell culture medium was performed as follows: A confluent monolayer of HT29 cells was washed with PBS and fresh medium was applied (15ml per 10 cm dish). After 18 h incubation, the medium was harvested and filtered through a 0.22 pm-pore-size filter. 
 Samples of cell culture medium and heparinized plasma were preincubated with protein A-Sepharose CL-4B (Pharmacia Biotech) to remove potentially competing calf and mouse IgG prior to immunoprecipitation with M75. Immunoprecipitation was performed from 1ml of heparinized plasma (diluted 1:2 with PBS) and from 3 ml of cell culture media by incubation with 50 pl of suspension of protein A-Sepharose with bound M75 Mab for 2 h at room temperature with gentle rotation. 
 Immunoprecipitation of s-CA IX from human sera and urine was carried out as follows: to 0.75 ml of serum or 10 ml of urine (both clarified by centrifugation) was added 2 pg of M75 IgG for 60 min. at room temperature. Following this, each sample was supplied with 50 pl of 50% pre-washed anti-mouse IgG Agarose beads and the suspension was agitated on a rotator for 4 hours or overnight at 4 o C. 
 Then the beads with bound mouse IgG and immune complexes were centrifuged 107 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M (1200 rpm/2 min.), the pellet was resuspended in 1 ml PBS-T (phrospnate Durrerea 
 O 
 O saline with 0.05% Tween 20, Sigma) centrifuged as above and the beads were C heated in 60 pl of Laemmli sample buffer at 100 0 C for 5 min. blood sera. The Sprecipitates, when analysed by Western blots developed with conjugate and ECL, in addition to s-CA IX p50/54 were showing strong non-specific l bands of 92 and 125 kDa. These cross-reactive proteins were present also in control human sera. 
 O We were able to eliminate the non-specific bands by using two different 
 LO 
 monoclonal antibodies. For immunoprecipitation MAb V-10 specific for the CA C| 10 domain was employed, while M75-peroxidase conjugate, specific for PG domain, o was used for developing the blots. Only the lanes loaded with precipitate obtained 
 O 
 N with M75 show, in addition to CA IX bands at 50 and 54 kD, also the cross-reaction with human serum proteins of 92 and 128 kDa. The lanes employing new MAbs for immunopreciipitation showed no cross-reaction visible on the scan or the film. 
 A second problem encountered with CA IX immunoprecipitated from human sera was that Western blots looked dirty or obscured by smears and clouds. 
 We suspected that this was due to a partial denaturation of M75-lgG during conjugation with peroxidase, using HPLC we found that M75 IgG which had been conjugated with activated peroxidase under conditions recommended by the manufacturer formed oligomers several times larger than corresponding to 5 Px molecules for 1 IgG. Therefore, we reduced the Px:lgG ratio 3x and obtained the conjugate yielding a clear background on Western blots with immunoprecipitate from human sera. 
 Immunohistochemistry CA IX immunostaining using monoclonal antibody M75 in Example 9 was as described for example in Wykoff et al. (2000)]. Slides were viewed by two observers. The CA IX score was derived from the product of the percentage of tumor cells staining for CA IX and (ii) the average intensity of that staining on a scale of 1 (least intense) to 3. 
 108 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 
 SELISA 
 O The "sandwich" was composed of these layers in MaxiSorp strips or plates (NUNC, Denmark): immobilized phase: MAb V-10 IgG, 5pg/ml in 50 mM Scarbonate buffer pH 9.6, was adsorbed 3 h at room temperature; test antigen dilutions in PBS with 1% FCS were adsorbed overnight at +4 o C; Cl conjugate 1:5000 in PBS with 1% FCS, was allowed to bind for 2 hr. at room temperature; orthophenylene diamine (OPD, Sigma) 1 mg/ml in 100 mM O phosphate/citrate buffer pH 5.0 1 pl/ml of 30% H 2 0 2 (Sigma), was allowed to react 30 min. in the dark at room temperature. After each step the strips or plates were Cl 0 washed 4x with PBS-T. 
 O 
 O 
 Cl Immunoblots SDS-PAGE and Western blotting were as described before [Zavada et al. (2000)]. Whole cell protein extracts were prepared from tissue culture cells by s homogenization in denaturing conditions [Wiesener et al. (1998)]. Aliquots were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and transferred to Immobilon- P membranes (ImmobilonTM-P, Millipore, Bedford, UK). CA IX was detected using the mouse monoclonal anti-human CA IX antibody M75 (1:50) as described [(Pastorekeva et al. (1992)]. For Examples 3-7 and 10, HRP-conjugated goat-antimouse immunoglobulin (DAKO) (1:2000) was applied for 1 h at room temperature ECL Plus (Amersham Pharmacia) was used for visualization. For Example 8, the cells (cell monolayer and sediment of tumor homogenates, respectively) were extracted by RIPA buffer Triton X-100, 0.1% sodium deoxycholate, 1mM PMSF, pg/ml trypsin inhibitor, 1mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid in PBS) for 30 min at room temperature. The extracts were then centrifuged (15 min at 13,000 rpm) and concentration of proteins was determined by BCA assay (Pierce) according to the manufacturer's instruction. The extracts (aliquots containing 30g of proteins) were directly analyzed. Culture medium and plasma were first concentrated by immunoprecipitation with M75 Mab as described above. Samples were separated by electrophoresis on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel, blotted onto the membrane as described above. The membrane was incubated with 125 -labeled M75 Mab and then exposed to X-ray film. 
 109 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 EXAMPLE 3 O Cell-associated and soluble CA IX in cell cultures 
 O 
 C Western blot analysis was performed to determine CA IX in culture media (soluble CA IX) or in cell extracts (cell-associated CA IX), as described above. 
 S 5 As previously described, various human tumor cell lines, when grown to a high density, produce CA IX seen on Western blots as a "twin" protein p54/58 [Pastorekova et al. (1992); Zavada et al., (1993)]. Present results are consistent with \these reports: cell extracts from the colorectal carcinoma cell line HT29 show 54 and 
 O 
 O 58 kDa bands of CA IX on the Western blot. Media from these cell cultures also contain CA IX, but the soluble form is somewhat shorter, with 2 bands of 50 and 54 m kDa. The total content of CA IX in cell extracts is about 10x higher than in the 
 O 
 O medium, as determined by ELISA (Fig. EXAMPLE 4 CA IX in tumor extracts and in media of short-term cultures of RCC The study included 50 patients (28 men and 22 women, mean age 63.2, range 36-79) with newly diagnosed RCC. Western blots of the extracts from RCC tumors resemble blots of tumor cell cultures. They also contain two bands of 54 and 58 kDa, and the proportion of CA IX per total protein is somewhat lower than in HT29 cells (Fig. 10). All of the 6 RCC tumor extracts were strongly CA IX positive. 
 Control kidneys and a non-RCC tumor, an angiolipoma, do not contain any CA IX. 
 Shedding of s-CA IX was examined in short-term cultures: fresh tumor excisions from the patients were cut in 1 mm pieces and grown in short-term cultures in DMEM with 10% FCS, as described above. The medium from a suspension culture of tumor fragments was harvested after 2 days and analysed by Western blotting and ELISA (Fig. 10). Again, both the concentration and Mr of s-CA IX were comparable (two bands of 50 and 54 kDa) with cultures of the tumor cell line HT29. 
 EXAMPLE Recovery of CA IX 50 and 58 kDa bands from diluted HT29 cell extract or TC medium The concentration of CA IX in blood serum and in urine of RCC patients is too low to be detected without previous concentration. Therefore, we first WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 r n tested how efficiently CA IX can be immunoprecipitated from cell extracts or TC 
 O 
 O media of HT29 cells. 
 (Ni Immunoprecipitation was performed as described above. The result was somewhat puzzling. Original HT29 cell extract or TC medium contained 2 bands of CA IX. However, after addition of M75 antibody followed by PA-Sepharose 
 (~N 
 beads and a low speed centrifugation, no CA IX was detected in the supernatant and Q all of the CA IX antigen was present in the pellet. Surprisingly, it was seen only as a single band of 54 kDa, no matter whether it was from cell extract (cell-associated CA IX) or from the medium (soluble CA IX). The other band disappeared. When the S 10 pellets were mixed with corresponding supernatants, the lost bands appeared again 0 in their original intensity. For the re-appearance of the lost band, it was sufficient to 
 O 
 (tN add FCS to a final concentration of This observation suggests that FCS (or various other proteins) is providing some sort of steric support for CA IX on Western blots. In this experiment, the p54 band did not disappear after adding the MAb and Protein A Sepharose and centrifugation, most likely because on migration in PAGE it overlaps with denatured heavy chain of M75 IgG. Since this observation, we have added 1.5% FCS to Laemmli sample buffer for extracting of CA IX from the immunoprecipitates and for diluting the samples before gel electrophoresis and Western blotting. We conclude that the sensitive detection of CA IX antigens on Western blots requires the presence of other "contaminating" proteins which do not cross-react with CA IX. 
 EXAMPLE 6 CA IX in blood serum of RCC patients As described in Examples 3-5, there were no problems with detection and quantitation of CA IX protein in extracts from cells or tumors and in culture media. The concentration of CA IX was sufficient for direct analysis by Western blotting or by ELISA. Control cell extracts or media showed no false positivity or nonspecific bands. 
 The difficulties emerged when we started to test human blood sera. 
 The concentration of CA IX was too low and the concentration of normal blood serum proteins was too high to allow direct gel separation. Therefore, we prepared immunoprecipitates from control and patients' sera using M75, followed by antimouse IgG agarose beads. The precipitates, when analysed by Western blots WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M developed with M75-peroxidase conjugate and ECL, in addition to the s-CA IX O p 5 0 54 bands showed strong non-specific bands of 92 and 125 kDa. These cross- CN reactive proteins were present also in control human sera. 
 d Fortunately, we were able to eliminate the non-specific bands by using two different monoclonal antibodies, as described above. For immunoprecipitation N' MAb V-10 specific for the CA domain was employed, while conjugate, specific for PG domain, was used for developing the blots. 
 Q We tested 30 samples of sera from RCC patients, 14 sera of patients with tumors other than RCC, 6 sera of non-tumor patients suffering from various NJ 10 urological diseases and 42 sera of healthy blood donors. Sera evaluated as positive o were found mainly in the RCC group. Out of total 30 RCC sera, 12 scored as 0 "positive" The RCC group included 1 sarcomatous RCC, which was CA IX positive. Among 14 non-RCC tumor patients, 1 was positive (papillary carcinoma). 
 There does not seem to be a clear correlation between tumor size and the presence or concentration of CA IX in the serum. All sera evaluated as "negative," including sera of healthy blood donors, did in fact show an extremely weak 50 kDa band of s-CA IX, which became well visible only after prolonged exposure of the blots. 
 For Western blot analysis of soluble CA IX protein in blood sera of RCC patients and of control individuals, each lane was loaded with immunoprecipitate corresponding to the original 0.6 ml of the serum. Sera samples were from three healthy blood donors: a patient (100) who had stones in the urether; patients with non-RCC tumors: (39) papillary carcinoma from renal cells, (103) urothelial tumor of renal pelvis, (121) sarcomatoid renal carcinoma; all other samples, RCC (the largest are No. 68, 2350 cm 3 No. 36, 1466 cm 3 No.50, 725 cm 3 and the smallest, No. 102, 9 cm 3 No. 112, 14 cm 3 To obtain more support for presumed origin of blood s-CA IX from the tumors, we tested several paired sera from RCC patients before and after nephrectomy. Indeed, in 3 cases the sera after operation contained much less of s- CA IX than corresponding pre-operation sera. One exception was patient No. 68, showing an increase of s-CA IX level but this patient underwent only a palliative operation. Only a moderate decrease of s-CA IX was seen in the patient No. 104; in his case the post-operative sample was taken only 1 day after nephrectomy, 112 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M whereas in all other patients the post-operative samples were obtained 7 days after 0 0 operation. 
 EXAMPLE 7 S 5 CA IX in urine of RCC patients N The RCC patients (see Example 6 above) excrete s-CA IX protein in urine. For obvious reasons, we could afford to concentrate the antigen from 10 ml of 0 urine (or from larger volumes if needed), and load 1 lane on the gel with an aliquot corresponding to 8 ml. For the Western blot analysis, the non-tumor patients Nos. 
 N' 10 45 and 48 had stones in the urether; non-RCC tumor patients No. 28 and 57 had 0 angiolipoma and No. 39 had a papillary carcinoma. All other samples were from patients with RCC (largest tumors were No. 36, 1466 cm 3 No. 50, 725 cm 3 the smallest, No. 44, 1 cm 3 No. 60, 12 cm 3 and No. 38, 14 cm 3 Our results show that a relatively high percentage (19/27 70%) of the patients excrete CA IX in urine. The Mr of the s-CA IX protein is about the same as in blood (see Example In some of the urine samples, there is an additional band of intermediate size. In two strongly positive samples (No. 50 and 54) there is an additional band of 62 kDa. Control specimens of urine from 25 healthy persons, 2 non-tumor and from 3 non-RCC tumor urology patients were all CA IX negative. 
 As shown in Examples 3 and 4, shedding of CA IX is moderately efficient. Two days after media exchange, the medium contains about 10% of the total amount of CA IX compared with the cell monolayer (Fig. 10). On the other hand, the concentration of s-CA IX in the blood of RCC patients, even if they carry very large tumors, is approximately 1000 x lower than in TC media (Table This shows that s-CA IX is rapidly cleared from the blood. There may be several mechanisms of clearance. We have demonstrated one of them: excretion in the urine without any major degradation. Concentration of the s-CA IX in urine corresponds approximately to the antigen in blood. Possibly, some of CA IX could be degraded to smaller fragments; we are aware of the existence of CA IX-related polypeptides of 20-30 kDa lacking the PG domain. But their sensitive detection and quantification will require optimizing the conditions of assays, probably double antibody sandwich assays using CA IX-specific mabs to the CA domain. Two urine samples Nos. 50 and 54 contain a larger protein of 62 kDa, reacting with MAb 113 Significance of this larger protein is not clear; it was not found in the blood or in tumor extract from the same patient. 
 0 z The data on CA IX concentration in biological materials tested in Examples 3-7 are summarized in Table 6 below. 
 TABLE 6 Concentration of CA IX in biological materials C HT29 cell extract 4 mg/g total protein Fresh RCC extract 0.5 2 mg/g total protein N Normal kidney extract not detectable HT29 TC medium 100 ng/ml RCC TC media 100 ng/ml Sera of RCC patients 20 pg 3.6 ng/ml Control sera 5 25 pg/ml Urine of RCC patients 20 pg 3 ng/ml Control urine 0 -2 pg/ml 5 cm Petri dish corresponds to 5 ml of medium or to 0.5 mg total protein extracted from cell monolayer. 
 There is a wide range of concentrations observed. The results for cell and tumor extracts and for TC media are based on ELISA. The CA IX concentration in blood sera and in urine was determined by densitometric reading of films exposed with Western blots and calculated by a comparison with included calibration with HT29 medium, titrated in ELISA. All the blots must be taken only as approximate, due to high biological variability (density-dependent expression of CA IX in cell cultures, volume of fluids consumed by the patients before providing the urine for CA IX determination). Western blots are only a semi-quantitative method and there exists no clear-cut borderline between "normal" and "elevated" concentrations of the antigen. 
 EXAMPLE 8 Soluble Form of CA IX in medium of HT29 culture and in serum of nude mice with a xenoaraft of HT29 cells 114 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 3 The appearance of soluble CA IX in the medium of HT29 culture and in N the serum of nude mice with a xenograft of HT29 cells were compared [Chrastina et Sal. in press (2003)]. In this experiment, we used athymic nude mice xenografted with S 5 HT29 human colorectal carcinoma, as described above. Western blotting using 1251_ M75 mab showed the level of CA IX in xenograft and in HT29 culture in vitro. 
 Soluble CA IX shedded to culture medium and to blood plasma was first O concentrated by immunoprecipitation and then subjected to Western blotting 
 O 
 LO analysis. 
 r- Western blot analysis showed that in vivo expression of CA IX in the Mn HT29 xenograft was lower than in culture, possibly due to presence of CA IX- 
 O 
 0 negative stroma surrounding the tumor parenchyma as well as to in situ heterogeneity of expression in the tumor cells as mentioned above. In addition, a subpopulation of CA IX molecules with the size corresponding to the extracellular portion of the protein (s-CA IX) was detectable in both culture medium and blood circulation as a result of antigen shedding from the cell membrane. 
 EXAMPLE 9 Expression of CA IX in bladder cancer sections The expression pattern of CA IX in superficial and invasive bladder cancers has been compared by immunohistochemical methods [Turner et al., Br. J. 
 Cancer, 86:1276-1282(2002)]. The expression of CA IX was enhanced in bladder cancer specimens, greater in superficial than invasive tumors, confirming CA IX as a possible marker to detect urinary tract tumors. 
 Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens collected by standard surgical oncology procedures were obtained from the Pathology Department, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK. Samples of normal bladder were taken from cadaveric organ donors at the time of nephroureterectomy. 
 CA IX expression was evaluated by immunochemistry in 22 cases on serial sections (Table as described above. These 22 cases were selected to represent the range of stage and grade in human bladder tumors, and in two samples of normal bladder. In 17 cases, CA IX was expressed maximally on the luminal surface of tumors and around regions of necrosis in invasive tumors. In addition, while both superficial and invasive tumors showed luminal enhancement, WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 m this was much more marked in superficial tumors. CA IX was not detected in normal 
 O 
 0 bladder specimens, nor was it detected in samples from the patient with isolated 
 CIS. 
 The high frequency and marked enhancement of CA IX expression in superficial bladder cancer in this experiment, combined with the relative absence in 
 C 
 normal transitional epithelium, and the fact that CA IX is a transmembrane protein, suggests that measurement of shed protein in the urine could be a potential marker O of recurrence. 
 CO 
 O 
 O Cl WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 
 O 
 0 TABLE 7 Expression of CA IX protein in human bladder cancer Patient Tumor stage/grade CA IX immunostaining 1 CIS -ve 2 Ta G1 luminal O 3 Ta G1 luminal 4 Ta G2 luminal 5 T1 G1 luminal c 6 T1 G2 luminal 
 O 
 0 7 T1 G2 luminal 8 T1 G2 luminal 9 T1 G2 luminal 10 T2 G2 luminal and perinecrotic 11 T2 G2 luminal and invasive tumor 12 T2 G3 luminal 13 T2 G3 luminal 14 T2 G3 luminal but sparse 15 T2 G2, CIS in perinecrotic CIS-ve separate biopsy 16 T2 G2, CIS in perinecrotic CIS weakly separate biopsy positive 17 T2 G2 luminal and perinecrotic 18 T2 G3 luminal and perinecrotic 19 T2 G3 invasive tumor T2 G3, CIS in luminal and perinecrotic separate biopsy CIS -ve 21 T3 G3 -ve 22 T4 G3, CIS in luminal, CIS weakly positive separate biopsy *In serial sections expression of CA IX was assessed by immunochemistry using monoclonal antibody EXAMPLE Temporal relationship of CA IX expression to hypoxia and reoxyvenation O Hypoxically-induced CA IX protein was shown to be present in tissue culture for 72 hours, even after reoxygenation, further supporting its potential Susefulness as a biomarker [Turner et al., (2002)]. Previously hypoxic induction of CA IX in invasive bladder cancer cell lines had not been detected [Wykoff et al. (2000)], which is consistent with the observation of the low level of CA IX expression in S invasive tumors. There appears to be no currently available cell lines derived from S superficial human bladder tumors. For those reasons, the A549 lung carcinoma cell )line, which shows marked hypoxic induction of the CA9 gene, was chosen for this experiment. Western blot analysis of expression of CA IX protein in A549 lung carcinoma cells was performed after growth under hypoxic conditions and then subsequent reoxygenation. Levels of CA IX protein detected remained constant for at least 72 h, indicating that the protein may persist in tissues for a relatively long period of time. 
 Example 11 Comparison of CA IX Expression in Normal, Benign and Malignant Breast Tissues with ER, C-erbB-2 (HER-2/neu), C-erbB3 and CD44 Expression MATERIALS AND METHODS Tissue specimens Breast tissue specimens were obtained from 111 patients (mean age 50.4 years, ranging from 19 to 82) during surgical treatment (KP) at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology II, School of Medicine, Comenius University, Bratislava, in 1998-1999. The patients had not received anti-tumour treatment before surgery. Portions of all tissues were fixed in formaldehyde, embedded in paraffin wax and processed for routine histopathology. The specimens were divided into two overlapping groups, so that the tissues of 36 patients were analysed by IHC only, the tissues of 36 patients were subjected to both IHC and RT-PCR, and the tissues of 39 patients were used for RT-PCR only. IHC was performed using the paraffin-embedded specimens. For RT-PCR, fresh tissues were snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 0 C until used for RNA extraction. 
 118 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Histopatholoqy o Histopathological evaluation of tissues was performed independently. 
 0 The diagnosis was assessed separately for the sections subjected to IHC and for the Sspecimens corresponding to tissues analysed by RT-PCR. The tissues were classified according to the WHO classification (World Health Organization 1981) and C categorized as normal (derived from distant areas of surgical tumour specimens), benign (fibrocystic change, fibroadenoma and other types) and malignant 0 (carcinomas in situ and invasive carcinomas). 
 O 
 Immunohistochemistry c The tissue sections were immunostained by the biotin-streptavidin o complex method using the monoclonal antibody M75 to the N-terminal domain of CA r Cl IX and applied in 1:10 dilution for 1 h at room temperature, as described previously [Pastorekova et al. 1997]. Briefly, the procedure was performed as follows: Pretreatment with undiluted cow colostral whey for 40 min and rinsing in phosphatebuffered saline (PBS). Incubation for 1 h with M75 monoclonal antibody in PBS containing 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA). Incubation for 1 h with biotinylated goat anti-mouse IgG (Dakopatts, Copenhagen, Denmark) diluted 1:300 in 1% BSA- PBS. Incubation for 30 min with peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin (Dakopatts) diluted 1:500 in PBS. Visualization for 2 min in diaminobenzidine solution (Fluka, Buchs, Switzerland). The sections were washed three times for 10 min in PBS after steps 2, 3, and 4. All the incubations and washings were carried out at room temperature. The sections were counterstained with haematoxylin, mounted in Permount [Fisher Scientific, Fair Lawn, NJ examined and photographed with a Nikon Eclipse E600 (Tokyo, Japan) microscope. The level of staining was scored in a blinded manner, taking into account intensity of signal, pattern and extent of staining under low and high magnification. Sections of normal human intestine were used as positive controls. For the negative control, M75 antibody was substituted with PBS. The staining intensity was scored using a scale of 0-3 as follows: 0, no reaction; 1, weak reaction; 2, moderate reaction; 3, strong reaction. The staining pattern was evaluated as cytoplasmic or membranous and positivity was assigned only to those specimens that showed the plasma membrane staining. The extent of staining was evaluated as focal if occasional single cells or small groups of cells were positive, or diffuse, if continuous or extensive areas were stained. 
 119 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 
 O 
 o RNA extraction and reverse transcription of cDNA Extraction of total RNA from the frozen breast specimens was done by disrupting the tissues in Trizol solution (GIBCO, Life Technologies). RNA was precipitated by ethanol, dissolved in water treated with diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC, C Sigma) and reverse transcribed with SuperScriptll reverse transcriptase (GIBCO, Life Technologies) using oligo(dT) 1 2-18. (500 4g/ml). 5 pl RNase-free sterile water O containing 1 [g of total RNA was added to a reaction mixture composed of dNTPs, Seach at 0.5 mM concentration (Pharmacia), and reverse transcriptase buffer N 10 containing 6 mM MgCI 2 40 mM KCI, 1 mM DTT, 0.1 mg/ml BSA and 50 mM Tris- O HCI, pH 8.3. The mixture in a final volume of 20 pl was heated for 10 min at 700C, 
 O 
 C cooled quickly on ice, supplemented with 200 U of reverse transcriptase, incubated for 1 h at 42C, heated for 15 min at 700C and stored at 80oC until used. 
 PCR amplification PCR reaction was performed with an automatic DNA thermal cycler (BIORAD) using the cDNA-specific primers for CA9 as well as for 2 -microglobulin 2 which served as an internal standard. The nucleotide sequences of the primers, with relevant positions and database accession numbers in parentheses, were as follows: CA9 (X66839): MN1 5' CCGAGCGACGCAGCCTTTGA 3' (1188-1207) (SEQ ID NO: 107), MN2 5' TAGTCGACTAGGCTCCAGTCTCGGCTACCT 3' (1443-1414) (SEQ ID NO: 108); 3 2 -microglobulin (AF072097): B2M1 5' CATCCAGCGTACTCCAAAGA 3' (860-879) (SEQ ID NO: 109), B2M2 5' GACAAGTCTGAATGCTCCAC 3' (1024- 1005) (SEQ ID NO: 110). 
 To compare the expression of CA9 with breast tumour markers ER, cerbB2, c-erbB3 and CD44, we used the same templates for parallel semi-quantitative RT-PCR reactions using the following primers: Oestrogen receptor (M12674): ERI 5' ACTCGCTACTGTGCAGTGTGCAATG 3' (776-800) (SEQ ID NO: 111), ER2 5' CCTCTTCGGTCTTTTCGTATCCCAC 3' (1014-990) (SEQ ID NO: 112); c-erbB-2 (M11730): EB2-1 AGTTTCCAGATGAGGAGGG CGCATGCC 3' (1994-2020) (SEQ ID NO: 113), EB2- 2 5' TTCTCCCCATCAGGGAT CCAGATGCCC 3' (2384-2358) (SEQ ID NO: 114); 120 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 m c-erbB-3 (M34309): EB3-1 5' GGTGCTGGGCTTGCTTTTCAGCCTGG 3' (222-247) 
 O 
 O (SEQ ID NO: 115), EB3-2 5' ACCACGCGGAGGTTGGGCAATGGTAG 3' (512-487) (SEQ ID NO: 116); CD44 (M59040.1): CD44-1 5' GGGTCCCATACCACTCATGGA TCT 3' (725-748) (SEQ ID NO: 117), CD44-2 5' GGGAAAGGTTGGCGATCAGGAA TA 3'(1444-1421) (SEQ ID NO: 118). 
 c l The reaction mixture was composed of 1/40 of cDNA template obtained from 1 pg of RNA, 15 pmol of each upstream and downstream primers for O both the analysed gene and p2-m, 0.2 mM of each dNTP (Pharmacia), 1 U of Taq 
 \O 
 DNA polymerase (Boehringer Mannheim) and PCR buffer (10 mM Tris-HCI pH 8.3, S 10 50 mM KCI and 1.5 mM MgC1 2 in a total volume of 25 ul. Following an initial 0 denaturation at 950C for 1 min, the amplification program was set as follows: 
 O 
 CN" denaturation at 95 0 C for 20 s, annealing at 650C for 30 s, and extension at 720C during 40 s for a total of 30 cycles, and finally 5 min at 720C. In these conditions, amplified products were obtained in the exponential phase for the two sets of primers, and the yield of PCR products obtained by co-amplification was similar to those obtained by individual amplifications in separate tubes. In addition to tumour samples, negative and positive controls were systematically processed in parallel. 
 Semi-quantitation of RT-PCR products 20 pl of RT-PCR products were run on a 1.8% agarose gel. 
 Quantification of PCR products was done using Scion Image software. The amount of CA9-specific PCR product was expressed as a percentage of the internal standard. The specimens were classified as 0 when amount of CA9 product was less than or equal to 10% of internal standard, as 1 for 11-50%, 2 for 51-80% and 3 for more than 80% of P2-m. Similar semi-quantitation in relative percentages of genespecific products was used for the other markers without further categorization of data. 
 Statistical evaluation Association between expression of CA9 and expression of ER, cerbB2, c-erbB3 and CD44 in breast tumours was evaluated by chi-square test of independence (or by Fisher's exact test) using data obtained in a parallel RT-PCR analysis of the same specimens. Mann-Whitney rank test applied to positive WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Mt' specimens was used to compare expression levels of individual markers in CA9- 
 O 
 O positive versus CA9-negative subgroups of malignant tissues. A significance level of p :0.05 was used in both tests. 
 RESULTS 
 Immunohistochemical analysis of breast tissues The set of 72 breast specimens subjected to IHC analysis of CA IX O expression consisted of 10 normal tissues, 36 benign lesions and 26 malignant C0 tumours (Table The benign lesions included 20 specimens with fibrocystic CN 10 changes, six fibroadenomas and 10 specimens of other type (two hyperplasias, two 0 adenoses, four fibroses, one adenoma, one benign phylodes tumour). The 
 O 
 C malignant tumours included five ductal carcinomas in situ, two lobular carcinomas in situ, 13 invasive ductal carcinomas, two invasive lobular carcinomas, three tubular carcinomas and one mucinous carcinoma. 
 All 10 normal breast tissues were negative for membrane CA IX, with only few occasional cells with weak cytoplasmic staining found in one specimen of lactating breast. In benign lesions, a positive membrane signal ranging from weak to strong was detected in four of 36 specimens (Table All positive lesions were classified as fibrocystic changes. Among negative specimens, one fibroadenoma and three lesions with fibrocystic changes showed weak cytoplasmic staining in a few epithelial cells, while other benign lesions did not stain at all. 
 In sections with fibrocystic changes, the staining signal was mainly confined to abnormal epithelium, mostly in areas of apocrine metaplasia. weak diffuse cytoplasmic staining seen in apocrine metaplastic epithelium.] Weak signal of a diffuse cytoplasmic pattern was observed in three specimens. The four moderately to strongly positive specimens showed focal membrane staining. strong focal membrane staining of epithelial cells seen in benign hyperplastic epithelium.] In one case with fibrocystic change and sclerosing adenosis, strong CA IX-specific staining was detected in sub-epithelial fibroblasts and endothelium. 
 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 Table 8 0 Summary of the immunohistochemical staining of CA IX in the Snormal, benign, and malignant breast tissues normal, benign, and malignant breast tissues Cl 0 
 CD 
 Total Positive specimens* Expression Level Type of tissue No. No. Mean Range Normal breast 10 1 10 0.10 0-1 Benign lesions 36 4 11 0.39 0-3 Fibroadenomas 6 0 0 0.17 0-1 Fibrocystic changes 20 4 20 0.65 0-3 Other types 10 0 0 0.00 Malignant tumours 26 12 46 1.42 0-3 In situ 7 4 57 1.28 1-2 Invasive 19 8 42 1.47 0-3 *Positivity was assigned only to specimens with membrane staining Out of 26 malignant breast tissue specimens, plasma membrane expression of CA IX protein was detectable in 12 carcinomas (Table The positivity was observed mainly in the abnormal epithelium. The majority of weakly stained specimens showed a focal cytoplasmic pattern, while moderate to strong staining was mainly of focal membrane type. Interestingly, in four invasive ductal carcinomas out of six strongly positive malignant cases, staining was observed in stromal fibroblasts and occasionally also in endothelial cells. Indeed, there were two specimens with strongly positive stroma and negative carcinoma cells. strong specific positivity was present in stromal fibroblasts and endothelial cells, but absent in the area of invasive ductal carcinoma in a tumour specimen.] In one specimen of ductal in situ carcinoma with sclerosing adenosis, strong positivity was found in adenosis, whereas the in situ area was negative. The last strongly positive tumour tissue specimen was classified as mucinous carcinoma and was found to express CA IX focally in membranes of abnormal epithelial cells. On the other hand, both lobular carcinomas in situ and one of two invasive lobular carcinomas showed only WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 weak cytoplasmic staining, while the other lobular carcinoma specimen was O completely negative. 
 Comparison of CA IX expression with basic clinicopathological parameters of the analysed malignant tumors did not reveal any significant relationship with the age, nodal status, tumor size and grade. 
 Table 9 O Summary of the RT-PCR analysis of CA9 gene expression in the normal, benign and malignant breast tissues O Total Positive specimens Expression level 
 O 
 Type of tissue No. No. Mean Range Normal breast 3 0 0 0.0 Benign lesions 33 11 33 0.39 0-3 Fibroadenomas 9 5 56 0.56 0-3 Fibrocystic changes 20 6 30 0.40 0-1 Other types 4 0 0 0.00 Malignant tumours 39 25 64 1.03 0-3 In situ 3 1 33 0.33 1-3 Invasive 36 24 67 1.08 0-3 RT-PCR analysis of breast tissues The specimens utilized for RT-PCR analysis included three normal tissues, 33 benign lesions and 39 malignant tumours (Table The benign tissue specimens consisted of 20 lesions with fibrocystic changes, nine fibroadenomas and four lesions of other types (one adenosis, one epitheliosis, one intraductal papilloma and one non-specific autoimmune alveolitis). The malignant tissues involved three ductal carcinomas in situ, 32 invasive ductal carcinomas, two invasive lobular carcinomas, one tubular carcinoma and one mucinous carcinoma. 
 All three normal tissue specimens were negative for CA9 transcript, while the specific RT-PCR product was detected in 33% of benign lesions. Nine WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 benign lesions were evaluated as weakly positive, one lesion showed moderate 0 positivity and only one benign lesion showed strong positivity. On the other hand, 
 O 
 lN 64% of malignant tumours expressed CA9, of which 14 tissues were weakly positive, nine were moderately positive and three were strongly positive (Table [The CA9 specific PCR product of 255 bp was detected using 13 2 -microglobulin-related PCR NC product of 165 bp as a standard.] As above, there was no significant association between CA9 expression and any of the clinicopathological parameters. 
 O 
 0 O Concordance of IHC and RT-PCR data Comparison of IHC and RT-PCR data obtained from specimens of 36 c patients analysed simultaneously by both methods revealed 69.4 concordance of 
 O 
 O the results. There were 19 IHC-negative/RT-PCR-negative, six IHC-positive/RT- PCR-positive, 10 IHC-negative/RT-PCR positive patients, and one IHC-positive/RT- PCR-negative. The discrepancies could partially result from differences in methodology, which accounted for at least some RT-PCR-positive/IHC-negative data. Indeed, weak cytoplasmic staining was observed in six specimens evaluated as negative in IHC, but found to be positive in RT-PCR. In addition, there was an objective problem connected with breast tumour heterogeneity and related to the fact that the two methods were performed using different portions of tissue obtained from the same patient. This problem could be relevant especially in the cases with focal CA IX expression in a small area, present in the first portion of the breast specimen but lacking from the second. In support of this assumption was differential histological evaluation of five paired specimens, in which CA IX negativity was observed in the portion of tissue containing less severe morphological changes such as hyperplasia, while the positivity was associated with the presence of more striking abnormalities such as carcinoma in situ. 
 Relationship of CA9 to breast tumour markers In order to understand the molecular context of CA9 gene expression and to learn more about its possible significance in breast cancer, we have performed simultaneous semi-quantitative RT-PCR analyses of four additional markers. They included the genes encoding: oestrogen receptor a known predictor of response to endocrine therapy; type 1 receptor tyrosine kinase cerbB2 (HER-2/neu), associated with lack of endocrine response, aggressive 125 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 M phenotype and poor prognosis; c-erbB3, a catalytically-inactive ligand-binding c- O erbB2 homologue, proposed as a favourable predictor of endocrine response in ER C positive tumours; and an adhesion molecule CD44, a promising indicator of Smetastatic potential [Osborne et al. (1996); Revillion et al. (1998); Knowlden et al. 
 (1998); Kaufmann et al. (1995)]. 
 Cl For the statistical analysis, 39 malignant specimens were divided into two groups. The CA9-negative group contained 14 specimens with expression of D CA9 below 10% of internal control and the CA9-positive group consisted of specimens expressing CA9 mRNA at any level above 10%. In both groups, specimens were categorized as either positive or negative for expression of each of c the four markers. The cut-off value of 10% of internal control was used for ER, c- 
 O 
 O erbB3 and CD44. The cut-off value of 100% of internal control was estimated for the Ctl overexpression of c-erbB2 as a value corresponding to the mean expression level in c-erbB2-positive benign lesions multiplied by two. Using this criterion, 25.6% of malignant breast tissues in our collection were found to overexpress c-erbB2, in agreement with the data from literature [Revillion (1998)]. Association between CA9 and each marker was tested by the Chi-square test (or the Fisher's exact test in the case of c-erbB2) and concordance in negativity/positivity evaluation was calculated (Figue 7A). 
 Expression of CA9 in malignant breast tissues showed no significant relationship with ER c-erbB3 (p=0.35) and CD44 but there was a positive association between CA9 and c-erbB2 Nine of 25 (36%) specimens positive for CA9 mRNA overexpressed c-erbB2, while only 1114 CA9 negative tissues were classified as positive for c-erbB2 overexpression. 
 To test whether expression levels of the markers differ between CA9negative tissues and CA9-positive tissues, Mann-Whitney rank test was performed including only the marker-positive specimens. In the group of 14 CA9-negative cases, there were eight ER-, one c-erbB2-, eight erbB3- and eight CD44-positive specimens. On the other hand, there were 15 ER-, nine c-erbB2-, 18 erbB3- and 19 CD44-positive specimens among 25 CA9-positive cases. The distribution of expression values for individual markers was of similar shape and differed between CA9-positive and -negative tissues. Although three of the markers, namely ER, cerbB2 and c-erbB3, showed a higher median of expression in the CA9-positive group of specimens, a significant difference (p=0.02) was found only for c-erbB2 (Figure 126 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 7B). Median expression of c-erbB2 was 57% higher in the CA9-positive than the 
 O 
 O CA9-negative group of tissues. This result further supported the association between CA9 and c-erbB2. 
 S 5 DISCUSSION 
 CN- 
 Development of breast cancer is driven by accumulation of numerous 0 molecular changes. This process does not follow a linear progression model, but is 
 \O 
 highly complex and variable [Bergstein, I. (1999)]. Its understanding and identification of relevant components is essential not only for better stratification of O patients for treatment, but also to allow for the development of more effective 
 O 
 0< therapeutic strategies targeted to aberrant cellular pathways. 
 According to Example 11, ectopic activation of a cell surface carbonic anhydrase IX appears to be one of the molecular alterations contributing to breast tumourigenesis. Neither mRNA nor the protein was found in normal breast tissues. 
 CA IX expression was observed in relatively low percentage of benign lesions, while the incidence and level of CA IX in the malignant tumours were considerably higher, as documented by both IHC and RT-PCR analyses performed on two partially independent series of specimens. A similar scenario, with relatively early onset and increased CA IX expression in malignant tissues, was earlier observed in other types of carcinomas derived from the uterine cervix, oesophagus and colon [Liao et al (1994), Turner et al. (1997), Saarnio et al. (1998)]. On the other hand, lack of expression in preneoplastic disease and its association with malignant conversion was demonstrated in renal cell carcinomas and lung carcinomas [McKiernan et al. 
 (1997), Vermylen et al. (1999), Liao et al (1997)]. The cause of a different timing of activation in different tissues is unclear, but it may be connected with regulatory pathways involved in the development of diverse type of tumours. For example, high and homogeneous expression of CA IX in renal cell carcinomas appears to be linked to inactivation of von Hippel Lindau tumour suppressor protein, leading to elimination of its negative control over CA IX [Ivanov et al. (1998)]. 
 Present immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the majority of CA IX-positive breast lesions contained staining signal in abnormal epithelial cells. The expression pattern was very variable, most probably reflecting the heterogeneity of breast tumour cells: the protein was localized in the plasma membrane and/or WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 r cytoplasm, and the stained area varied from focal to diffuse. Noteworthy, there were 
 O 
 O two cases, in which strong specific positivity was detected also in stromal cells and two cases with strong staining present in stroma but absent from the area of carcinoma. Such a distribution of CA IX has been observed before in malignant colorectal tumours, where desmoplastic connective tissue occasionally showed prominent immunostaining [Saarnio et al. (1998)]. These peculiar findings are difficult to explain but suggest existence of microenvironmental factors influencing 0 CA IX expression. It is well known that mutual cross-talk between epithelium and adjacent stroma plays an important role in modulating the process of neoplastic C 10 transformation [Heber et al (1996), Goldyne et al. (1991)]. Activation of CA IX in O stroma may therefore represent a consequence of aberrant paracrine 
 O 
 (S communication between abnormal epithelial cells and surrounding fibroblasts. 
 Alternatively, expression of CA IX in the tumour stroma might be connected with genetic aberrations recently observed in stromal cells in mammary carcinoma [Moinfar et al. (2000)]. 
 The expression pattern of CA IX may be also affected by microenvironmental stresses, whose critical contribution to the development of tumour phenotype has become an increasingly accepted phenomenon [Blancher and Harris (1998)]. Indeed, Wykoff et al. 2000 have recently demonstrated an intimate connection between hypoxic stress and induction of CA IX. They have shown that upregulation of CA IX occurs at the level of transcriptional activation via HIF-1 transcriptional complex, the critical mediator of hypoxic responses, and they have proposed that CA IX may be a useful marker for tumour hypoxia. 
 Hypoxia is one of the major drives to tumour progression [Blancher and Harris (1998)]. It leads to activation of genes involved in the development of tumour metabolic pathways including aerobic glycolysis and neovascularization. CA IX appears to participate in hypoxia-induced oncogenic metabolism via extracellular acidification and maintenance of normal intracellular pH, thus contributing to conditions required for the spread and survival of tumor cells [Wykoff et al. (2000)]. 
 From the clinical point of view, hypoxia is associated with poor prognosis, aggressive phenotype and resistance to anti-cancer therapy [Blancher and Harris (1998)]. This may explain our finding of an association between ectopic expression of CA IX and overexpression of c-erbB2, an oncogene encoding a receptor tyrosine kinase that 128 serves as a marker of aggressive breast tumours with poor outcome [Revillion et al. 
 S (1998)]. 
 z Signal transduction mediated by activated oncogenes may induce the 0, expression of a tumour metabolic phenotype independently of hypoxia, or may amplify the hypoxic response [Blancher and Harris (1998)]. It was shown that inactivation of c-erbB2 was associated with decreased expression of an important 0 hypoxic target vascular endothelial growth factor [Petit et al. (1997)]. By analogy, S this observation may offer clues to a functional link between c-erbB2 and CA IX. It is possible that some of the features associated with high c-erbB2 expression, such as 0 invasion and metastatic capability, are also mediated by coexpression of CA IX. In fact, a significant proportion of c-erbB2-positive cancers does not respond to treatment by herceptin, a humanized monoclonal antibody against c-erbB2 [Kuter, I. 
 (2001)]. Thus it is conceivable that inhibitors of the associated expression of CA IX could be of further therapeutic value. This assumption is supported by the evidence that inhibition of CA activity reduces invasion of some tumour cells lines [Parkkila et al. (2000)] and that treatment by CA inhibitor may be beneficial as an adjunct to cancer chemotherapy [Teicher et al. (1993)]. 
 In conclusion, this example has shown that expression of CA9 gene is associated with breast cancer in a manner similar to some other types of carcinomas, with respect to both incidence and/or expression pattern. The data shown here highlight the need for further large-scale analyses, specifically directed to a possible prognostic/predictive value of CA9 in breast cancer and a significance of its relationship with c-erbB2. In general, our work adds to accumulating evidence supporting the view that CA9 activation is a common event in carcinogenesis and is a new therapeutic target. 
 EXAMPLE 12 Accessibility In Vivo of MN Protein Expressed in Tumor Cells and in Stomach Lewis rats (384g) carrying a BP6 subcutaneous tumor (about 1 cm in diameter) expressing rat MN protein were injected intraperitoneally with 1251- Mab (2.5 x 106 cpm). Five days later, 0.5-1g pieces of the tumor and organs were weighed and their radioactivity was measured by a gamma counter. 
 Table 10 summarizes the results. The highest radioactivity was present in the tumor. Relatively high radioactivity was found in the liver and kidney, 129 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 
 M 
 n apparently reflecting the clearance of mouse IgG from the blood. The stomach 
 O 
 O continued a relatively low level of radioactivity, indicating that the M75 Mab had only N limited access to MN protein exposed in the gastric mucosa. 
 S 5 TABLE C< Distribution of radioactivity of 125 1-M75 in rat organs and in the tumor SOrgan cpm/g O \O Kidney 2153 2184 Spleen 653 555 S Liver 1993 1880 
 O 
 0 Lung 1183 1025 C Blood 1449 Heart 568 477 Stomach 1184 1170 Testis 812 779 Tail 647 Tumor 3646 4058 3333 8653 3839 Budapest Treaty Deposits The materials listed below were deposited with the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) now at 10810 University Blvd., Manassus, Virginia 20110- 2209 (USA). The deposits were made under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of Deposited Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure and Regulations thereunder (Budapest Treaty). Maintenance of a viable culture is assured for thirty years from the date of deposit. The hybridomas and plasmids will be made available by the ATCC under the terms of the Budapest Treaty, and subject to an agreement between the Applicants and the ATCC which assures unrestricted availability of the deposited hybridomas and plasmids to the public upon the granting of patent from the instant application. Availability of the deposited strain is not to be construed as a license to practice the invention in contravention of the rights granted under the authority of any Government in accordance with its patent laws. 
 Hybridoma Deposit Date ATCC September 17, 1992 HB 11128 MN 12.2.2 June 9, 1994 HB 11647 Plasmid Deposit Date ATCC A4a June 6, 1995 97199 XE1 June 6, 1995 97200 XE3 June 6, 1995 97198 Similarly, the hybridoma cell line V/10-VU which produces the monoclonal antibodies was deposited on February 19, 2003 under the Budapest Treaty at the International Depository Authority (IDA) of the Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCM) at the Laboratorium voor Moleculaire Biologie-Plasmidencollectie (LMBP) at the Universeit Gent, K.L. Ledeganckstraat B-9000 Gent, Belgium [BCCM/LMBP] under the Accession No. LMBP 6009CB. 
 The description of the foregoing embodiments of the invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed, and obviously 131 WO 03/100029 PCT/US03/05136 many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The O embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the 0 N~ invention and its practical application to enable thereby others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. 
 All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference. 
 CO 0O \0 Cl' t(N 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
