
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I~ a a0 q1U- 
 PCI 
 ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE LATER PUBUCATION OF INTERNATIONAL SEARCH REPORT INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION PUBLISHED UNDER THE PATEN 1 CUUtbRATION TREATY (PCT) (51) International Patent Classification 5 (1i) International Publication Number: WO 92/14818 C12N 15/00 A3 (43) International Pubiication Date: 3 September 1992 (03.09.92) (21) International Application Number: PCT/US92/00855 (74) Agents: SALIWANCHIK, David, R. et al.; Saliwanchik Saliwanchik, 2421 N.W. 41st Street, Suite A-1, Gaines- (22) International Filing Date: 12 February 1992 (12.02.92) ville, FL 32606 (US). 
 Priority data: (81) Designated States: AT (European patent), AU, BE (Euro- 657,584 19 February 1991 (19.02.91) US pean patent), CA; CH (European patent), DE (Euro- 827,685 30 January 1992 (30.01.92) US pean patent), OK (European patent), ES (European patent), FR (European patent), GB (European patent), GR (European patent), IT (European patent), JP, KR, LU (71) Applicant (for all designated States except US): UNIVERSI- (European patent), MC (European patent), NL (Euro- TY OF FLORIDA [US/US]; 186 Grinter Hall, Gaines- pean patent), PL, SE (European patent), US. 
 ville, FL 32611 (US). 
 (72) Inventors; and Published Inventors/Applicants (for US only) MOYER, Richard, W. With international secrch report. 
 [US/US]; 1225 N.W. 23rd Terrace, Gainesville, FL Before the expiration of the time limit for amending the 32605 HALL, Richard, L. [US/US]; 3611 S.W. claims and to be republished in the event of the receipt of 34th Street, Apt. 178, Gainesville, FL 32608 amendments. 
 GRUIDL, Michael, E. [US/US]; 211 Alhambra, Columbia, MO 65203 (88) Date of publication of the international search report: December 1992 (10.12.92) (54)Title: ENTOMOPOXVIRUS EXPRESSION SYSTEM COMPRISING SPHEROIDIN OR THYMIDINE-KINASE SE- 
 QUENCES 
 (57) Abstract The subject invention pertains to novel Entomopoxvirus (EPV) polynucleotide sequences free from association with other viral sequences with which they are naturally associated, recombinant polynucleotide vectors containing the sequences, recombinant viruses containing the sequences, and host cells infected with the recombinant viruses are provided herein, as well as methods for use thereof in the expression of heterologous proteins in both insect and mammalian host cells. 
 AmEPV Hind I11 map: C I B A F IIJ G D HI E 0.5 kb 3 H B BB S1 II 
 B 
 i768 
 I 
 I-1 307 bp 80 bp 1.88 kb E 4504 4811 4691 G1L G2R G4R 1.4 kb 0.7 kb 0.5kb 0.2kb G5R 3.0 kb Spheroidin G6L Vaccinia INTPase I Vaccinia ORF 17 Capripoxvirus HM3 Amino Acid Homologies r- (sl(IIIIY*XI3rl i WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 1 NOVEL ENTOMOPOXVIRUS EXPRESSION SYSTEM Field of the Invention This invention relates generally to the field of recombinantly-produced proteins and specifically to novel, recombinant Entomopoxvirus proteins, protein regulatory sequences and their uses in expressing heterologous genes in transformed hosts. 
 Background of the Invention Poxviruses are taxonomically classified into the family Chordopoxvirinae, whose members infect vertebrate hosts, the Orthopoxvirus vaccinia, or into the family Entomopoxvirinae. Very little is known about members of the Entomopoxvirinae family other than the insect host range of individual members. One species of Entomopoxvirus (EPV) is the Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus (AmEPV), which was first isolated from larvae of the red hairy caterpillar Amsacta moorei [Roberts and Granados, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 12:141-143 (1968)]. AmEPV is the type species of genus B of EPVs and is one of three known EPVs which will replicate in cultured insect cells R. Granados et al, "Replication of Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus and Autographa californica ruclear Polyhedrosis Virus in Hemocyte Cell Lines from Estigmene acrea", in Invertebrate Tissue Culture Applications in Medicine, Biology, and Agriculture, E. Kurstak and K. Maramorosch Academic Press, New York, pp. 379-389 (1976); T. Hukuhara et al, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 56:222-232 (1990); and T. 
 Sato, "Establishment of Eight Cell Lines from Neonate Larvae of Torticids (Lepidoptera), and Their Several Characteristics Including Susceptibility to Insect Viruses", in Invertebrate Cell Systems Applications, J. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCI/US92/00855 2 Mitsuhashi Vol. II, pp. 187-198, CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida (1989)]. 
 AmEPV is one of the few insect poxviruses which can replicate in insect cell culture; AmEPV is unable to replicate in vertebrate cell lines. The AmEPV doublestranded DNA genome is about 225 kb unusually A+T rich (18.5% G+C) H. R. Langridge et al, Virology, 76:616- 620 (1977)]. Recently, a series of restriction maps for AmEPV were published L. Hall et al, Arch. Virol., 110:77-90 (1990)]. No DNA homology to vaccinia has been detected H. Langridge, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 42:77- 82 (1983); W. H. Langridge, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 43:41- 46 (1984)]. 
 The viral replication cycle of AmEPV resembles that of other poxviruses except for the appearance of occluded virus late in infection. For AmEPV, once a cell is infected, both occluded and extracellular virus particles are generated. The mature occlusion body particle, which is responsible for environmentally protecting the virion during infection, consists of virus embedded within a crystalline matrix consisting primarily of a single protein, spheroidin. Spheroidin, the major structural protein of AmEPV, has been reported to be 110 kDa in molecular weight and to consist of a high percentage of charged and sulfur-containing amino acids [Langridge and Roberts, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 39:346-353 (1982)]. The use of viruses and virus proteins in eukaryotic host-vector systems has been the subject of a considerable amount of investigation and speculation. 
 Many existing viral vector systems suffer from 4 significant disadvantages and limitations which diminish their utility. For example, a number of eukaryotic viral vectors are either tumorigenic or oncogenic in mammalian systems, creating the potential for serious health and safety problems associated with resultant gene products SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 f p.- WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 3 and accidental infections. Further, in some eukaryotic host-viral vector systems, the gene product itself exhibits antiviral activity, thereby decreasing the yield of that protein. 
 In the case of simple viruses, the amount of exogenous DNA which can be packaged into a simple virus is limited. This limitation becomes a particularly acute problem when the genes used are eukaryotic. Because eukaryotic genes usually contain intervening sequences, they are too large to fit into simple viruses. Further, because they have many restriction sites, it is more difficult to insert exogenous DNA into complex viruses at specific locations. 
 Vaccinia virus has recently been developed as a eukaryotic cloning and expression vector Mackett et al, DNA Cloning, Vol. II, ed. D. M. Glover, pp. 191-212, Oxford: IRL Press (1985); D. Panicali et al, Proc. Natl. 
 Acad. Sci. USA, 88:5364-5368 (1982)]. Numerous viral antigens have been expressed using vaccinia virus vectors Paoletti et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 81:193- 197 (1984); A. Piccine et al, BioEssavs, 5:248-252 (1986)] including, among others, HBsAg, rabies G protein Sand the gpl20/gp41 of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). 
 Regulatory sequences from the spruce budworm EPV have been used previously with vaccinia Yuen et al, Viroloqy, 175:427-433 (1990)]. 
 Additionally, studies with vaccinia virus have demonstrated that poxviruses have several advantageous features as vaccine vectors. These include the ability of poxvirus-based vaccines to stimulate both cellmediated and humoral immunity, minimal cost to mass produce vaccine and the stability of the lyophilized vaccine without refrigeration, ease of administration under non-sterile condition, and the ability to insert at least 25,000 base pairs of foreign DNA into an infectious SUBSTITUTE SHEET Ar~ WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 4 recombinant, thereby permitting the simultaneous expression of many antigens from one recombinant. 
 There exists a need in the art for additional viral compositions and methods for use in expressing heterologous genes in selected host cells, and in performing other research and production techniques associated therewith. 
 Summary of the Invention As one aspect, the invention provides an Entomopoxvirus polynucleotide sequence, free from other viral sequences with which it is associated in nature, which comprises a sequence encoding the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene and/or its regulatory sequences, an allelic variant, an analog or a fragment thereof. In a particular embodiment, the spheroidin DNA sequence is isolated from the Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus and is illustrated in Fig. 2 [SEQ ID NO:1]. 
 Another aspect of the invention is the polynucleotide sequence encoding the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin promoter or an allelic variant, analog or fragment thereof. The spheroidin promoter sequence is characterized by the ability to direct the expression of a heterologous gene to which the sequence or fragment is operably linked in a selected host cell. 
 As another aspect, the present invention provides a recombinant polynucleotide sequence comprising a sequence encoding the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin protein and/or its regulatory sequences, an allelic variant, analog or fragment thereof, linked to a second polynucleotide sequence encoding a heterologous gene. 
 One embodiment of this polynucleotide sequence provides the spheroidin promoter sequence operably linked to the heterologous gene to direct the expression of the heterologous gene in a selected host cell. Another SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 _I~ 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 embodiment provides the sequence encoding the spheroidin protein linked to the heterologous gene in a manner permitting expression of a fusion protein. Still another embodiment provides the heterologous gene inserted into a site in the spheroidin gene so that the heterologous gene is flanked on both termini by spheroidin sequences. 
 As yet a further aspect, the invention provides an Entomopoxvirus polynucleotide sequence free from other viral sequences with which it is associated in nature, comprising a sequence encoding the Entomopoxvirus thymidine kinase (tk) gene and/or its regulatory sequences, an allelic variant, an analog or a fragment thereof. In a particular embodiment, the sequence originates from the Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus and is illustrated in Fig. 3 [SEQ ID NO:8]. 
 In still another aspect the sequence encodes the Entomopoxvirus tk promoter, allelic variant or a fragment thereof. The tk promoter sequence is characterized by the ability to direct the expression of a heterologous gene to which the sequence or fragment is operably linked in a selected host cell. 
 Yet a further aspect of the invention provides a recombinant polynucleotide sequence described above encoding the Entomopoxvirus tk gene and/or its regulatory sequences, an allelic variant, or a fragment thereof, linked to a heterologous gene. One embodiment of this polynucleotide sequence provides the tk promoter sequence operably linked to the heterologous gene to direct the expression of the heterologous gene in a selected host cell. Another embodiment provides the sequence encoding 4 the tk protein linked to the heterologous gene in a manner permitting expression of a fusion protein. Still another embodiment provides the heterologous gene inserted into a site in the tk gene so that the SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 L, t r WO 92/1L h s 81, PCT/US92/00855 eterologous gene is flanked on both termini by tk equences. 
 ILl Another aspect of the invention is an Entomopoxvirus spheroidin polypeptide, a fragment thereof, or an analog thereof, optionally fused to a heterologous protein or peptide. Also provided is an Entomopoxvirus tk polypeptide, a fragment thereof, or an analog thereof, optionally linked to a heterologous protein or peptide. 
 Yet another aspect of the invention is provided by recombinant polynucleotide molecules which comprise one or more of the polynucleotide sequences described above. This molecule may be an expression vector or shuttle vector. The molecule may also contain viral sequences originating from a virus other than the Entomopoxvirus which contributed the spheroidin or tk polynucleotide sequence, vaccinia. 
 In another aspect, the present invention provides a recombinant virus comprising a polynucleotide sequence as described above. Also provided are host cells infected with one or more of the described recombinant viruses. 
 The present invention also provides a method for producing a selected polypeptide comprising culturing a selected host cell infected with a recombinant virus, as described above, and recovering said polypeptide from the culture medium. 
 As a final aspect, the invention provides a method for screening recombinant host cells for insertion 30 of heterologous genes comprising infecting the cells with a recombinant virus containing a polynucleotide molecule comprising the selected heterologous gene sequence linked to an incomplete spheroidin or tk polynucleotide sequence or inserted into and interrupting the coding sequences thereof so that the heterologous gene is flanked at each 3 SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 7 termini by an Entomopoxvirus spheroidin or tk polynucleotide sequence. The absence of occlusion bodies formed by the expression of the spheroidin protein in the spheroidin containing cell indicates the integration of the heterologous gene. Alternatively, the absence of the thymidine kinase function, resistance to methotrexate or a nucleotide analogue of methotrexate, formed by the integration of the inactive thymidine kinase sequence indicates the insertion of the heterologous gene. 
 Other aspects and advantages of the present invention are described further in the following detailed description of embodiments of the present invention. 
 Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 is a physical map of AmEPV illustrating restriction fragments thereof and showing the spheroidin gene just to the right of site #29 in the HindIII-G fragment. 
 Fig. 2 provides the AmEPV DNA sequence of the Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene and flanking sequences [SEQ ID NO:1], the deduced amino acid sequences of the spheroidin protein [SEQ ID NO:6], and five additional open reading frames (ORFs). 
 Fig. 3 provides the DNA sequence of the Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus thymidine kinase (tk) gene and flanking sequences [SEQ ID NO:8], the deduced amino acid sequences of the tk protein [SEQ ID NO:ll], and two additional ORFs. 
 Fig. 4 provides the nucleotide sequences of the synthetic oligonucleotides designated RM58 [SEQ ID NO:12], RM82 [SEQ ID NO:13], RM83 [SEQ ID NO:14], RM92 [SEQ ID NO:15], RM118 [SEQ ID NO:16], RM165 [SEQ ID N0:17], RM03 [SEQ ID NO:18], RM04 [SEQ ID NO:19], and RM129 [SEQ ID SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 r WO 92/14818 PC/US92/00855 8 Fig. 5 is a schematic map of an AmEPV fragment illustrating the orientation of the spheroidin ORF on the physical map and indicating homologies. 
 Detailed Description of the Invention The present invention provides novel Entomopoxvirus (EPV) polynucleotide sequences free from association with other viral sequences with which they are naturally associated. Recombinant polynucleotide vectors containing the sequences, recombinant viruses containing the sequences, and host cells infected with the recombinant viruses are also disclosed herein. These compositions are useful in methods of the invention for the expression of heterologous genes and production of selected proteins in both insect and mammalian host cells. 
 Novel polynucleotide sequences of the invention encode the EPV spheroidin gene and/or its flanking sequences, including sequences which provide regulatory signals for the expression of the gene. The invention also provides novel polynucleotide sequences encoding the EPV thymidine kinase (tk) gene and/or its flanking sequences. The polynucleotide sequences of this invention may be either RNA or DNA sequences. More preferably, the polynucleotide sequences of this invention are DNA sequences. 
 Specifically disclosed by the present invention are spheroidin and tk polynucleotide sequences obtained Sfrom the Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus (AmEPV). While this is the presently preferred species for practice of the methods and compositions of this invention, it is anticipated that, utilizing the techniques described herein, substantially homologous sequences may be obtained by one of skill in the art from other available Entomopoxvirus species. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 i i WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 9 The AmEPV spheroidin DNA sequence, including flanking and regulatory sequence, is reported in Fig. 2 as spanning nucleotides 1 through 6768 [SEQ ID NO:1]. 
 Within this sequence, the spheroidir gene coding sequence spans nucleotides #3080 to #6091 [SEQ ID NO:21]. A fragment which is likely to contain the promoter sequences spans nucleotide #2781-3199 [SEQ ID NO:22]. 
 Other regions of that sequence have also been identified as putative coding regions for other structural or regulatory genes associated with sphe;roidin. These other fragments of interest include the following sequences: nucleotide 1472 through 2151 [SEQ ID NO:23] encoding the G2R ORF [SEQ ID NO:3]; nucleotide #2502 througn 2987 [SEQ ID NO:24] encoding the G4R ORF [SEQ ID NO:5]; and the following sequences transcribed left to right on Fig. 
 2: nucleotide #65 through 1459 [SEQ ID NO:25] encoding the GIL ORF [SEQ ID NO:2]; nucleotide #2239 through 2475 [SEQ ID NO:26] encoding the G3L ORF [SEQ ID NO:4]; and nucleotide #677 through 6768 [SEQ ID NO:27] encoding the G6L ORF [SEQ ID NO:7]. These ORFs are identified in Fig. 2. 
 The AmEPV ORF G4R [SEQ ID NO:5] which is immediately upstream of the spheroidin gene has significant homology to the capripoxvirus HM3 ORF. A homolog of the HM3 ORF is found in vaccinia virus just upstream of a truncated version of Lhe cowpox virus ATI gene. Therefore, the microenvironments in this region are similar in the two viruses. Two other ORFs relate to counterparts in vaccinia virus. These ORFs include the 17 ORF of the vaccinia virus HindIII-I fragment (I7) F. C. Schmitt et al, J. Virol., 62:1889-1897 (1988)] which relates to the AmEPV GIL ORF [SEQ ID NO:2] and the NTPase I (NPH I) ORF of the HindIII--D fragmei.t which relates to the AmEPV G6L ORF [SEQ ID NO:7] S. Broyles et al, J. Virol., 61:1738-1742 (1987); and J. F. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 SRodriguez et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 83:9566-9570 (1986)]. The genomic location of the AmEPV ORFs compared with that of the vaccinia virus ORFs suggests that the arrangement of essential "core genes", which are centrally located and colinear in many, if not all, of the vertebrate poxviruses on a more macroscopic L;ale, is quite different in the insect virus. 
 As set out in detail in the accompanying examples below, the spheroidin gene of AmEPV was identified through direct microsequencing of the protein, and the results were used for the design of oligonucleotide probes. Transcription of the spheroidin gene is inhibited by cycloheximide, suggesting it is a late gene. Consistent with this prediction are the observations that spheroidin transcripts were initiated within a TAATG motif (See Fig. 2, nucleotide #3077- 3082) and that there was a 5' poly(A) sequence, both characteristic of late transcripts. 
 The AmEPV tk DNA sequence, including flanking and regulatory sequence, is reported in Fig. 3, as spanning nucleotides #1 through 1511 [SEQ ID NO:8]. 
 Within this sequence, the tk gene coding sequence spans nucleotides 234 to 782 [SEQ ID NO:28] (transcribed right to left on Fig. Another fragment of interest may include nucleotides #783 through #851 [SEQ ID NO:29] of that sequence or fragments thereof. A fragment likely to contain the promoter regions spans nucleotide #750 890 [SEQ ID NO:30]. Other regions of that sequence have also been identified as putative coding regions for other structural or regulatory genes associated with tk. These SUBSTITUTE SHEET h 1 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 11 other fragments of interest include the following sequences (transcribed left to right on Fig. 3: nucleotide 18 through 218 [SEQ ID NO:31] encoding ORF Q1 [SEQ ID NO:10]); and nucleotide 852 through 1511 [SEQ ID NO:32] encoding ORF Q3 [SEQ ID The location of the AmEPV tk gene maps in the EcoRI-Q fragment near the left end of the physical map of the AmEPV genome (Fig. 1) [see, also, R. L. Hall et al, Arch. Virol., 110:77-90 (1990), incorporated by reference herein]. Because of the orientation of the gene within the AmEPV genome, transcription of the gene is likely to occur toward the terminus. There are believed to be similar tk genes, or variations thereof, in other systems, including mammalian systems. As set out in detail in the examples below, the tk gene of AmEPV was identified through direct microsequencing of the protein, and the results were used for the design of oligonucleotide probes. 
 The term "polynucleotide sequences" when used with reference to the invention can include the entire EPV spheroidin or tk genes with regulatory sequences flanking the coding sequences. The illustrated AmEPV sequences are also encompassed by that term. Also included in the definition are fragments of the coding sequences with flanking regulatory sequences. The definition also encompasses the regulatory sequences only, the promoter sequences, transcription sites, termination sequences, and other regulatory sequences. 
 Sequences of the invention may also include all or portions of the spheroidin or tk genes linked in frame to a heterologous gene sequence. Additionally, polynucleotide sequences of the invention may include sequences of the spheroidin or tk genes into which have been inserted a foreign or heterologous gene sequence, so SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 i I WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 12 that the EPV sequences flank the heterologous gene sequence. 
 Polynucleotide sequences of this invention also include sequences which are capable of hybridizing to the sequences of Figs. 2 and 3, under stringent conditions, which sequences retain the same biological or regulatory activities as those of the figures. Also sequences capable of hybridizing to the sequences of Figs. 2 and 3 under non-stringent conditions may fall within this definition providing that the biological or regulatory characteristics of the sequences of Figs. 2 and 3, respectively, are retained. Examples of stringent and non-stringent conditions of hybridization are conventional [See, Sambrook et al, Molecular Cloning. A Laboratory Manual, 2d edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York (1989)]. 
 Similarly, polynucleotide sequences of this invention also include allelic variations (naturallyoccurring base changes in the EPV species population which may or may not result in an amino acid change) of DNA sequences encoding the spheroidin or tk protein sequences or DNA sequences encoding the other ORFs or regulatory sequences illustrated in Figs. 2 and 3. 
 Similarly, DNA sequences which encode spheroidin or tk proteins of the invention but which differ in codon sequence due to the degeneracies of the genetic code or variations in the DNA sequences which are caused by point mutations or by induced modifications to enhance a biological property or the usefulness of a desired polynucleotide sequence encoded thereby are also encompassed in the invention. 
 Utilizing the sequence data in Iigs. 2 or 3, as well as the denoted characteristics of spheroidin or thymidine kinase, it is within the skill of the art to obtain other DNA sequences encoding these polypeptides. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 nj :Liri k 113 For example, the structural gene may be manipulated by varying individual nucleotides, while retaining the correct amino acid(s), or varying the nucleotides, so as to modify the amino acids, without loss of enzymatic activity. Nucleotides may be substituted, inserted, or deleted by known techniques, including, for example, in vitro mutagenesis and primer repair. 
 The structural gene may be truncated at its 3'terminus and/or its 5'-terminus while retaining its biological activity. It may also be desirable to ligate a portion of the polypeptide sequence to a heterologous coding sequence, and thus to create a fusion peptide. 
 The polynucleotide sequences of the present invention may be prepared synthetically or can be derived from viral RNA or from available cDNA-containing plasmids by chemical and genetic engineering techniques or combinations thereof which are standard in the art. 
 The AmEPV proteins, spheroidin, thymidine kinase and their respective regulatory sequences, as described herein, may be encoded by polynucleotide sequences that differ in sequence from the sequences of Figs. 2 and 3 due to natural allelic or species variations. Thus, the terms spheroidin or tk polypeptides also refer to any of the naturally occurring sequences and various analogs, processed or truncated sequences or fragments, including the mature spheroidin or tk polypeptides and mutant or modified polypeptides or fragments that retain the same biological C activity and preferably have a homology to Fig. 2 cr 3, respectively, of at least 80%, more preferably 90%, and most preferably Another aspect of the present invention is provided by the proteins encoded by the EPV spheroidin and tk polynucleotide sequences. Putative amino acid sequences of the two EPV proteins as well as additional SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 I i i. 1-.:11 i ii ii !i I WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 14 putative proteins encoded by the ORFs of these sequences which are identified in Figs. 2 and 3, respectively. EPV spheroidin has no significant amino acid homology to any previously reported protein, including the polyhedrin protein of baculovirus. Both spheroidin and tk are nonessential proteins, which makes them desirable as sites for insertion of exogenous DNA. 
 Comparison of the AmEPV tk amino acid sequence with other tk genes reveals that the AmEPV tk gene is not highly related to any of the vertebrate poxvirus tk genes (43.4 to The relatedness of the vertebrate tk proteins to AmEPV is still lower (39.3 to while African Swine Fever (ASF) showed the least homology of all the tk proteins tested Although ASF has many similarities to poxviruses, and both ASF and AmEPV infect vertebrate hosts, the tk genes indicate little commonality and/or indication of common origin stemming from invertebrate hosts. 
 The spheroidin and thymidine kinase polypeptide sequences may include isolated naturally-occurring spheroidin or tk amino acid sequences identified herein or deliberately modified sequences which maintain the biological or regulatory functions of the AmiPV polypeptides, respectively identified in Figs. 2 and 3. 
 Therefore, provided that the biological activities of these polypeptides are retained in whole or part despite such modifications, this invention encompasses the use of all amino acid sequences disclosed herein as well as analogs thereof retaining spheroidin or tk biological activity. Typically, such analogs differ by only 1, 2, 3, or 4 codon changes. Similarly, proteins or functions encoded by the other spheroidin or tk ORFs may include sequences containing minor amino acid modifications but which retain their regulatory or other biological functions. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET i  
 I~ 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 Examples of such modifications include polypeptides with minor amino acid variations from the natural amino acid sequence of Entomopoxvirus spheroidin or thymidine kinase; in particular, conservative amino acid replacements. Conservative replacements are those that take place within a family of amino acids that are related in their side chains. Genetically encoded amino acids are generally divided into four families: acidic aspartate, glutamate; basic lysine, arginine, histidine; non-polar alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan; and uncharged polar glycine, asparagine, glutamine, cystine, serine, threonine, tyrosine. Phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine are sometimes classified jointly as aromatic amino acids. 
 For example, it is reasonable to expect that an isolated replacement of a 3.eucine with an isoleucine or valine, an aspartate with a glutamate, a threonine with a serine, or a similar conservative replacement of an amino acid with a structurally related amino acid will not have a major effect on biological activity, especially if the replacement does not involve an amino acid at an active site of the polypeptides. 
 As used herein, the term "polypeptide" refers to a polymer of amino acids and does not refer to a specific length of the product; thus, peptides, oligopeptides, and proteins are included within the definition of polypeptide. This term also does not refer to or exclude post-expression modifications of the polypeptide, for example, glycosylations, acetylations, phosphorylations and the like. Included within the definition are, for example, polypeptides containing one or more analogs of an amino acid (including, for example, unnatural amino acids, etc.), polypeptides with substituted linkages, as well as other modifications '1 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 -sm -1 ~I i=i~_i I WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 
 I" 
 Sknown in the art, both natural. occurring and non-naturally occurring. 
 The proteins or polypeptides of the present invention may be expressed in host cells and purified from the cells or media by conventional means [Sambrook et al, Molecular Cloning. A Laboratory Manual, 2d edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York (1989)]. 
 This invention also relates to novel viral recombinant polynucleotide molecules or vectors, which permit the expression of heterologous genes in a selected host cell. Such a polynucleotide vector of the invention comprises the polynucleotide sequence encoding all or a portion of the spheroidin or tk gene, the RNA polymerase from a selected poxvirus, and the polynucleotide sequence encoding a desired heterologous gene. Preferably, the sequence includes the regulatory region, and most preferably, the promoter region, of either the EMV spheroidin or tk gene. In addition, the source of the polymerase is not limited to EMV; rather, any poxvirus RNA polymerase may be utilized. 
 Therefore, the viral vectors may contain other viral elements contributed by another poxvirus, either vertebrate or invertebrate, with the only EPV sequences being provided by the presence of the EPV spheroidin or tk gene sequences, or fragments thereof. Numerous conventional expression viral vectors and expression systems are known in the art. Particularly desirable vectors systems are those of vertebrate or invertebrate poxviruses. The Entomopoxvirus spheroidin and tk gene regulatory sequences may be used in other virus vector systems which contain a poxvirus RNA polymerase to enhance the performance of those systems, in vaccinia vectors. Methods for the construction of expression systems, in general, and the components SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 17 thereof, including expression vectors and transformed host cells, are within the art. See, generally, methods described in standard texts, such as Sambrook et al, supra. The present invention is therefore not limited to any particular viral expression system or vector into which a polynucleotide sequence of this invention may be inserted, provided that the vector or system contains a poxvirus RNA polymerase. 
 The vectors of the invention provide a helper independent vector system, that is, the presence or absence of a functional spheroidin or tk gene in a poxvirus contributing elements to the vector, e.g., contributing the RNA polymerase, does not affect the usefulness of the resulting recombinant viral vector. 
 Because both spheroidin and tk are non-essential genes, the viral vectors of this invention do not require the presence of any other viral proteins, which in helperdependent systems are contributed by additional viruses to coinfect the selected host cell. 
 Selected host cells which, upon infection by the viral vectors will permit expression of the heterologous gene, include insect and mammalian cells. 
 Specifically, if the viral vector comprises the EPV spheroidin or tk gene sequences of the invention inserted into any member of the family Entomopoxvirinae, e.g., EPVs of any species, the host cell will be limited to cells of insects normally infected by EPVs. If the viral vector comprises the EPV spheroidin or tk gene sequences of the invention inserted into a vertebrate poxvirus, such as vaccinia or swinepox, the host cells may be selected from among the mammalian species normally infected by the wild-type vertebrate poxvirus. Most desirably, such mammalian cells may include human cells, rodent cells and primate cells, all known and available to one of skill in the art. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET ill iii-I-il-..'-i--liil^i r l 'r WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 18 According to one aspect of the subject invention, therefore, vectors of the present invention may utilize a fragment of the polynucleotide sequence of EPV spheroidin, particularly the promoter and ancillary regulatory sequences which are responsible for the naturally high levels of expression of the gene. 
 Desirably, spheroidin sequences may be found within the sequence of Fig. 2 [SEQ ID NO:1], more particularly within the region of nucleotides 2781 through 3199 [SEQ ID NO:22]. Smaller fragments within that region may also provide useful regulatory sequences. The desired spheroidin promoter sequence can be utilized to produce large quantities of a desired protein by placing it in operative association with a selected heterologous gene in viral expression vectors capable of functioning in either a vertebrate or invertebrate host cell. 
 As used herein, the term "operative association" defines the relationship between a regulatory sequence and a selected protein gele, such that the regulatory sequence is capable of directing the replication and expression of the protein in the appropriate host cell. One of skill in the art is capable of operatively associating such sequences by resort to conventional techniques. 
 Where the spheroidin polynucleotide sequence in the vector contains all or a portion of the spheroidin coding sequence in association with, or linked to, the heterologous gene, the resulting protein expressed in the host cell may be a fusion protein consisting of all or a portion of the spheroidin protein and the heterologous protein. Where the spheroidin polynucleotide sequence in the vector does not contain sufficient coding sequence for the expression of a spheroidin protein or peptide fragment, the heterologous protein may be produced alone. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET L I WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 19 In an analogous manner, the promoter and regulatory sequences of tk (Fig. 3 SEQ ID NO:8) may be employed in the construction of an expression vector to drive expression of a heterologous protein, or a fusion protein, in a selected known expression system. These tk regulatory sequences are desirably obtained from the sequence of Fig. 3 [SEQ ID NO:8], particularly in the fragment occurring between nucleotide #750 through 890 [SEQ ID NO:30]. Smaller fragments within that region may also provide useful regulatory sequences. 
 An advantage of the use of the novel EPV spheroidin or tk promoter sequences of this invention is that these regulatory sequences are capable of operating in a vertebrate poxvirus vaccinia)-mammalian cell expression vector system. For example, the strong spheroidin promoter can be incorporated into the vaccinia virus system through homologous recombination. Unlike the promoter for the baculovirus polyhedrin gene, the promoter for the EPV spheroidin gene can be utilized directly in the vaccinia or swinepox virus expression vector. 
 To construct a vector according to the present invention, the spheroidin or tk polynucleotide sequence may be isolated and purified from a selected Entomopoxvirus, AmEPV, and digested with appropriate restriction endonuclease enzymes to produce a fragment comprising all or part of the spheroidin or tk gene. Alternatively such a fragment may be chemically synthesized. 
 Still alternatively, the desired AmEPV sequences may be obtained from bacterial cultures containing the plasmids pRH512, pMEGtk-1 or pRH7. The construction of the plasmid pRH512 is described in the examples below. This plasmid contains the 4.51 kb BglII fragment AmEPV DNA sequence inserted into a BamHI site in SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 p the conventional vector pUC9. The plasmid pRH7 was constructed by digesting AmEPV genomic DNA, obtained as described in Example 1, with Bsp1286I, and the resulting fragments with HaeII. T4 DNA polymerase is employed to blunt end the AmEPV DNA and the fragment containing the spheroidin gene is ligated to the large fragment of a Smal digested pUC9 fragment. This fragment contains the entire spheroidin open reading frame and some flanking sequence, included within the nucleotide sequence spanning #2274-6182 [SEQ ID No:33] of Fig. 2. The construction of plasmid pMEGtk-1 comprising the regulatory sequences of the tk gene as well as the structural gene is described below in the Example 8. It was constructed by inserting the EcoRI-Q fragment of AmEPV into the conventional vector pUC18. 
 Bacterial cultures containing plasmids pRH512, pMEG tk-1, and pRH7 have been deposited in the American Type Culture Collection, 12301 Parklawn Drive, Rockville Maryland, USA. The deposited cultures are as follows: Culture Accession No. Deposit Date E. coli SURE strain (Stratagene) pMEG-tkl ATCC 68532 26 February 1991 E. coli SURE strain (Stratagene) pRH512 ATCC 68533 26 February 1991 E. coli pRH7 ATCC 68902 28 January 1992 The plasmids can be obtained from the deposited bacterial cultures by use of standard procedures, for example, using cleared lysate-isopycnic density gradient procedures, and the like. 
 These ATCC deposits were made under conditions that assure that access to the cultures will be available during the pendency of this patent application to one determined by the Commissioner of Patents and Trademark IG:\WPUSER\LIBVVIO 1 26:GSA 20 of 2 
 L~ 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 21 to be entitled thereto under 37 CFR 1.14 and 35 USC 122. 
 The deposits will be available as required by foreign patent laws in countries wherein counterparts of the subject application, or its progeny, are filed. However, it should be understood that the availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by government action. 
 Further, the subject culture deposit will be stored and made available to the public in accord with the provisions of the Budapest Treaty for the Deposit of Microorganisms, it will be stored with all the care necessary to keep it viable and uncontaminated for a period of at least five years after the most recent request for the furnishing of a sample of the deposit, and in any case, for a period of at least 30 (thirty) years after the date of deposit or for the enforceable life of any patent which may issue disclosing the culture. The depositor acknowledges the duty to replace the deposit should the depository be unable to furnish a sample when requested, due to the condition of the deposit. All restrictions on the availability to the public of the subject culture deposit will be irrevocably removed upon the granting of a patent disclosing it. 
 The molecular biology procedures referred to herein in describing construction of the vectors of this invention are standard, well-known procedures. The various methods employed in the preparation of the plasmid vectors and transformation or infection of host organisms are well-known in the art. These procedures are all described in, for example, Sambrook et al, cited above. Thus, it is within the skill of those in the genetic engineering art to extract DNA from microbial cells, perform restriction enzyme digestions, electrophorese DNA fragments, tail and anneal plasmid and SUBSTITUTE SHEET 
 L 
 r P i -L SWO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 22 insert DNA, ligate DNA, transform cells, prepare plasmid DNA, electrophorese proteins, and sequence DNA. 
 Because the AmEPV genome has no known unique restriction sites into which selected genes may be effectively introduced in a site-specific manner so as to be under the control of the spheroidin or tk promoter sequences, such restriction sites must be introduced into desired sites in the selected EPV polynucleotide sequence. For example, the unique BstB1 site located at nucleotide #3172 downstream from the start of the spheroidin gene is the closest site to genetically engineer a usable insertion sequence for cloning. 
 Therefore, restriction sites closer to the initiating Met of the spheroidin gene must be deliberately inserted. 
 Methods for the insertion of restriction sites are known to those of skill in the art and include, the use of an intermediate shuttle vector, by cloning the EPV sequence into the site of an appropriate cloning vehicle. It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that any suitable cloning vehicle may be utilized provided that the spheroidin or tk gene and flanking viral DNA may be functionally incorporated. 
 A spheroidin shuttle vector may be constructed to include elements of the spheroidin structural gene, a cloning site located or introduced in the gene to enable the selected heterologous gene to be properly inserted into the viral genome adjacent to, and under the control of, the spheroidin promoter, and flanking viral DNA linked to either side of the spheroidin gene to facilitate insertion of the spheroidin-foreign geneflanking sequence into another expression vector. The presence of flanking viral DNA also facilitates recombination with the wild type Entomopoxvirus, allowing the transfer of a selected gene into a replicating viral genome. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET L WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 23 The shuttle vectors may thereafter be modified for insertion of a selected gene by deleting some or all of the sequences encoding for spheroidin or tk synthesis near the respective transcriptional start sites. 
 Examples of such sites in spheroidin are nucleotides #3077 and 3080 and in tk includes nucleotide #809. 
 Conventional procedures are available to delete spheroidin or tk coding sequences. 
 As an alternative to or in addition to the restriction site, a variety of synthetic or natural oligonucleotide linker sequences may be inserted at the site of the deletion. A polynucleotide linker sequence, which may be either a natural or synthetic oligonucleotide, may be inserted at the site of the deletion to allow the coupling of DNA segments at that site. One such linker sequence may provide an appropriate space between the two linked sequences, e.g., between the promoter sequence and the gene to be expressed. Alternatively, this linker sequence may encode, if desired, a polypeptide which is selectively cleavable or digestible by conventional chemical or enzymatic methods. For example, the selected cleavage site may be an enzymatic cleavage site, including sites for cleavage by a proteolytic enzyme, such as enterokinase, factor Xa, trypsin, collegenase and thrombin. Alternatively, the cleavage site in the linker may be a site capable of being cleaved upon exposure to a selected chemical, e.g. cyanogen bromide or hydroxylamine. The cleavage site, if inserted into a linker useful in the sequences of this invention, does not limit this invention. Any desired cleavage site, of which many are known in the art, may be used for this purpose. In another alternative, the linker sequence may encode one or a series of restriction sites. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET i i WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 24 It will be recognized by those skilled in the art who have the benefit of this disclosure that linker sequences bearing an appropriate restriction site need not be inserted in place of all or a portion of the spheroidin structural sequence, and that it would be possible to insert a linker in locations in the Entomopoxvirus genome such that both the sequence coding for the selected polypeptide and the spheroidin structural sequence would be expressed. For instance, the sequence coding for the selected polypeptide could be inserted into the tk gene in place of all or a portion of the tk structural sequence and under the transcriptional control of the tk promoter. 
 Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques can also be used to introduce convenient restriction sites into the EPV DNA, as well as to amplify specific regions of the EPV DNA. These techniques are well known to those skilled in this art. See, for example, PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications, M. A. Innis, D. H. 
 Gelfand, J. J. Sninsky, and T. J. White, (1990). 
 By use of these techniques, a variety of alternative modified shuttle vectors into which a selected gene or portion thereof may be incorporated may be s:itably utilized in the present invention. 
 As one embodiment of the invention, therefore, the polynucleotide sequence, described above, may be used as a shuttle vector to transfer a selected heterologous gene to a selected virus. In this embodiment, the polynucleotide sequence encoding the EMV spheroidin gene 1 or EMV tk gene, or a fragment thereof, is linked to a Sheterologous gene. The polynucleotide sequence further contains a flanking region on either side of the spheroidir-heterologous gene or tk-heterologous gene to enable ready transfer into a selected virus. This resulting construct is termed a cassette. Such a SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 III I WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 flanking region may be derived from EPV, or alternatively, may be complementary to the target virus. 
 For example, if it is desirable to insert a selected heterologous gene into a vaccinia virus to create a recombinant virus, one would utilize flanking regions complementary to the targeted vaccinia virus. Similarly if the heterologous gene is inserted within the EPV spheroidin or tk gene, so that the selected EPV regulatory sequence and heterologous gene are flanked by the EPV gene's own sequences, this cassette may be used for transfer into a wild type EPV having homologous sequences to the flanking sequences. 
 The insertion or linkage of the foreign gene into the tk or spheroidin sequences of the present invention or the linkage of flanking sequences foreign to the spheroidin or tk genes may be accomplished as described above. The vectors of the subject invention may use cDNA clones of foreign genes, because poxvirus genes contain no introns, presumably as a consequence of a totally cytoplasmic site of infection. 
 In accordance with standard cloning techniques, any selected gene may be inserted into the vector at an available restriction site to produce a recombinant shuttle vector. Virtually any gene of interest could be inserted into the vectors described herein in order to obtain high expression of the desired protein. 
 Restriction sites in the fragment may thereafter be removed so as to produce a preferred spheroidin or tk shuttle vector, having one or more cleavage or cloning sites located in the 3' direction downstream from the 4 spheroidin promoter sequence. Thus, the present invention is not limited by the selection of the heterologous gene. 
 Alternatively, a vector of this invention may comprise a heterologous gene which is inserted into all SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 26 or a portion of the EMV sphercidin or tk protein encoding sequence to interrupt the protein's natural processing. 
 However, when the vector is transferred to another virus which contains a wild-type spheroidin or tk gene, expression of the inserted heterologous gene is obtained. 
 Thus, the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene (Fig. 2 SEQ ID NO:1) and/or the tk gene (Fig. 3 SEQ ID NO:8) can be used as the location for the insertion of exogenous or heterologous DNA in any of the above-mentioned expression systems. A shuttle vector so constructed may be useful as a marker for research and production techniques for identifying the presence of successfully integrated heterologous genes into the selected expression system. 
 The tk gene is a particularly desirable site for insertion of a selected heterologous gene. Unlike spheroidin, tk is produced early in infection and in lesser quantities. Additionally, many poxviruses possess tk genes which may be sufficiently homologous to the EPV tk to provide easy recombination. For example, in vaccinia virus expression systems for mammalian cells, the vaccinia tk gene is a common insertion site. 
 Therefore, the use of this gene is particularly desirable for construction of a shuttle vector to shuttle selected genes directly between vector systems. More specifically, a foreign gene may be desirably inserted into the EPV tk gene sequence between nucleotide #460 and #560 (See Fig. 3). 
 Insertion of cassettes containing foreign genes into wild-type poxviruses can be accomplished by homologous recombination. The homologous recombination techniques used to insert the genes of interest into the viruses of the invention are well known to those skilled in the art. The shuttle vectors, when co-infected into host cells with a wild-type virus, transfer the cassette containing the selected gene into the virus by homologous SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 n WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 ii 27 recombination, thereby creating recombinant virus vectors. 
 Expression of a selected gene is accomplished by infecting susceptible host insect cells with the recombinant viral vector of this invention in an appropriate medium for growth. An EPV expression vector is piopagated in insect cells or insects through replication and assembly of infectious virus particles. 
 These infectious vectors can be used to produce the selected gene in suitable insect cells, thus facilitating the efficient expression of the selected DNA sequence in the infected cell. If the EPV spheroidin gene (or tk gene) heterologous gene fragment is inserted into a vertebrate poxvirus by the same methods as described above, the recombinant virus may be used to infect mammalian cells and produce the heterologous protein in the mammalian cells. 
 For exampl-, a gene inserted into the-tk site of a vaccinia virus system could be transferred directly to the tk locus of an Entomopoxvirus vector of the subject invention or vice versa. This shuttling could be accomplished, for example, using homologous recombination. Similarly insertion of a selected gene into the spi.iroidin gene or tk gene in a viral vector permits the gene to be shuttled into other viruses having homologous spheroidin or tk sequences, respectively. 
 The following description illustrates an exemplary vector of this invention, employing the gene coding for human f-interferon (IFN-0) synthesis as the heterologous gene. A DNA fragment containing the IFN-0 gene is prepared conventionally with restriction enzyme digested or blunt ended termini and cloned into a suitable site in the AmEPV spheroidin gene, into which a restriction site has been engineered by the methods described above. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 I O .r WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 28 The insertion of the IFN-3 gene produces a hybrid or fused spheroidin-IFN-0 gene capable of producing a fused polypeptide product if only a portion of the spheroidin gene was deleted as described above. 
 If the entire spheroidin structural sequence was deleted, only interferon will be produced. Further, the hybrid gene may comprise the spheroidin promoter, the IFN-0 protein coding sequences, and sequences encoding a portion of the polypeptide sequence of the spheroidin protein, provided all such coding sequences are not deleted from the particular shuttle vector utilized. 
 The resulting shuttle vector contains the AmEPV spheroidin gene sequence coupled to the IFN- gene. The hybrid spheroidin-IFN-0 gene of the recombinant shuttle vector is thereafter transferred into the genome of an appropriate Entomopoxvirus, such as the preferred Entomopoxvirus AmEPV, to produce a recombinant viral expression vector capable of expressing the gene encoding for -interferon in a host insect cell. Transfer of the hybrid gene to a wild-type virus is accomplished by processes which are well known to those skilled in the art. For example, appropriate insect cells may be infected with the wild type Entomopoxvirus. These infected cells are then transfected with the shuttle vector of the subject invention. These procedures are described, for example, in DNA Cloning: A Practical SApproach, Vol. II, Edited by D. M. Glover, Chapter 7, 1985. A person skilled in the art could choose appropriate insect cells to be used according to the subject invention. By way of example, salt marsh caterpillars and cultured gypsy moth cells can be used. 
 During replication of the AmEPV DNA after transfection, the hybrid gene is transferred to the wildtype AmEPV by homologous recombination between the recombinant shuttle vector and AmEPV DNA. Accordingly, a SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 _J i i ^B i^ ^B B I^ WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 29 mixture is produced comprising wild-type, nonrecombinant EPVs and recombinant EPVs capable of expressing the IFN-0 gene. 
 While transfection is the preferred process for transfer of the hybrid gene into the EPV genome, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that other procedures may be suitably utilized so as to effect the insertion of the gene into the EPV genome and that recombination may be accomplished between the recombinant shuttle vector and other strains of EPV (or other poxviruses) so long as there is sufficient homology between the sequence of the hybrid gene and the corresponding sequence of the other strain to allow recombination to occur. 
 The preferred recombinant AmEPV expression vector, comprising a hybrid spheroidin-IFN-f gene incorporated into the AmEPV genome, can thereafter be selected from the mixture of nonrecombinant and recombinant Entomopoxviruses. The preferred, but by no means only, method of selection is by screening for plaques formed by host insect cells infected with viruses that do not produce viral occlusions. Selection may be performed in this manner because recombinant EPV viruses which contain the spheroidin or tk protein coding sequences interrupted by the heterologous gene are defective in the production of viral occlusions due to the insertional inactivation of the spheroidin gene. 
 Also, the selection procedure may involve the use of the 0-galactosidase gene to facilitate color selection. This procedure involves the incorporation of the E. coli 0-galactosidase gene into the shuttle vector and is well known to those skilled in the art. This technique may be of particular value if the exogenous DNA is inserted into the tk gene so that the spheroidin gene is still expressed. It will be recognized by those SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 r I-  
 I 
 i 1 i WO 92/14818 PCr/US92/00855 skilled in the art that alternative selection procedures may also be utilized in accordance with the present invention. 
 Accordingly, the DNA from a recombinant virus is thereafter purified and may be analyzed with appropriate restriction enzymes, or PCR technology, to confirm that the recombinant AmEPV vector has an insertion of the selected gene in the proper location. 
 The vectors and methods provided by the present invention are characterized by several advantages over known vectors and vector systems. Advantageously, such EPV viral vectors of the present invention are not oncogenic or tumorigenic in mammals. Also, the regulatory signals governing Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus (AmEPV) gene expressions are similar to those of vaccinia. Therefore, it is possible to transfer the strongly expressed spheroidin gene, or the thymidine kinase gene, as an expression cassette, not only in insect cells, but for use in vertebrate poxviruses such as vaccinia and swinepox virus. 
 Based on reported data with vaccinia, herpes and baculovirus vector systems, which suggest that up to kb can be transferred without disrupting the vector viability, the normal limitation on the amount of exogenous DNA which can be packaged into a virus is not anticipated to be encountered when using the novel EPV vectors and methods of the subject invention. 
 Another advantage is that for the novel vectors of the subject invention, the transcription and translation of foreign proteins is totally cytoplasmic. 
 Still another advantage lies in the expression power of the EPV spheroidin regulatory sequences, which when in operative association with a heterologous gene in a vector of this invention, should produce high levels of SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 I 
 WO 92/14818 PCr/US92/00855 31 heterologous protein expression in the selected host cell. 
 The EPV vectors of this invention and methods for employing them to express selected heterologous proteins in insect or mammalian cells, as described above, are characterized by the advantage of replication in insect cells, which avoids the use of mammalian viruses, thereby decreasing the possibility of contamination of the product with mammalian virus. The expression system of this invention is also a helper independent virus expression vector system. These two characteristics are shared by known baculovirus expression systems. However, as shown in Table 1, the EPV expression vector system (EEVS) using the vectors of this invention has some important distinguishing features compared to the baculovirus expression systems (BEVS). 
 Table 1 Differences between EEVs and BEVS EEVs 
 BEVS 
 Site of replication: Virus family: Sites for insertion of foreign genes Shuttle possibilities between vertebrate and insect systems: cytoplasm nucleus Poxviridae spheroidin thymidine kinase (tk) yes (Orthopoxviruses) (Leporipoxviruses) (Suipoxviruses) (Avipoxviruses) Baculoviridae polyhedrin pl0 No mammalian counterparts. 
 Baculovirus is not known to contain a tk gene. 
 Polyhedrin is not found in mammalian systems. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 32 The present invention also provides a method for screening recombinant host cells for insertion of heterologous genes is provided by use of the recombinant viral polynucleotide molecules of this invention. The viral molecules containi'ij the selected heterologous gene sequence linked to the polynucleotide sequence encoding less than all of the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin protein. 
 The heterologous gene may be linked to the spheroidin or tk regulatory sequences in the absence of the complete coding sequences, or it may be inserted into the spheroidin or tk gene coding sequences, thus disrupting the coding sequence. The cell infected with the recombinant vector is cultured under conditions suitable for expression of the heterologous protein, either unfused or as a fusion protein with a portion of the spheroidin sequence. The absence of occlusion bodies which would ordinarily be formed by the expression of the intact spheroidin protein indicates the integration of the heterologous gene. 
 If the viral vector similarly contained either incomplete or interrupted EPV tk encoding sequence, the absence of thymidine kinase function resistance to methotrexate or an analogue thereof) formed by the integration of the inactive thymidine kinase sequence indicates the insertion of the heterologous gene. 
 Alternatively, if a parent virus is deleted of part of its tk or spheroidin gene, and is thereafter mixed with a viral vector containing intact tk or spheroidin fused to the foreign gene, recombinants would express the methotrexate resistance or produce occlusion bodies, respectively, thus indicating integration of the active tk or spheroidin genes and the foreign gene. 
 The above-described selection procedures provide effective and convenient means for selection of recombinant Entomopoxvirus expression vectors. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 33 Another embodiment of the present invention involves using novel EPV expression systems of the subject invention for insect control. Control of insect pests can be accomplished by em ,loying the vectors and methods of the invention as described above. For example, a gene coding for an selected insect toxin may be inserted into the viral expression vector under the control of the spheroidin or tk regulatory sequences or within either of the two genes for purposes of recombination into a selected virus having homologous flanking regions. 
 Genes which code for insect toxins are well known to those skilled in the art. An exemplary toxin gene isolated from Bacillus thuringiensis can be used according to the subject invention. B.t. genes are described, for example, in U. S. Patent Nos. 4,775,131 and 4,865,981. Other known insect toxins may also be employed in this method. 
 The resulting EPV vector containing the toxin gene is applied to the target pest or its surroundings. 
 Advantageously, the viral vector will infect the target pest, and large quantities of the toxin will be produced, thus resulting in the control of the pest. Particularly large quantities of the toxin protein can be produced if the regulatory sequences of the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene are used to express the toxin. 
 Alternatively, the spheroidin gene can be left intact and the toxin gene inserted into a different Entomopoxvirus gene such as the tk gene. In this construct, the toxin will be produced by the system and then effectively coated or encapsulated by the natural viral production of spheroidin. This system thus produces a toxin which will advantageously persist in the environment to prolong the availability to the target pest. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 34 In addition to the novel Entomopoxvirus expression vectors and methods for their use described herein, the subject invention pertains to the u:;e of novel regulatory elements from Entomopoxvirus to construct novel chimeric vaccinia and swinepox vaccines and expression systems which are functional across genera of mammalian poxviruses. The polynucleotide sequences of the invention can also be used with viral vaccines, e.g., known vaccinia virus vaccines, to enhance the effectiveness of these vaccines. Such vaccines have been described for use in controlling rabies and other infectious diseases in mammals. Specifically, it is anticipated that the introduction of the EPV spheroidin promoter sequences into known viral vectors which are used to express selected proteins in a mammalian host in vivo may enable the powerful spheroidin promoter to increase expression of the protein in the viral vaccine, This aspect of the invention provides a significant improvement over other expression systems, including the baculovirus expression system (BEVS). 
 The following examples illustrate the compositions and procedures, including the best mode, for practicing the invention. These examples, should not be construed as limiting. All percentages are by weight and all solvent mixture proportions are by volume unless otherwise noted. The restriction enzymes disclosed herein can be purchased from Bethesda Research Laboratories, Gaithersburg, MD, or New England Biolabs, SBeverly, MA. The enzymes are used according to the instructions provided by the supplier. Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase, T4 polynucleotide kinase, and T4 DNA ligase were obtained from New England Biolabs and Promega. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 7 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 EXAMPLE 1: PREPARATION OF AmEPV DNA The replication of AmEPV has been described previously H. Goodwin et al, J. Invertebr. Pathol., 56:190-205 (1990)]. The gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) cell line IPLB-LD-652 [Insect Pathology Laboratory, Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Beltsville, MD] is maintained at 26 to 28 0 
 C 
 in EX-CELL 400 [JRH Biosciences, Lenexa, KS] supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, 100 U of penicillin, and 100 ug of streptomycin per ml. Other insect cell lines are well known to those skilled in the art and can be used according to the subject invention. 
 The AmEPV inoculum for cell culturing was from an AmEPV-infected, freeze-dried E. acrea larva stored at -700C L. Hall et al, Arch. Virol., 110:77-90 (1990)]. The larva was crushed and macerated in 5 ml of EX-CELL 400 (with penicillin and streptomycin but without fetal bovine serum) to which 0.003 g of cysteine-HCl had been added to prevent melanization. The debris was pelleted at 200 x g for 5 minutes, and the supernatant was passed through a 0.45-Am-pore-size filter. 
 The gypsy moth cells were infected with AmEPV by addition of the inoculum to a preconfluent monolayer of cells (about 0.1 to 1 PFU per cell), with occasional agitation of the dish during the first day. Infected cells were harvested 5 to 6 days postinfection. 
 AmEPV DNA was prepared from the infected cells by one of two methods. The first method involved in situ digestion of infected cells embedded within agarose plugs, after which the released cellular and viral DNAs were separated by pulsed-field electrophoresis [Bio-Rad CHEF-II-DR system]. IPLB-LD-652 cells were infected with first-cell-culture-passage AmEPV. Infected cells were harvested 6 days postinfection by centrifugation at 200 x g for 5 minutes, rinsed, and resuspended in modified SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 36 Hank's phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), which contained g of glucose per liter, but no Ca 2 or Mg". 
 For embedding of the infected cells in agarose plugs, 1% SeaPlaque GTG agarose (prepared in modified Hank's PBS and equilibrated at 37 0 C) was mixed 1:1 with infected cells to yield 5 x 106 cells per ml in agarose. Digestion to release DNA was done by gentle shaking of the inserts in 1% Sarkosyl-0.5 M EDTA-1 mg of proteinase K per ml at 500C for 2 days L. Smith et al, Methods Enzvmol., 151:461-489 (1987)]. The CHEF-II- DR parameters for DNA separation were 180 V, a pulse ratio of 1, 50 initial and 90 second final pulse times, and a run time of 20 to 25 hours at 40C. The separating gel was 1% SeaKem GTG agarose in 0.5x TBE buffer [Sambrook et al, supra]. Viral DNA bands were visualized by ethidium bromide staining and electroeluted B. 
 7llington et al, Anal. Biochem., 85:188-196 (1978)]. The recovered DNA was used for plasmid cloning following ethanol precipitation. 
 The second method of viral DNA preparation used the extracellular virus found in the infected-cellculture supernatant. The supernatant from postinfection cell cultures was clarified by centrifugation at 200 x g for 5 minutes. Virus was collected from the supernatant by centrifugation at 12,000 x g. Viral pellets were resuspended in 6 ml of Ix TE. DNase I and RNase A (10 and 20 Ag/ml final concentrations, respectively) were added, and the mixture Swas incubated at 37 0 C for 30 minutes. The mixture was heated to 50 0 C for 15 minutes. SDS and proteinase K (1% Sand 200 Ag/ml, respectively) were then added. The sample was incubated to 50 0 C overnight and extracted three times with buffer-saturated phenol and once with SEVAG [Sambrook et al, supra]. The DNA was ethanol precipitated and resuspended in Ix TE (pH 8). 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET h WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 37 For routine virus quantitation, 1 ml of an appropriate virus dilution (prepared in unsupplemented EX-CELL 400) was added to a preconfluent monolayer of cells in a 60 mm culture dish, with intermittent agitation over a 5 hour adsorption period at 26 to 28 0 
 C. 
 The virus inoculum was removed, and 5 ml of a 0.75% SeaPlaque agarose [FMC BioProducts, Rockland, ME] overlay prepared with 2x EX-CELL 400 and equilibrated at 37 0 C was added to the monolayer. Plaques were visualized after days of incubation at 26 0 C by inspection with a stereomicroscope. 
 The DNA prepared according to either method was then cut with a variety of restriction endonuclease enzymes, Bam HI, EcoRI, HindIII, PstI and XhoI, generating the various fragments which appear on the physical map of Fig. 1. Hereafter, refere,. 2 to each restriction fragment will refer to the enzyme and the applicable letter, BamHI-A through BamHI-E, EcoRI-A through EioRI-S, etc. 
 EXAMPLE 2 ISOLATION OF THE SPHEROTIIN GENE To localize the spheroidin gene, a purified preparation of occlusion bodies (OBs) from infected caterpillars was solubilized and subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS- PAGE) K. Laemmli, Nature (London), 227:680-685 (1970)] with a 4% acrylamide stacking gel and a separating gel. The acrylamide used to prepare spheroidin for protein microsequencing was deionized with AG501X8 resin [Bio-Rad, Richmond, CA]. The gels were polymerized overnight at 4 0 C. For sample preparation, 2x Laemmli sample buffer consisting of 125 mM Tris-HCl (pH 4% SDS 10% /-mercaptoethanol and glycerol was used. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 i f I WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 38 OB suspension samples were diluted 1:1 with 2x Laemmli sample buffer and boiled for 5 minutes. Several lanes of an OB protein preparation were separated electrophoretically. The spheroidin protein (113 kDa) was the predominant protein of the purified OBs. 
 Spheroidin within SDS-polyacrylamide gels was tested for glycosylation by periodic acid-Schiff staining M. 
 Zacharius et al, Anal. Biochem., 30:149-152 (1969)]. 
 Following electrophoretic separation, several lanes in the unstained gel were transferred to an Immobilon polyvinylidene d.Lfluoride (PVDF) membrane with a Bio-Rad TransBlot apparatus at 90 V for 2 hours in a buffer consisting of 10 mM morpholinepropanesulfonic acid (pH 6.0) and 20% methanol. Spheroidin was visualized on the PVDF membrane by Coomassie blue staining. 
 The region of the PVDF membrane containing spheroidin was excised from the membrane, and direct protein microsequencing was done with an Applied Biosystems gas-phase sequencer. Microsequencing of the intact protein was unsuccessful, presumably because the N terminus of the protein was blocked. 
 Cyanogen bromide cleavage was performed on samples of spheroidin eluted from the PVDF membrane to generate internal peptide fragments for sequencing. 
 Major polypeptides of 15, 9, 8, and 6.2 kDa were produced. 
 EXAMPLE 3 SEQUENCING. HYBRIDIZATIONS All DNA sequencing was done by the dideoxy chain termination method Sanger et al, Proc. Natl. 
 Acad. Sci. USA, 74:5463-5467 (1977)] with [a- 35 S]dATP and Sequenase [US Biochemical, Cleveland, OH]. Standard sequencing reactions with Sequenase were carried out in accordance with the instructions of the supplier, US Biochemical. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 SI1 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 39 SA reliable amino acid sequence was obtained from the 9, 8, and 6.2 kDa polypeptides produced as described in Example 3. The 8 and 9 kDa polypeptides represented overlapping partial CNBr cleavage products which together yielded the longest continuous amino acid sequence: Met-Ala-(Asn or Arg)-Asp-Leu-Val-Ser-Leu-Leu- Phe-Met-(Asn or Arg)-(?)-Tyr-Val-(Asn?)-Ile-Glu-Ile-Asn- Glu-Ala-Val-(?)-(Glu?) [SEQ ID NO:34]. The amino acid sequence obtained from the 6.2 kDa fragment was Met-Lys- Ile-Thr-Ser-Ser-Thr-Glu-Val-Asp-Pro-Glu-Tyr-Val-(Thr or Ile)-Ser-(Asn?) [SEQ ID NO:35]. A partial sequence for the 15 kDa fragment was also obtained: (Asn?)-Ala-Leu- Phe-(Phe?)(Asn?)-Val-Phe [SEQ ID NO:36]. The question marks in the above sequences indicated undetermined or unconfirmed amino acids. All sequences were ultimately located within the spheroidin gene sequence. 
 EXAMPLE 4 PLASMID pRH512 A BqlII AmEPV DNA library was prepared by digesting the genomic AmEPV DNA with BglII according to manufacturer's instructions. Plasmid pUC9 [GIBCO; Bethesda Research Labs] was BamHI-digested and phosphatase-treated. The genomic BclII cut AmEPV was shotgun cloned into the BamHI site of pUC9. Escherichia coli SURE [Stratagene, La Jolla, CA] was transformed by electroporation with a Bio-Rad Gene Pulser following the instructions provided by the manufacturer with the shotgun ligation, containing a variety of recombinant plasmids. Mini-preparations of plasmids were made by a conventional alkaline lysis procedure [Sambrook et al, supra]. These plasmids were cut with EcoRI-SalI to release the insert and run on a gel. The resulting plasmid DNA was southern blotted to a nylon membrane, producing a number of clones. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 Among the fragments produced from the restriction enzyme digestions of the genomic DNA was a I 4.4 BglII fragment and an EcoRI-D fragment. In order to locate a desirable clone from among those produced above, the sequence derived from the 6.2 kDa CNBr fragment was used to design a degenerate oligonucleotide for use as a hybridization probe to locate the spheroidin gene in a clone. The nucleotide sequence of this probe called RM58 [SEQ ID NO:12] was GA5GT7GA6CC7GA5TA6GT, where represents A or G, 6 represents C or T, and 7 represents A, G, C, or T. The peptide sequence of the probe was: Glu-Val-Asp-Pro-Glu-Tyr-Val [SEQ ID NO:37]. 
 The DNA probe was radiolabeled either with [a- 2 P]dCTP by the random oligonucleotide extension method P. Feinberg et al, Anal. Biochem., 132:6-13 (1983)] or with [y- 32 P]ATP and T4 polynucleotide kinase [Sambrook et al, supra]. These same procedures were used for all other oligonucleotide probes described below. Both types of probes were purified by passage through spun columns of Sephadex Southern transfer was done with Hybond-N [Amersham]; the transferred DNA was fixed to the membrane by UV cross-linking. Southern hybridization was performed both with transferred DNA including the restriction fragments described above, as well as the BglII library of AmEPV DNA cloned into BamHI-digested plasmid pUC9 as described above. Hybridization with the oligonucleotide probe was done at 37 or 45 0 C with BLOTTO [Sambrook et al, supra] and was followed by two washes at room temperature with 0.3 M NaCl-0.06 M Tris (pH 8)-2 mM EDTA for 5 minutes. 
 The RM58 probe [SEQ ID NO:12] hybridized to the 4.4 kb BclII fragment and the EcoRI-D fragment of AmEPV DNA [See Fig. A plasmid produced by the shotgun cloning, recombinant pRH512 (a BqlII 4.56 kb fragment SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 c WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 41 inserted into the BamHI site of pUC9 which contains about kb of the 5' end of the spheroidin gene) was also identified by this hybridization with the RM58 oligonucleotide [SEQ ID NO:12]. 
 The 4.51 kb pRH512 BglII insert was isolated, radiolabeled as described above, and hybridized -k to various AmEPV genomic digests as follows. The DNA-DNA hybridization was done at 65 0 C with BLOTTO [Sambrook et al, supra] and was followed by two washes at room temperature with 0.3 M NaCl-0.06 M Tris (pH 8)-2 mM EDTA for 5 minutes, two washes for 15 minutes each at 65 0 C but with 0.4% SDS added, and two washes at room temperature with 0.03 M NaCl-0.06 M Tris (pH 8)-0.2 mM EDTA. 
 Hybridization was observed to the BamHI-A, EcoRI-D, HindIII-G and PstI-A, and XhoI-B fragments of AmEPV DNA. The results of these hybridizations indicated that the 4.51 kb fragment in pRH512 was substantially identical to the 4.4 kb fragment produced by 3glII digestion of genomic DNA. 
 The 4.51 kb BglII insert of pRH512 was thereafter sequenced by two procedures. One is the double-stranded plasmid sequencing method Hattori et al, Anal. Biochem., 152:232-238 (1986)] performed with "miniprep" [Sambrook et al, supra] DNA and 1 pmol of universal, reverse, or custom-designed oligonucleotide primer in each sequencing reaction. Nested exonuclease II deletions Henikoff, Methods Enzvmol., 155:156-165 (1987)] were used to sequence plasmid pRH512 according to this method. Deletions were made from the universal primer end. For making these deletions, the DNA was cut with EcoRI, filled in with a-thiophosphate dNTPs D. 
 Putney et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 78:7350-7354 (1981)] by use of the Klenow fragment of E. coli DNA polymerase, cut with SmaI, and treated with exonuclease III. Samples were removed every 30 seconds, re-ligated, SUBSTITUTE SHEET iI SWO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 42 and used to transform E. coli SURE cells by electroporation. Sequencing reactions were carried out with the universal primer. 
 When a primer complementary to that sequence was prepared and used to sequence back through the RM58 binding site (bases 3983 to 4002), the generated sequence, when translated, yielded the amino acid sequence generated from microsequencing the 6.2 kDa CNBr polypeptide fragment. 
 A second sequencing method was performed using a combination of M12 shotgun sequencing with standard and universal and reverse M13 primers into M13 phage to permit single-stranded sequencing as follows. Plasmid pRH512 was sonicated to produce random fragments, repaired with bacteriophage T4 DNA polymerase, and these fragments were shotgun cloned into SmaI-cut M13mpl9 [GIBCO]. Plaque lifts were screened with a radiolabeled probe prepared from the 4.5 kb insert found in pRH512 to identify appropriate clones for shotgun single stranded sequencing [see, Sambrook et al, supra]. 
 Sequencing of the BqlII insert of pRH512 isolated it to nucleotides 0 to 4505, thus extending the sequence and 3' to the spheroidin gene (Fig. 2). 
 EXAMPLE 5 OBTAINING ADDITIONAL AmEPV SEQUENCE A Dral AmEPV DNA library was prepared by digesting genomic DNA with Dral. These Dral fragments were shotgun cloned into SmaI-digested, phosphatasetreated vector M13mpl9. Preparations of M13 virus and DNA were made by standard r:-ocedures Sambrook et al, supra]. Ligation and heat shock transformation procedures were performed conventionally [Sambrook et al, supra.], resulting in the shotgun cloned fragments being transformed into the bacterial strain, E. coli UT481 [University of Tennessee] or the SURE strain. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 7f WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 43 Standard PCR [Innis et al, supra] with 400 ng of genomic AmEPV DNA as a template was used to prepare a probe to identify a 586 bp DraI clone from nitrocellulose filter replicas (plaque lifts) [Micron Separations, Inc.] of the M13 shotgun library of DraI-cut AmEPV fragments. 
 This was done to isolate a clone spanning a central unsequenced region of the spheroidin gene. The standard PCR primers used for this reaction were RM92 [SEQ ID (GCCTGGTTGGGTAACACCTC) and RM118 [SEQ ID NO: 16] (CTGCTAGATTATCTACTCCG). This sequencing revealed that there was a single HindIII site at base 931 and that the 2' end of the spheroidin open reading frame (ORF) was truncated (Fig. 2). 
 The technique of inverse polymerase chain reaction (PCR) A. Innis et al, PCR protocol, a guide to methods and applications, Academic Press, Inc. San Diego, CA (1990)] was used with Clal-digested AmEPV DNA fragments which were ligated into a circle, to prepare a probe to identify clones containing a flanking sequence or to verify the absence of an intervening sequence between adjacent clones. The primers used in inverse PCR were RM82 and RM83, which were taken from the pRH512 sequence. The sequence of RM82 [SEQ ID NO:13] was TTTCAAATTAACTGGCAACC and that of RM83 [SEQ ID NO:14] was 
 GGGATGGATTTTAGATTGCG. 
 The specific PCR reaction conditions for 34 cycles were as follows: 30 seconds at 94 0 C for denaturation, 30 seconds at 37 0 C for annealing, and minutes at 72 0 C for extension. Finally, the samples were incubated at 72 0 C to 8.5 minutes to complete extensions. 
 The concentration of each primer was 1 AM. 
 The resulting 2.2 kb inverse PCR product was digested with Clal, and a 1.7 kb fragment was gel purified. The 1.7 kb PCR fragment was sequenced with RM83 as a primer. Additional PCR primers were made to SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCr/US92/00855 
 I 
 I 
 the new sequence as it was identified. The sequencing process employed Sequenase, 5 pmol of each primer, and to 50 ng of template. Prior to being sequenced, the PCR products were chloroform extracted and purified on spun columns [Sambrook et al, supra] of Sephacryl S-400. The DNA sequence was assembled and aligned, and consensus sequence was produced Staden, Nucleic Acids Res., 10:4731-4751 (1982)]. Both strands were completely sequenced; the PCR product sequence was verified by conventional sequence. 
 The relevant Clal sites of the 1.7 kb PCR fragment are at positions 3485 and 6165. This fragment was radiolabeled and used as a probe to locate additional clones, pRH827 (307 bp), pRH85 (1.88 kb), and pRH87 (1.88 kb) from the BglII fragment library. Plasmids and pRH87 were sequenced using the same nested exonuclease II deletions and sequencing procedure, as described above for pRH512. Sequencing of the inverse PCR products with custom-designed primers confirmed that plasmids pRH85 and pRH87 represented the same 1.88 kb BqlII DNA insert in opposite orientations, but also revealed a missing 80 bp between pRH827 and pRH85. This bp DNA fragment was identified in the Dral fragment, as extending from bases 4543 to 5128 cloned into M13. 
 The orientation of the spheroidin ORF on the physical map is shown in Fig. 1. It is interesting to note that the 1.7 kb inverse PCR fragment only hybridized to the AmEPV HindIII-G fragment. The amino acid sequence derived from the 8 and 9 kDa overlapping CnBr-generated polypeptides is found from nucleotide positions 4883 to 4957 [SEQ ID NO:38]. That derived from the 6.2 kDa polypeptide is found from nucleotides 3962 to 4012 [SEQ ID NO:39], and that derived from the 15 kDa polypeptide is found from nucleotides 4628 to 4651 [SEQ ID Therefore, all sequences obtained from protein SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 1 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 microsequencing were ultimately found to lie within the spheroidin ORF. 
 EXAMPLE 6 SPHEROIDIN GENE TRANSCRIPTION The start site for spheroidin gene transcription was determined. A primer complementary to the spheroidin gene sequence beginning 65 bp downstream of the predicted initiating methionine was prepared and used for a series of primer extensions. 
 A. Preparation of RNA and primer extension reactions. 
 Six 150 mm dishes of subconfluent cells were prepared. The culture media were aspirated, and 2 ml of viral inoculum was added to each dish. The virus concentration was about 0.1 to 1 PFU per cell. The dishes were occasionally agitated during a 3 hour adsorption period. At the end of this period, the cells were rinsed with 5 ml of modified PBS. The media were replaced, and the infected cells were incubated for 72 hours at 27 0 C. Total RNA from the infected cells was isolated by the guanidinium thiocyanate-cesium chloride procedure M. Chirgwin et al, Biochemistry, 18:5294- 5299 (1979)]. 
 Primer extension reactions were carried out with primer RM165 [SEQ ID NO:17], a oligonucleotide (GTTCGAAACAAGTATTTTCATCTTTTAAATAAATC) beginning and ending 100 and 65 bp downstream, respectively, of the initiating methionine codon found in the TAAATG motif. The primer was end labeled with [7- "P]ATP and T4 polynucleotide kinase and purified on a "spun column" [Sambrook et al, supra]. For annealing, gg of total infected-cell RNA and 106 cpm of radiolabeled primer were coprecipitated with ethanol. The pellet was resuspended in 25 Al of hybridization buffer formamide, 40 mM piperazine-N,N'-bis(2-ethanesulfonic SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 46 acid) (pH 400 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA (pH denatured at 72 0 C for 15 minutes, and incubated at 300C for 18 hours. 
 For primer extension, the RNA-primer hybrids were ethanol precipitated, resuspended, and used for five individual reactions. Each reaction contained 8 Ag of total infected-cell RNA, 50 mM Tris-HCl, (pH 50 mM KC1, 10 mM dithiothreitol, 10 mM MgCl 2 4 U of avian myeloblastosis virus reverse transcriptase (Life Sciences), 8 U of RNasin (Promega), 0.25 mM each deoxynucleoside triphosphate (dNTP), and the appropriate dideoxynucleoside triphosphate (ddNTP), except for a control reaction, which contained no ddNTP. The dNTP/ddNTP ratios were 4:1, 5:1, 5:1, and 2:1, for the C, T, A, and G reactions, respectively. The reactions were carried out at 42C for 30 minutes. 
 One microliter of chase buffer (4 pl of 5 mM dNTP mixture and 1 1l of 20-U/gl reverse transcriptase) was added to each reaction mixture, which was then incubated for an additional 30 minutes at 420C. Reaction products were separated on a sequencing gel (8% acrylamide containing 7 M urea) and visualized by autoradiography. Complementarity was observed until the AAA of the upstream TAAATG motif, indicating that transcription of the gene initiates within the TAAATG element of the proposed late promoter element. i Immediately upstream is a 5' tract of noncoded poly(A) on the transcripts. The average length of the poly(A) is greater than 6bp. 
 EXAMPLE 7: ANALYSIS OF SPHEROIDIN SEQUENCE The spheroidin ORF (G5R) was initially identified by sequencing back through the RM58 oligonucleotide primer binding region as described above. 
 Examination of the AmEPV spheroidin gene sequence (ORF SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 SWO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 47 revealed a potential ORF of 3.0 kb capable of encoding 1,003 amino acids or a protein of about 115 kDa. 
 The ORF consists of 29% G+C, in contrast to the 18.5% reported for the entire AmEPV genome [Langridge, W.H.R., R.F. Bozarth, D.W. Roberts [1977] Virology 76:616-620]. 
 Inspection of the 92 bases upstream of the initiating ATG revealed only 7 G or C residues. Also detected was the presence of known vertebrate poxvirus regulatory sequences within the 92 bp 5' of the spheroidin ORF. 
 Included are three TTTT TNT early gene termination signals and TAAATG, which presumably represents a late transcription start signal used to initiate transcription and translation of the spheroidin gene. Several adjacent translation termination codons are also present within the 92 bp upstream of the spheroidin ORF. 
 Analysis of the sequence upstream of the spheroidin gene revealed four additional potential ORFs, GIL [SEQ ID NO:25], G2R [SEQ ID NO:23], G3L [SEQ ID NO:26], and G4R [SEQ ID NO:24], discussed above. The putative amino acid sequences of these ORFs are reported in Fig. 2 [SEQ ID NO: 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively]. No significant homologies were found for the small potential Spolypeptides encoded by ORF G2R [SEQ ID NO:23] or G3L [SEQ ID NO:26]. ORF G1L [SEQ ID N0:25], however, exhibited a significant degree of homology to ORF 17 found within the HindIII-I fragment of vaccinia virus, whose function is unknown. ORF G4R [SEQ ID NO:24] showed homology to ORF HM3 of capripoxvirus. In vaccinia virus, the ORF HM3 homolog was found very near the site of an incomplete ATI gene. The partial G6L ORF [SEQ ID NO:27] to the right of the spheroidin gene exhibited good homology to vaccinia virus NTPase I. Much better homology (78.4% identity over 162 amino acids) was found between the partial G6L ORF [SEQ ID NO:27] and NPH I of SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 i iiiiiiii__-_ WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 48 CbEPV [Yuen, L. et al, Virol., 182:403-406 (1991)], another insect poxvirus. 
 Example 8 Isolation and Sequencing of the AmEPV EcoRI-Q Fragment Containing the tk Gene Sequencing of the EcoRI-Q fragment of genomic AmEPV of Example 1 was performed using techniques described above for spheroidin. The sequencing showed 1511 bp containing two complete and one partial ORF. 
 Analysis of the DNA sequence of ORF Q2 [SEQ ID NO:28] indicates the sites where the identifying degenerate oligonucleotides (RM03 SEQ ID NO:18 and RM04 SEQ ID NO:19) might hybridize. Two oligonucleotides, RM03 and RM04, based on different but strongly conserved regions of the tk genes of several poxviruses and vertebrates [C. 
 Upton et al, J. Virol., 60:920-927 (1986); D. B. Boyle et al, Viroloqv, 156:355-365 (1987)] were prepared by the methods referred to above. RM03 was the 32-fold degenerate oligonucleotide [SEQ ID NO: 18] GA(T/C)GA(G/A)GG(G/A)GG(G/A)CA(G/A) TT(C/T)TT corresponding to the amino acid residues in the vaccinia tk protein from the aspartic acid at position 82 to the phenylalanine at position 87. RM04 [SEQ ID NO:19] was (GGNCCCATGTT(C/T)TCNGG with 32-fold degeneracy and corresponded to the region from the glycine at position 11 to the glycine at position 16 in vaccinia. These probes were radiolabeled as described above for the RH58 probe. 
 The AmEPV thymidine kinase (tk) gene was identified by hybridization with the degenerate oligonucleotide probes RM03 and RM04 to a Southern blot of the EcoRI-digested EPV DNA. The EcoRI band of interest (EcoRI-Q) was isolated, purified, and ligated into a pUC18 vector (GIBCO), previously digested with EcoRI and treated with calf intestinal alkaline SUBSTITUTE SHEET 
 S* 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 49 phosphatase. Recombinant clones were identified by the size of the insert and by hybridization to the radioactive labeled oligonucleotide probes. 
 One such clone was called pMEGtk-l. The recombinant clones containing the EcoRI-Q fragment oriented in both directions relative to the pUC18 vector sequences were used for sequencing. Sequential nested deletions were generated by the method of Henikoff, cited above, as described for pRH512. These clones were used for sequencing the entire EcoRI-Q fragment. 
 Subsequently, these oligonucleotides and another, RM129 is a non-degenerate oligonucleotide GGTGCAAAATCTGATATTTC [SEQ ID NO:20] prepared from the ORF Ql, were employed as sequencing primers to confirm their positioning as indicated in ORF Q2 [SEQ ID NO:28]. ORF Q2 potentially encodes for a protein of 182 amino acids (21.2 kDa) [SEQ ID NO:10]. ORF Q3 potentially encodes a polypeptide of at least 68 amino acids but is incomplete and is transcribed in the opposite direction from ORF Q2. 
 ORF Q1 [SEQ ID NO:31] potentially ancodes a small peptide of 66 amino acids (7.75 kDa) [SEQ ID NO:9]. 
 Further analysis of the EcoRI-Q fragment reveals several other points. First, the A+T content is very high For ORF Q2, the 100 nucleotides upstream of the start codon for translation are 90% A+T. 
 Some potential poxvirus transcription signals were found between ORFs Q1 and Q2. The five bases immediately preceding the start codon for ORF Q1 are TAAATG which comprise a consensus late poxvirus promoter. A potential poxvirus early transcription termination signal sequence (TTTTTAT) is located 2 nt past the translation stop codon of Q2. 
 The deduced amino acid sequence for the tk encoded by the ORF Q2 of the EcoRI-Q fragment can be compared to the tk genes for the poxviruses swine pox [W. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET -q WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 M. Schnitzlein et al, Virol., 181:727-732 (1991); J. A. 
 Feller et al, Virol., 183:578-585 (1991)]; fowlpox [Boyle et al., supra; M. M. Binns et al, J. Gen. Virol., 69:1275-1283 (1988)]; vaccinia P. Weir et al, J. 
 Virol., 46:530-537 (1983); D. E. Hruby et al, Proc. Natl. 
 Acad. Sci. USA, 80:3411-3415 (1983)]; variola and monkeypox J. Esposito et al, Virol., 135:561-567 (1984)]; capripoxvirus D. Gershon et al, J. Gen. 
 Virol., 70:525-533 (1989)]; Shope fibroma virus [Upton et al., supra]; the cellular thymidine kinases of humans [H. 
 D. Bradshaw et al, Mol. Cell. Biol., 4:2316-2320 (1984); E. Flemington et al, Gene, 52:267-277 (1987)]; the tk of mouse F. Lin et al, Mol Cell. Biol., 5:3149-3156 (1985)]; the tk of chicken J. Kwoh et al, Nucl. Acids Res., 12:3959-3971 (1984)]; ASF Blasco et al, Virol., 178:301-304 (1990); A. M. Martin Hernandez et al, J. 
 Virol., 65:1046-1052 (1991)]. 
 EXAMPLE 9 EXPRESSION OF THE AmEPV tk GENE IN A VACCINIA 
 VIRUS 
 The AmEPV tk gene was tested functionally by cloning the gene into a vaccinia virus strain tk- mutant, as follows. 
 The EcoRI-Q fragment of AmEPV, described above, was inserted in both possible orientations into shuttle plasmid pHGN3.1 D. Bloom et al, J. Virol., 65:1530- 1542 (1991)] which had been isolated from bacterial cells by the alkaline lysis method. This EcoRI-Q DNA fragment contains the AmEPV tk open reading frame (ORF). The cloning was performed conventionally. The resulting plasmid was designated pHGN3.1/EcoRI-Q. 
 The plasmid was transfected by Lipofectin [GIBCO] as described specifically below into mammalian cells infected with vaccinia virus. The cells were either rat tk', human 143 tk-, or CV-1 cell lines onto J SUBSTITUTE SHEET 1 o WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 51 which the vaccinia virus VSC8 was propagated. These cells were maintained in Eagle's Minimal Essential Medium with Earle's salts [Massung et al, Virol., 180:347-354 (1991) incorporated by reference herein]. 
 The VSC8 vaccinia strain [Dr. Bernard Moss] contains the B-galactosidase gene driven by the vaccinia P, promoter (P,-Lac Z cassette) inserted into the viral tk gene. While VSC8 contains an inactive tk gene due to the insertion of the B-galactosidase, portions of the vaccinia tk sequence remain. VSC8 is thus tk- and, upon staining with X-Gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-B-Dgalactopyranoside), will form blue plaques (8galactosidase positive). 
 Cells were grown to 80% confluence (4 x 106 per 60 mm dish). Lipofectin solution (20 pg of Lipofectin in of dHO) was added to 10ig plasmid DNA (pHGN3.1/AmEPV EcoRI-Q) in 501 of dHO and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. After a 2 hour period of viral adsorption of 2, 37 0 the monolayers were washed three times with serum-free OptiMEM. Three milliliters of serum-free OptiMEM was then added to each mm dish. The Lipofectin/DNA mixture was slowly added dropwise with gentle swirling and incubated an additional 12 to 18 hours at 37 0 C. Fetal bovine serum was then added (10% final) and the infected cells were harvested at 48 hours postinfection. 
 Recombinant viruses, containing the EcoRI-Q fragment inserted into the hemagglutinin (HA) gene of vaccinia, were identified by hybridization of AmEPV EcoRI-Q fragments, radioactively labeled by procedures described above, to replicas of nitrocellulose "lifts" of virus plaques from the infected monolayer. Potential recombinants were isolated from replica filters and plaque-purified several times before testing. 
 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 52 The tk of AmEPV exhibits some degree of homology with the tk of vaccinia. To confirm that insertion of the AmEPV tk gene was within the HA gene of vaccinia rather than within residual tk sequences remaining in VSC8, the recombinants were examined by a series of Southern hybridizations to HindIII digests of the various viruses. When DNA from wild-type virus was hybridized to a vaccinia virus tk probe, hybridization was observed exclusively within the =5 kb HindIII-J fragment of AmEPV. 
 When either VSC8 or either of the AmEPV tk containing recombinants was examined using the vaccinia tk probe, hybridization occurred instead to an =8 kb fragment consistent with polymerase in the presence of radiolabeled substrates. Extension will terminate at the end of the PstI-F fragment. 
 The radiolabeled product was then hybridized to an EcoRI digest of AmEPV DNA. If orientation of the gene is such that the tk ORF reads toward the end of the genome, hybridization would be expected to the EcoRI-E fragment; whereas if the gene is read toward the center of the genome, hybridization would be expected to the EcoRI-I fragment. 
 The results indicate hybridization not only to the EcoRI-E fragment, but also to the EcoRI-A fragment. 
 These results infer that the orientation of the tk gene is with reading toward the left end of the genome. 
 Hybridization of the run-off extension product also to the EcoRI-A fragment is consistent with the presence of an inverted terminal repetition, common in poxviruses, with identical sequences residing in both the EcoRI-A and the EcoRI-E fragments. 
 The optimal arowth temperature for AmEPV in the laboratory is 28 0 C, whereas that of the vertebrate poxviruses is 37 0 C. As described-herein, when the AmEPV SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 53 DNA fragment containing the entire tk gene was cloned into the tk strain of vaccinia virus, the recombinant virus was capable of growing at 37 0 C in the presence of methotrexate [Sigma], indicative of a tk phenotype. 
 This example demonstrates that the Entomopoxvirus tk gene can be successfully transferred into mammalian expression systems, and that AmEPV tk is functionally active over a considerable temperature range. 
 It should be understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only. Various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art by this specification. The subject invention encompasses recombinant polynucleotide sequences, plasmids, vectors, and transformed hosts which are equivalent to those which are specifically exemplified herein in that the characteristic expression features are retained in said equivalent constructs even if inconsequential modifications to the DNA sequence have been made. For example, it is within the skill of a person trained in the art to use a fragment of the spheroidin gene's noncoding region which is upstream of the structural gene in order to achieve the desired level of expression. Such fragments of the regulatory sequences fall within the scope of the current invention, so long as the desired level of expression which is characteristic of this system is retained. Furthermore, inconsequential changes to the nucleotide sequences can be made without affecting the disclosed functions of these sequences. Such modifications also fall within the scope of the current invention and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and the scope of the appended claims. 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 54 SEQUENCE LISTING GENERAL INFORMATION: APPLICANT: University of Florida (ii) TITLE OF INVENTION: Novel Entomopoxvirus Expression System (iii) NUMBER OF SEQUENCES: (iv) CORRESPONDENCE ADDRESS: ADDRESSEE: David R. Saliwanchik STREET: 2421 N.W. 41st Street, Suite A-1 CITY: Gainesville STATE: Florida E) COUNTRY: U.S.A. 
 ZIPt 32606 COMPUTER READABLE FORM: MEDIUM TYPE: Floppy disk COMPUTER: IBM PC compatible OPERATING SYSTEM: PC-DOS/MS-DOS SOFTWARE: PatentIn Release Version #1.25 (vi) CURRENT APPLICATION DATA: APPLICATION NUMBER: FILING DATE: 
 CLASSIFICATION: 
 (vii) PRIOR APPLICATION DATA: APPLICATION NUMBER: US 07/657,584; US 07/ FILING DATE: 19-FEB-1991; 30-JAN-1992 (viii) ATTORNEY/AGENT INFORMATION: NAME: Saliwanchik, David R. 
 REGISTRATION NUMBER: 31,794 REFERENCE/DOCKET NUMBER: UF/S&S-114.C2 (ix) TELECOMMUNICATION INFORMATION: TELEPHONE: (904) 375-8100 TELEFAX: (904) 372-5800 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:1: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 6768 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE: ORGANISM: Amsacta moorei entomopoxvirus (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: CDS- LOCATION: complement (65..1459) (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: CDS LOCATION: 1474..2151 SUBSTITUTE SHEET r 
 I 
 f WYO 92/14818 PCr/US92/00855 (ix) FEATURE: 
 NAME/KEY: 
 LOCATION: 
 (ix) FEATURE: 
 NAME/KEY: 
 LOCATION: 
 (ix) FEATURE: 
 NAME/KEY: 
 LOCATION: 
 (ix) FEATURE: 
 NAME/KEY: 
 LOCATION: 
 CDS 
 complement CD S 2502. .2987 
 CDS 
 3080. .6091 
 CDS 
 complement (2239. .2475) (6277. .6768) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:1: 
 AGATCTGATG 
 GATATTAAAT 
 TTTTTATTTT 
 ATTCCATAAA 
 TACTATTAAT 
 CACCAATAAA 
 AATAAA'ITAT 
 GTAATTCAAA 
 CTGATAGTAC 
 TATGGCTTTT 
 GTTCTGGTAT 
 GTTTATCTAT 
 TTTTTTTATC 
 ATGAAGCTAC 
 CATAATCTGT 
 ACCATGTAGA 
 GCGGTATTCC 
 TTGTTTTGGA 
 TATATTTTTT 
 TTATAGTCCA 
 TATGATTTGG 
 ATGTTACTTT 
 CATTAGTATT 
 TTCTATATAT 
 ATTAGATTCT 
 ACTACATACA 
 CTTTTTATTT 
 ATCATATCTA 
 ACTCATAGAA. 
 ATAATATAAA 
 AGTATTAAAA 
 ATCAATGTAT 
 TATAGTCATA 
 ATAACCACTA 
 TACGCAACAA 
 ATTCATTAAA 
 TGTAGCAATA 
 ATTAATCATA 
 TTTATCATGT 
 TATTTGAGCA 
 TAATTCTGAT 
 AGATGTAATA 
 AAATAGAAAA 
 ATCTAAAACT 
 ACCTCTTGTT 
 ATATTTAATA 
 AGTACAAATT 
 AAACTATTCT 
 TTCATAATTC 
 TTTATATTAA 
 GAAATAAATA 
 TAATATAATT 
 AATATTATAT 
 XAGTAATAAT 
 AAATAAGCAT 
 TCAGATTCAA 
 CTATTAAAAA 
 GTAAAATGAT 
 AAAAATTTTA 
 TTTTTATCAG 
 GTTAATGGAT 
 TTTCTTGGGT 
 TCCAAATCAT 
 TTTAGAAAAG 
 AAAGTATTAA 
 AATTTTCTTT 
 AATTCATTAT 
 TCATCATCAT 
 GGATTTATAA 
 TGTATGATTA 
 TCTCATTATC 
 TATTACTATT 
 ATATTTCTAA 
 ATGCACCTCT 
 TTTTAAATTC 
 TAAACATACC 
 TTACATTTTT 
 AATTAGTATT 
 TAAACATATA 
 AGTATGCAGC 
 CATTATAAAT 
 CTCTATCTTC 
 TTTTTTCAAA 
 ATATACAATT 
 AAGCTTTAGG 
 CATAAATTGT 
 ACTTTCTCAT 
 TATTTATATT 
 TAATATTATT 
 ATAATATTTC 
 CATCTATTTT 
 AATATACCAT 
 ATTGATATTT 
 AATATAACTA 
 TTTTTTATAC 
 TGTATTTTTA 
 ATAACTACTA 
 AA.ATTTAGAT 
 ACAATCGGGA 
 AAATATATCA 
 AGGAGTACTA 
 TTTTTTATTT 
 TTTTTTATCT 
 TATAGGA.AAC 
 AAGTTTATAG 
 TAAAATCAAA 
 ATATATATCT 
 TTTAGGATTA 
 GGCAAATGTA 
 ATATACTAAT 
 TTTATCTTGT 
 TTCAAAATTA 
 CAAGTATTTT 
 TTCTAATATA 
 ATTATCTATT 
 TAAAATTCAA 
 TCATAATCAT 
 ATATOTATTA 
 AATTCGTCAA. 
 GCCAATAAAT 
 TTTATGTTGA 
 CIATCATATT 
 TTTAAATATT 
 TTGTAGTGTT 
 TGTTTTATAA 
 TTATCAAAGT 
 ATAAAAAATC 
 CATCTCATAG 
 TGAAAATAAT 
 CCCGAACTTA 
 AATCCCAAAG 
 GAAAAATCTC 
 GGAATGCCTT 
 AAATATTTTT 
 ATATTATTAA 
 ATAGGTATAA 
 GCTATATTTG 
 TTACTAAAAA 
 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 540 600 660 720 780 840 900 960 1020 1080 1140 1200 1260 1320 1380 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 ~1 
 F 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 ATAACATAGA CATAAAATTA ATACCAGATT CTGGCATTTT TAAATTTTTA TTTGGAAATC TTCTAATTTT ATTATTCATT ATTTATTTAA TAA ATG TTT CTA GTT TAT TTC AAT Met Phe Leu Val Tyr Phe Asn 1' 
 I 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asri 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 GCG 
 Ala 
 AAT 
 Asn 120 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GTG 
 Val 200 
 AAC 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 TCT 
 Ser 105 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 GTT 
 Val 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 ATA 
 Ile 185 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 GTA 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TAC 
 Tyr 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AGT 
 Ser 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TTC 
 Phe 
 AGT 
 Ser 
 TAT 
 Tyr 170 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 GGA 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 GTG 
 Val 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 CTT 
 Leu 
 GTA 
 Vai 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GAT 
 Asp 155 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 ACA 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 GCA 
 Ala 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 AAT 
 Asn 110 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GTA 
 Val 
 ATA 
 Ile 190 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 GTC 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 ATT 
 Ile 175 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 ATA 
 Gly 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 CAC 
 His 145 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 CCA 
 Ile 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 AGT 
 Ser 
 TTT 
 Phe 165 
 GTA 
 Vai 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 Ile 
 ATA 
 11ie 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 GCT 
 Aia 135 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATC 
 GGT ATT ATA GGT ATT TAT ATA 1440 1494 1542 1590 1638 1686 1734 1782 1830 1878 1926 1974 2022 2070 2118 2168 2228 Ile Ser Phe Leu Asn Ile 210 215 TAATATTTAG TAA'AATCAC Asn Val Gly Thr Leu Phe Vai Ile Asn Pro TAACATATTT TTTATTAAJ TGAATAAAAT ATATATTGTT ATTGTCAATA TTTTATATCA SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 1 WO 9214818PCr/US92/00855 TTTTACAGTC TTATTTTTTT TTTTTGCTTT TAOOTATAAT TTTACCTTCT AAACGTTTAT CTCCCCAAAC ATCTACAGTA GATGGTTTAT TAGATTCTGT OTTATACACA TCTOCTGGAT TTGCGGCATT TGTATCCAAA CCATAATATC CAGGTCTATA ATTATCTTTA AAAACTTGGG ATTOAGATAC TTCTTCAGTT TTTAAATTAT TAAAATATCC AAGATTATTT TTTTTTGATG AAGACATAAT TOATATTATA ATACTTTATA OAT ATO TCA ATA TTT ATC TAC TAT Met Ser Ile Phe Ile Tyr Tyr 1  
 ATT 
 Ile 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GA.A 
 Giu 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 TAT 
 Tyr 120 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TTA 
 TTC 
 Phe 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 ACT 
 Thr 105 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 OTT 
 Val 
 TGG 
 Trp 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TOO 
 Trp 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GTA 
 Vali 
 AGA 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 GCC 
 Ala 45 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 OCT 
 Ala 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 OAT 
 Asp 125 
 CCT 
 Pro 
 ATO 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 OAA 
 Glu 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 OAT 
 Asp 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 ACT 
 Ser 110 
 TOT 
 Cys 
 TOT 
 Cys 0CC 
 ATA 
 Ile 15 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 AAT 
 As n 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 CCC 
 Pro 
 ACT 
 Thr 95 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 AAT 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 TAC 
 Tyr 
 OCO 
 Ala 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 OAA 
 Oiu 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 OTC 
 Val 
 ACA 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 OCA 
 Al a 
 OAA 
 Oiu 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 OAT 
 Asp 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ACT 
 Ser 
 OAT 
 Asp 
 OA.A 
 Oiu 145 
 TCA 
 ATO AAT ACT OTA CAA Asn 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 TTT 
 Phe 100 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TCT 
 S er 
 AAC 
 Thr 
 CTA 
 Leu 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 OAT 
 Val 
 OTT 
 Val 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 OTT 
 Val 
 OCA 
 Ala 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TOT 
 Gin 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 OAA 
 Oiu 
 OTT 
 Val 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 ATA 
 Ile 135 
 AGA 
 2288 2348 2408 2468 2522 2570 2618 2666 2714 2762 2810 2858 2906 2954 3004 3064 3115 3163 3211 Ser Asn Asp Cys Arg 150 TAAATACATT ATAATATTAT Leu Leu Arg Leu Leu Met Ala Asn Thr Ser TATAATATCA ATCATAATTT TTATATATAT TTTATCTAAA AGGOTTTTT ATTTTTTATA TATTAATAAT AATAA ATO ACT AAC OTA CCT TTA GCA ACC AAA ACA ATA AGA Met Ser Asn Val Pro Leu Ala Thr Lys Thr Ile Arg 1 5 AAA TTA TCA AAT COA AAA TAT OAA ATA AAO ATT TAT TTA AAA OAT OAA Lys Leu Ser Asn Arg Lys Tyr Oiu Ile Lys Ile Tyr Leu Lys Asp Oiu 20 AAT ACT TOT TTC OAA COT OTA OTA OAT ATO OTA OTT CCA TTA TAT OAT SUBSTITUTE SHEET f i: i i L~ i WO 92/14818 PC/US92/00855 Asn 
 GTC 
 Val 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 GGC 
 Gly 
 GTA 
 Val 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ACT 
 Thr 125 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 ATT 
 Ile 205 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 ATT 
 Ile Thr 
 TGT 
 Cys 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 GTA 
 Vai 110 
 CTT 
 Lev 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 TTA 
 Leu 190 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 CAA 
 Gin 270 Phe 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 GCC 
 Ala 
 CAT 
 His 
 GGA 
 Cly 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 CAA 
 Gin 160 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 TAC 
 Tyr 
 AAG 
 Lys 240 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 GAA 
 Glu Glu 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 GTC 
 Vai 145 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 GAA 
 Glu 225 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 GCT 
 Ala 
 AGG 
 Arg Val 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 TTG 
 Leu 
 CGA 
 Arg 
 GCT 
 Ala 120 
 ATC 
 Ile 
 CGA 
 Cly 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 ACA 
 Thr 200 
 GCA 
 Ala 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GTT 
 Val 280 Leu 
 AGT 
 Ser 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 CCG 
 Pro 
 TTG 
 Leu 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 GCA 
 Ala 170 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 GCA 
 Ala 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 GCA 
 Ala 250 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GCA 
 Ala Tyr 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 GTT 
 Val 
 TGT 
 Cys 
 CTA 
 Leu 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 CCC 
 Pro 
 ACT 
 Thr 155 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 TTC 
 Phe 
 TTA 
 Leu 235 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 TAT 
 Tyr Asp 
 AAT 
 Asr 
 CAC 
 His 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 CTG 
 Leu 
 CTA 
 Leu 140 
 AAC 
 Lys 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 CTA 
 Val 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CTT 
 Leu 220 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 GTG 
 Val 
 ACT 
 Thr 3259 3307 3355 3403 3451 3499 3547 3595 3643 3691 3739 3787 3835 3883 3931 SUBSTITUTE SHEET 1 1 
 I 
 i i. WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 
 AAG 
 Lys 285 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 ACG 
 Thr 
 ATG 
 Met 
 CTG 
 Leu 
 TCG 
 Ser 365 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 TGC 
 Cys 
 TGT 
 CyB 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 AAA 
 Lys 445 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 CTT 
 Leu 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 GAT 
 Asp 525 
 ;AT 
 %sp 
 GAA 
 lu 
 CTC 
 Leu 
 CAT 
 His 
 GAA 
 Glu 350 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 GAC 
 Asp 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 ACT 
 Thr 430 
 GTA 
 Val 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 GAC 
 Asp 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 AAT 
 Asn 510 
 ATG 
 Met 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 GTA 
 Val 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 AAC 
 Aen 335 
 TTG 
 Leu 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 OAA 
 Glu 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 TAT 
 Tyr 415 
 ACG 
 Thr 
 CCC 
 Pro 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 GTT 
 Val 
 CAT 
 His 495 
 TGC 
 Cys 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GAC 
 Asp 
 GTA 
 Val 320 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CAA 
 Gin 400 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AGG 
 Arg 480 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 CCC 
 Pro 305 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 OTT 
 Val 
 AAA 
 Lys 385 
 GTA 
 Val 
 CCC 
 Pro 
 CAC 
 His 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATT 
 Ile 465 
 CTT 
 Leu 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 CGC 
 Arg 290 
 GAG 
 Glu 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 AGT 
 Ser 
 OTA 
 Vai 
 GGT 
 Gly 370 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TTC 
 Phe 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTA 
 Leu 450 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 AAA 
 Lys 530 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAG 
 Lye 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 AAA 
 Lye 355 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 CAC 
 His 
 TGT 
 Cys 
 TAT 
 Tyr 435 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 CAT 
 His 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 GTA 
 Val 
 TTG 
 Leu 515 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 CTA 
 Leu 
 GTA 
 Val 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AAT 
 Asn 340 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 TAC 
 Tyr 
 TTG 
 Leu 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 CCA 
 Pro 420 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 CTT 
 Leu 
 ATG 
 Met 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATT 
 Ile 500 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TGT 
 Cys 
 ACT 
 Ihr 
 OAT 
 Asp 325 
 GTA 
 Vai 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 CGT 
 Arg 405 
 TTC 
 Phe 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TGG 
 Trp 
 OCT 
 Ala 
 OAT 
 Asp 485 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 TTO 
 Leu 
 AGT 
 Ser 310 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 ITA 
 Leu 
 OAA 
 Glu 390 
 OTA 
 Val 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 TCI 
 Ser 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 OAT 
 Asp 470 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GAO 
 Glu 
 ATO 
 Met 295 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 OTT 
 Val 
 AAT 
 Aen 375 
 ATI 
 Ile 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TGG 
 Trp 455 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 TGT 
 Cys 
 GAO 
 Glu 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 TAT 
 Tyr 535 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CAT 
 His 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 AAA 
 Lys 360 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 CTT 
 Leu 
 OTT 
 Val 
 OTT 
 Val 440 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TAC 
 Tyr 
 TTT 
 Phe 520 
 ACT 
 Thr ATA ACA Ile Thr OCT TTA Ala Leu TTA AAA Leu Lys 330 AGA TCA Arg Ser 345 OCA ICT Ala Ser ATT TAT Ile Tyr OCA GAA Ala Glu AAT AAA Asn Lys 410 OTA AAC Val Asn 425 TGT TTA Cys Leu TTA OAT Leu Asp OAT OAT Asp Asp AAA CAA Lys Gin 490 OCA AAT Ala Asn 505 AAT AAT Asn Asn AAC TTT Asn Phe 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 TTG 
 Leu 315 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 OAT 
 Asp 
 OTA 
 Vai 
 TAT 
 Tyr 395 
 CAC 
 His 
 AGC 
 Ser 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TGC 
 Cys 
 TTA 
 Leu 475 
 GCC 
 Ala 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 OTA 
 Val 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 AGT 
 Ser 300 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 OTA 
 Val 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 OAT 
 Asp 380 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 CCT 
 Pro 
 OAT 
 Asp 460 
 OAT 
 Asp 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 AAA 
 Lys 540 3979 4027 4075 4123 4171 4219 4267 4315 4363 4411 4459 4507 4555 4603 4651 4699 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 i 1 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 
 AGT 
 Ser 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 GAT 
 Asp 605 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 GCT 
 Ala 
 CTA 
 Leu 
 AAG 
 Lye 
 TAT 
 Tyr 685 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GTA 
 Val 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 GAA 
 Glu 765 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GCT 
 Ala 
 TCA 
 Ser 590 
 CTC 
 Leu 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 GCA 
 Ala 
 ACT 
 Thr 670 
 CTA 
 Leu 
 GTC 
 Val 
 GCT 
 Ala 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 CAT 
 Asp 750 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 ATG 
 Met 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 TCC 
 Ser 
 AAA 
 Lye 575 
 TTC 
 Phe 
 GTA 
 Vai 
 GCA 
 Ala 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 GGA 
 Gly 655 
 CTA 
 Leu 
 TTC 
 Phe 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 CCA 
 Pro 
 TCA 
 Ser 735 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 TGC 
 Cys 
 GCT 
 Ala 
 CTT 
 Leu 545 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CTA 
 Leu 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TGC 
 Cys 625 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAG 
 Lye 
 CCA 
 Pro 705 
 ACT 
 Thr 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 OCT 
 Ala 
 ACA 
 Thr 
 GAA 
 Glu 785 
 AAT 
 Aen 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 CTT 
 Leu 
 CTA 
 Leu 610 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 GAA 
 Glu kAT Aen 690 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GTT 
 Val 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 TCA 
 Ser 770 
 GCA 
 Ala 
 TGT 
 Cys 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 TTA 
 Leu 645 
 CCT 
 Pro 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 GAA 
 Glu 725 
 GGT 
 Cly 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 AAA 
 Lye 
 TTA 
 Leu TTA GGA Leu Gly TGC GTA Trp Val GTT AGA Val Arg 585 TAT OCT Tyr Ala 600 OTT AAT Val Asn ATA TTA Ile Leu AAC GGA Asn Gly TAT GGA Tyr Gly 665 CAT AAG Asp Lye 680 ATO CGT Met Arg TTT AGA Phe Arg TTO GTT Leu VaI. 
 AAT ACA Asn Thr 745 ATT GGA Ile Gly 760 TCA GAA Ser Glu CTA GGT Leu Gly 4747 4795 4843 4891 4939 4987 5035 5083 5131 5179 5227 5275 5323 5371 5419 5467 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 E. 
 WO 92/14818 PCI/US92/00855 COT ATT AAT GAA ACT AAT TAC AAC AAA TGT AAT AAA TAT GGT TAT AGA 5515 Arg 
 GGA 
 Cly 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 TAT 
 Tyr 845 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TGT 
 Cys 925 
 GAC 
 Asp 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 GTA 
 Val 
 GAT 
 Asp 830 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 GAA 
 Giu 
 OCT 
 Gly 
 TGT 
 Cys 
 GGT 
 Gly 910 
 GGA 
 Gly 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 GAA 
 Asn 
 TAC 
 Tyr 815 
 TOT 
 Cys 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 AGT 
 Ser 
 CTT 
 Leu 
 ACG 
 Thr 895 
 GAA 
 Giu 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 TCA 
 Ser 975 
 AAT 
 Giu 800 
 GAA 
 Giu 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATG 
 Met 
 GAA 
 Giu 
 TTA 
 Leu 880 
 CCT 
 Pro 
 CAA 
 Gin 
 AGA 
 Arg 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 GAT 
 Asp 960 
 GAT 
 Asp Ser 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CCT 
 Pro 
 OAT 
 Asp 
 TCT 
 Ser 865 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CAC 
 His 
 ACA 
 Thr ccc Pro 945 
 AC 
 Ser 
 OGA 
 Giy Asn 
 AAC 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TTA 
 Leu 850 
 CCT 
 Pro 
 COT 
 Gly 
 ACO 
 Thr 
 OTA 
 Val1 
 GGA 
 Gly 930 
 CAC 
 His 
 TOT 
 Cys 
 TOT 
 Cys Tyr 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 AAT 
 Asn 835 
 CAT 
 His 
 TOC 
 Cys 
 CCT 
 Pro 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 TAC 
 Tyr 915 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 OTT 
 Val 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 TOC 
 Cy s Asn Lys Tyr Gly Tyr Arg 810 TAT TAT AGA GAA Tyr Tyr Arg Giu 825 ATA TCC AGA TAT Ile Ser Arg Tyr 840 ATT TTT OCA AAT Ile Phe Ala Aen CAT TAC TTO GAA His Tyr Leu Oiu 875 CAC AGA TAT CAA His Arg Tyr Gin 890 AAT TOT OTA ACA Asn Cys Vai Thr 905 OGA OAT AAT GCJ. 
 Gly Asp Asn Ala 920 AGO CAT GAA TG Arg Asp Giu Trp 0CC GAT GCA AAT Ala Asp Ala Asn 955 ACT ACT OAA TCT Ser Ser Giu Ser 970 ACT TTA CAT TCT Ser Leu Asp Ser 985 GAT OCA GGA TGC Asp Ala Gly Cys 1000 ATA 5563 Ile OGA 5611 Cly TAC 5659 Tyr 860 OAT 5707 Asp GAA 5755 O lu AGA 5803 Arg ACA 5851 Thr AAT 5899 Asn 940 ACT 5947 Ser GAA 5995 Oiu GAT 6043 Asp TAAATGAAAT 6098 TOT TAT CAA AAT Ile Giu Asn Cys Tyr Gin Asn Pro Ser Lys Cys 990 995 TTAATATTAT ATAATATTAA CTTACAAGTT CATATTATCO ATAGTTCTOA TAATGTGCTC ATTATCTTTT AOATATATTT AATATTAATT ATTCATAATA ATCATCTCCT ATATATATTA TATTGTCTTT ATCAATCATT AATTTTGCTA 
 ATAAAAATCA 
 TTTTATTTTA 
 ATAAATCGAC 
 ATOTATCATT 
 CACCTGTATT 
 TTAAAATGAT 
 TTAATTGCGA 
 TGACAATAAT 
 CTCTATTATA 
 ATCTTTATAT 
 TTTTTAAAAT 
 TGATTATAAT 
 ATTTATTCCT 
 AATATAGGTA 
 ACTATATTTG 
 6158 6218 6278 6338 6398 SUBSTITUTE SHEET 1 
 F 
 WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 
 TGTCTTTGTT 
 TGGGATATAA 
 TACGTATTGT 
 GAATAGATTC 
 TATCTTTTAT 
 TTAAAAAATG 
 TTATAGATCT 
 TAATAAACCT 
 TTTTATATTA 
 GTCAAAAATT 
 GATAGATGAT 
 AATATCTAAT 
 AACGTTAACA 
 TTTAATATAG 
 ATAATAACAT 
 ATTTCATTTT 
 GATTTTAATA 
 ATTTCTTTAT 
 TATCTATATT 
 TGGCTCTATC 
 TAGATACGTT 
 CTGCTGGTTC 
 AATCAAATAT 
 CTACAGATTT 
 CTTGTGGTAA. 
 ATAATCTTTA 
 CATTTCTTTC 
 TATATATTTA 
 AACATTTATT 
 TCTGTTGTTG 
 ATCTTTATGA 
 CAATATGATA 
 ATTCTAGTTT 
 TATGTGTTAT 
 TTACCTTGTT 
 GTATATGATA 
 GAATTTAATC 
 6458 6518 6578 6638 6698 6758 6768 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:2: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 464 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear (ii) (xi) Asn Asr Ser Gly 
 MOLECULE 
 SEQUENCE 
 Lys Ile 5 Ile Asn TYPE: protein DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:2: Met 
 I 
 G iu Arg Arg Phe Pro Phe Met Ser Met Lys Asn Leu Lys Met Pro Leu Phe Phe Ser 25 Ile Lys Tyr Asn Asn Met Val Ile Ala Ile Tyr Phe Ile Asn Lys Ile Asp Asn Ala Asn Arg Giy Lys Leu Glu Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Vai Thr Phe Ile Pro Tyr Leu Glu Tyr Asn Giu Leu Asp Pro Ile Asn Asn Phe Glu Asn Asn Ile Lys Arg Lys Lys An Ile 115 Ile Pro Leu Leu Phe Trp Lys Lys Tyr Ile Asn Thr Thr Ser Lys Leu Gin Asp 110 Tyr Lys Gly Giu Leu Ser Val Tyr Met Lys Ser Phe Leu 130 Lvs Thr Arg Asp Phe Phe Ala Thr Asp Asp Leu Gin Ile Gly Pro Leu Gly Pro Lys Pro Lys Ala 175 Asp Ile Tyr Pro Arg Asp Lys Ser Trp Leu Ser Ser SUBSTITUTE SHEET 
 I 
 WO 92/14818 WO 9214818PCT/US92/00855 Tyr Phe Ala 225 Leu Asp Lys Ly s Ser 305 Tyr Asn Cy s Ile Ile 385 Arg Phe Lys Tyr Leu G iu 215 Tyr Arg Val1 Asn Met 295 Ser Glu Thr Ile Phe 375 Ser Ile Lys Met Asn 455 Met Thr Leu Phe Asp 265 Ser Ile Pro Leu 0 iu 345 Leu Lys Tyr G iu Met 425 Val Lys Ile Asp Giu Met 250 Lys Gly Giu Asn Asn 330 Leu Tyr Leu Arg Phe 410 Giu Cys Asn Thr Asn 220 Arg Pro Phe Ile Asp 300 Asn Ile Tyr Ile Tyr 380 Ala Asn Ile Lys Leu 460 Asp Thr Phe Tyr 255 Asp Leu Ile Tyr Asn 335 Pro Phe Ser Ile Giu 415 Tyr Asn Asn Tyr Val Phe 240 Asn Lys Ile Lys Leu 320 Vai Asp Asn" Phe Ser 400 Ile Lys Asp Ile INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:3: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 226 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 64 (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:3: Met Phe Leu Val Tyr Phe Asn Thr Phe Leu Ile Ile Ile Leu PCT/US92/00855 G ly Leu Ile Phe Asn Asn Leu Phe His 145 Ser Giy Asn Ile Pro 225 Ile Ile Asn Leu Asn Gin Giy Arg 130 Cys His Giu Phe lie 210 Phe Val Phe Ser Asp Leu 75 Vai Asn Arg Asn Asp 155 Asn Ile Ile Leu Phe Asp Phe Thr Asn Ile Iil.' Gin Ala Ile Ser Ile Leu Leu Leu Thr Phe Ile Vai 160 Ile Ile 175 Leu Asn Asn Ser Aen Vai Giy Thr Leu Phe Vai Ile Asn INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:4: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 78 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: iinear (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:4: Met Ser Ser Ser Lys Lys Asn Asn Leu Gly Tyr Phe Asn Aen Leu Lys 10 SUBSTITUTE SHEET 1 i.i- FI1~ WO 92/14818 PC/US92/00855 Thr Gly Asn Arg (2) Glu Glu Val Ser Gin Ser Gin Val Phe Lys Asp Asn Tyr Arg Pro 25 Tyr Tyr Gly Leu Asp Thr Asn Ala Ala Asn Pro Ala Asp Val Tyr 40 Thr Glu Ser Asn Lys Pro Ser Thr Val Asp Val Trp Gly Asp Lys 55 Leu Glu Gly Lys Ile Ile Pro Lys Ser Lys Lys Lys Lys 70 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 162 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein Met 1 Lys Ala Glu Arg Asp Asn Ser Asp Glu 145 Ser (xi) SEQUENCE Ser Ile Phe Ile 5 Arg Met Asn Thr Leu Ser Phe Leu Tyr Ile Leu Arg Ser Ala Asn Ile Asn Val Phe Asn Asn Ile Phe Tyr 100 Thr Gly Ile Asn 115 Leu Phe Ser Arg 130 Thr Ser Asn Asp DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID Tyr Tyr Ile Phe Asn Asn Arg Phe Tyr Ile Tyr 10 Val Gln Ile Leu Val Val Ile Leu Ile Thr Thr 25 Val Phe Gin Leu Trp Tyr Tyr Ala Glu Asn Tyr 40 Tyr Asn Asp Thr Tyr Ser Asn Leu Gin Phe Ala 55 an Phe Asp Asp Leu Thr Val Phe Asp Pro Asn o0 75 Val Glu Glu Lys Trp Arg Cys Ala Ser Thr Asn 90 Ala Val Ser Thr Phe Gly Phe Leu Ser Thr Glu 105 110 Leu Thr Tyr Thr Asn Ser Arg Asp Cys Ile Ile 120 125 Ile Ile Lys Ile Val Tyr Asp Pro Cys Thr Val 135 140 Cys Arg Leu Leu Arg Leu Leu Met Ala Asn Thr INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:6: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 1003 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 WO 9214818PCT/U3S92/00855 (ii) MOLECULE (xi) SEQUENCE TYPE: prrc tein DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:6: Met Arg G iu Thr Giu Lys Gin Asn Lys Val 145 Asn Pro Lys Phe G iu 225 Arg Ala Arg Gly Ser Asn Val Lys Arg Ser Leu Giu Val Asp His 130 Asp Aen Gin Val As n 210 Val1 Tyr Lye Leu Arg 290 Tyr Val1 Gly Asp Met Trp Vai 115 Leu Asp Asn Tyr Thr 195 Lye Asn Gly Aen Pro 275 Asn Pro Ile Asp Thr Thr Phe 8b Tyr Tyr Leu G ly Gin 165 Tyr Asp Vai As n Phe 245 Ser Aen Cys Leu Ala Thr Lys Lys Met Leu His 70 Giu Val Lye Lye Aen 150 Val Ile Val Aen G iu 230 Giu Ile Leu Leu Ser 310 Thr 10 Lye Leu Ser Lye Pro 90 Leu Phe Gin Ile Aila 170 Arg Aia Ser Leu Aia 250 Asp Ala Thr Leu Asp Tyr Pro Val 75 Cys Leu Arg Pro Thr 155 Ser Lye Thr Phe Leu 235 Asp Thr Tyr Ser Leu 315 Ile Arg Lye Leu Thr Cys Giu Asp Asn Val Leu Ile Aen Thr Leu 190 Thr Ile Leu Leu Gin 270 Asp Giu Leu Ser Cys Asn Val Thr Giu Ser Asn Tyr Ile Ile 175 Asn Leu Tyr Leu Ile 255 Vai Giu Val Ar g Aen Phe G iu Ile Leu Ala His G ly Phe Gin 160 Phe Giu Asp Tyr Lye 240 Tyr Glu Aen Asp Val 320 Giu Tyr Val Thr SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 WO 9214818PCr/US92/00855 Asp 325 Val Tyr Lys Giu Arg 405 Phe Ile Trp Al a Asp 485 Ile Asn Ser Ser Leu 565 Cys Lys Cys Gly Leu 645 67 Ltys 330 Ser Ser Tyr Giu Lys 410 Asn Leu Asp Asp Gin 490 Asn Asn Phe Ile Thr 570 Giu Met Ile Phe Val1 650 Ile Leu Asp Vai Tyr 395 His Ser Lys Cys Leu 475 Ala Thr Val Thr Asn 555 Pro Phe Ala Giu Ala 635 Asp Val Tyr Thr Asp 380 Arg Gin Pro Pro Asp 460 Asp Ile Tyr Phe Lys 540 Ile His Cys Arg Ile 620 Arg Asn Met Leu Ser 365 Asn Cys Cys Asp Lys5 445 Thr Leu Lys Pro Asp 525 Ser Gly Giu Lys Asp 605 Aen Ala Leu His Aen 335 Giu Leu 350 Arg Leu Asp Giu Gly Arg Lys Tyr 415 Thr Thr 430 Val Pro Ser Arg Asp Val Gin His 495 Asn Cys 510 Met Asn Arg Gin Asn Ser Ala Lys 575 Ser Phe 590 Leu Val Giu Ala Ile Lye Ala Gly 655 Arg Ser Asp Asn Gin 400 Thr Ile Lys Phe Arg 480 Tyr Thr Asp Asp Val 560 Ile Cys Ser Val Val 640 Tyr SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 WO 92/14818 WO 9214818PCIF/US92/0085$ Ser Asn LyB Pro 705 Thr Asp Ala Thr C lu 785 Ser Asn Pro Asp Ser 865 Tyr Asn His Thr Pro 945 Ile Giu Asn 690 Leu Asp Val Arg Ser 770 Ala Asn Asn Asn Leu 850 Pro Gly Thr Val Gly 930 His Ser Lys 675 Lys Tyr Aen Leu Val 755 Glu Ser Tyr Lye Asn 835 His Cys Pro Phe Tyr 915 Tyr Val Leu 660 Tyr Leu Ile Tyr Gln 740 Ala His Arg Asn Leu 820 Asn Lys Glu Glu Gly 900 Giu Gly Tyr Thr Phe Al a Leu 715 Ser Asn Val Leu Val 795 Tyr Glu Tyr Asn G lu 875 Gin Thr Al a Trp Asn 955 Glu Lye Lye Tyr 685 Asp Phe 700 Leu Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Tyr Glu 765 Cys Lye 780 Aen Arg Arg Gly Ile Phe Gly Tyr 845 Tyr Asp 860 Asp Arg Glu Ser Arg Aen Thr Cys 925 Asn Asp 940 Ser Ser Leu Phe Gin Pro Ser 735 Thr Cys Ala Asn Tyr 815 Cys Ile Ser Leu Thr 895 G lu Arg Arg Ser Pro Leu Pro Pro 720 Gin Asn Gly Lys Glu 800 Glu Aen Met Glu Leu 880 Pro Gin Arg Lye Asp 960 Ser Cys Ser Asp Ser Ser Ser Ser Ser Giu Ser Giu Ser Asp Ser Asp SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 h1 i i; WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 Gly Tyr Cye Cys Asp Thr Asp Ala Ser Leu Asp Ser Asp Ile Glu Asn Cys 980 985 990 Gin Asn Pro Ser Lys Cys Asp Ala Gly Cys 995 1000 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:7: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 163 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein (xi) SEQUENC Ser Ile Arg Le 
 I 
 Arg 1 Tyr Val Asn Asn Thr Ile Ala Lys Pro 145 Tyr Val Asp Val Thr Ile Asn Thr Asp 130 Ile Tyr ;E DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID iu Asn Ser His Lys Asp 5 Ls Phe Leu Ile Ser Tyr Le Leu Asp Ile Ile Lys 3p Leu Leu Lys Ser Ser 55 (r Ile Glu Pro Ala Glu 70 ir Arg Met Lys Glu Met au Tyr Pro Ile Ser Tyr 105 fs Gly Leu Leu Asn Lys 120 La Val Ala Lys Leu Met 135 Le Glu Asn Asp Thr Leu 150 NO:7: Leu Pro Thr Asn Asp Lys Ser Ile Asn Glu 75 Asn Val Cys Lys Asp Thr Ile Asp 140 Ile Tyr 155 Glu Arg Gly Ser Ile Asn Tyr 110 Ile Asp Ala Arg Ser Ile His Asp Ile Arg Tyr Ile Asp 160 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:8: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 1511 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE: ORGANISM: Amsacta moorei entemopoxvirus SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 r WO092/14818 PCI'/US92/00855, (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: CDS LOCATION: complement (18. .218) (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: CDS LOCATION: complement (234. .782) (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: CDS LOCATION: 852.. 1511 (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:8: 
 GAATTCAAGT 
 TTTAACATTT 
 TTATTTATCA 
 CCTTCAATAT 
 GAATTATTAT 
 ATTTGATTTT 
 ATAGCTTGTA 
 ATATTTCTGT 
 ATTTTATCAC 
 ATAATATCAT 
 AAATATTCTT 
 TTATCTATAT 
 TTTCGCATCA 
 TAAATATTTA 
 TATTATTATT 
 TTTTACCTAT 
 CAGAATAATA 
 AACATAATCT 
 TATTATGTTT 
 ATTTTTTTAT 
 TAAAGTCACA 
 AAAhTTGTTC 
 AATTATCTAC 
 TATTTAATAT 
 TATGAGTTAT 
 ATTCTGTTGT 
 TAAACAACAA 
 TGATAATTGT 
 TTTTTTTTTT 
 ATTATCATTA 
 ACACACAGGA 
 TTTAATTGTA 
 TTTTTCTACT 
 ATTTAATCCA 
 TAAATCATTT 
 GATATTGATT 
 ATTTCCGTCA 
 AATZ ACACAT 
 TTTGCCAGAA 
 TCATATTTTT 
 TTATTTAATT 
 CTATCTACTA 
 TTTTGCATTT 
 ACATATAAAT 
 AAAGAAG CAT 
 TTAGGAATTA 
 GCAACAATAA 
 TCTTCAAAAA 
 TCATTAATTA 
 TGATTTATTA 
 TTTTGATTAG 
 AACATAGGAC 
 TTAAAGAATC 
 CGTTATTGAT 
 ACGAAATATC 
 ATGAATAAAA 
 CTTGTCCACC 
 CTTTATAACA 
 ATTTTGATAT 
 CTTTTTTTTT 
 ATTGACACTC 
 AATTATTTGT 
 TATTTTTATT 
 ATAAAATATA 
 CAATTATTAA 
 TAATCAATGA 
 TAATAAATTT 
 ATTAACAATA 
 AGATTTTGCA 
 ATATTAATAT 
 TATTTCAATT 
 AAATTGACAT 
 AGAATTAAAT 
 ATTATTAGCC 
 ATCTATGCCA 
 TTTAATGTAT 
 TATAAATCTA 
 TCTATTAATT 
 TTCTATCGAC 
 AAAAAAATA 
 ATTTTTTTTT ATTATTTGAT ATATTTTTTC AAAAAAAAAT AAATTATCAA A ATG GAT TTA CTA AAT Met Asp Leu Leu Asn 1 5 TCT GAT ATA ATT TTA ATA AAT ATT Ser Asp Ile Ile Leu Ile Asn Ile TTA AAA TAT TAT AAT TTA AAA AAA ATA ATA ATA AAC AGA GAT AAT GTT Leu Lys Tyr Tyr Asn Leu Lys Lye Ile Ile Ile Asn Arg Asp Asn Val 20 ATT AAT ATT AAT ATA TTA AAA AAA TTA GTT AAT TTA GAA GAA TTG CAT Ile Asn Ile Asn Ile Leu Lys Lys Leu Val. Asn Leu Glu Giu Leu His 35 40 ATA ATA TAT TAT GAT AAT AAT ATT TTA AAT AAT ATT CCA GAA AAT ATT Ile Ile Tyr Tyr Asp Asn Aen Ile Leu Asn Aen Ile Pro Glu Asn Ile 55 AAA AGT TTA TAT ATT TCA AAT TTA AAT ATT ATT AAT TTA AAT TTT ATA Lys Ser Leu Tyr Ile Ser Asn Leu Asn Ile Ile Aen Leu Aen Phe Ile 70 SUBSTITUTE SHEET 938 986 1034 1082 I WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 
 GAT 
 Asp 
 CAT 
 His 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 AAT 
 Asn 135 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 ATA 
 Ile 215 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 TTT 
 Phe 120 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 CAA 
 Gin 200 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TCT 
 Ser 
 ATA 
 Ile 105 
 ATT 
 Ile 
 TTT 
 Phe 
 ATG 
 Met 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 CAT 
 His 185 
 TCA 
 Ser 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 AAT 
 Asn 
 GGT 
 Gly 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 TTA 
 Leu 170 
 TTG 
 Leu 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 TAT 
 Tyr 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTA 
 Leu 
 TTT 
 Phe 140 
 ATA 
 Ile 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 AAA 
 Lys 
 GAA 
 Glu 
 TTC 
 Phe 220 1130 1178 1226 1274 1322 1370 1418 1466 1511 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:9: (i) (ii) (xi) Met Gin Asr 1 Asp Ile Ser Asn Ile Val Asn Lys Met Cys Leu SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 67 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear MOLECULE TYPE: protein SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID SAsn Asp Asn Tyr Tyr Ser Asp 5 10 Leu Val Asp Arg Lys Lys Lys 25 Asn Ile Asn Asn Glu Leu Asn 40 SLeu Lys Asn Leu Leu Asp Ser 55 NO:9: Ile Glu Gly Ala Lys Ser Ile Gly Lye Met Ile Asn Lys Gin Leu Ser Asn Asn Leu Lys Lys Tyr Asp Cys SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 il-L...I:L C. -YC"U--~s WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 72 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NC '0: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 183 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ Met Ser Ile Olu Leu l1e 11e Gly Pro Leu Ile Asn Asn Gly Cye Asn Pro 130 Tyr Ile Met Ile His Asn Ile Asp Cys 115 Lys Lys Glu Lys His Gly Ile Glu Met Phe Glu Ala Gly 165 Ser ID Met Phe Ser Ile Leu Ser Arg Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Val Asp Glu Glu Asn 90 Lys Lys Val Phe Asn Ser Leu Gin Ala 140 Lys Lys His 155 Tyr Val Pro 170 Thr Lys Asn Ile Asp Glu Ala Lys Gin Asn Arg 175 Tyr Asn Asn 180 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:11: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 220 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: linear (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:11: Met Asp Leu Leu Asn Ser Asp Ile Ile Leu Ile Asn Ile Leu Lys Tyr 1 5 10 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 r c ,WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 Tyr Asn Tyr Tyr Lys Ser Cys Lys Pro 145 Tyr Phe Ile Leu Asn Ile Asp Ile Asn Asn Asn Leu 130 Ile Lys Asn Thr Lys 210 Asn Leu Asn Phe Lys Leu Leu 0 Phe 140 Ile Lye Lys Glu Phe 220 Val His Ile Ile Asn Asn Val 125 Asn Gin Leu Phe Asn 205 Ile Asn Ile Ile Lys Ser Thr Lys Ser Asn Cys Glu 110 Asn Leu Asn Val Ile Lys Asp Ile 175 Pro Lye 190 Tyr Asn Ile Tyr Leu Leu Ile Ser Lys Phe Asp 160 Ser Ser Tyr INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:12: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:12: GARGTNGAYC CNGARTAYGT INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:13: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 74 (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:13: TTTCAAATTA ACTGGCAACC INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:14: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:14: GGGATGGATT TTAGATTGCG INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID GCCTGGTTGG GTAACACCTC INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:16: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:16: CTGCTAGATT ATCTACTCCG INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:17: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 35 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 SWO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:17: GTTCGAAACA AGTATTTTCA TCTTTTAAAT AAATC INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:18: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:18: GAYGARGGRG GRCARTTYTT INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:19: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 17 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:19: GGNCCCATGT TYTCNGG 17 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: single TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID GGTGCAAAAT CTGATATTTC INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:21: S(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 3012 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 .i. 
 WO 92/14818 76 (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:21: PCr/US92/00855 
 ATGAGTAACG 
 ATAAAGATTT 
 CCATTATATG 
 ATAGAAGTAA 
 AAAGAAATGT 
 TATGTAAGTC 
 AATTTTAGAC 
 TTTATTTATT 
 AATAATAATT 
 TATATTTGTT 
 GATGCAACTA 
 GATATATATT 
 AGATACGGTG 
 AGTATTAAAA 
 AGAGCATATA 
 ACAGAAGTAG 
 TATAAAAAGT 
 GTATTTCCAT 
 GCATCTGATA 
 AACGACGAAA 
 GTATTCCACG 
 TTCCAATTTG 
 TGTTTAAAAC 
 ACTTCTAGAT 
 CTTAATAGAA 
 ATATTAGAGT 
 AATAATG TAT 
 AGTAGACAAG 
 AATATTAGTA 
 TGTGCTAGAG 
 GCTATGGCTA 
 TACCTTTAGC 
 ATTTAAAAGA 
 ATGTGTGTAA 
 TTGAATTAGA 
 GTTTTGAATT 
 GATTATTGCT 
 TGACTCTTAA 
 TTGTCGATGA 
 TACAAGTTAA 
 TAGGTAGAAA 
 ATATTACTTT 
 ACGAAGTTAA 
 AATTTGAAGT 
 ATTATGATAC 
 CTAAGGATGA 
 ACCCCGAGTA 
 TTGATAAATC 
 TAAGATCATT 
 CTTCGAGATT 
 ATAAAATTAT 
 AACGTGTAAA 
 TTGTAAACAG 
 CTAAAGTACC 
 TTATTAAACA 
 ATGATATATG 
 ACGCAAATAC 
 TTGATATGAA 
 ACCTTAATAA 
 GTTTGCCTGG 
 TTAGAGAATT 
 GAGATCTCGT 
 AACCAAAACA 
 TGAAAATACT 
 TGAAACTTCT 
 CAATACTCAT 
 ATTGTTCCCG 
 AGATAATGTA 
 TGGAAAACAT 
 TTTGGGAAAT 
 CAAAGATGCA 
 AGTATATTTA 
 AGATTTTAAT 
 TAATAATGAA 
 CTATAACGCA 
 TGTGATTCAA 
 AAATGGTCGC 
 TGTAACTAGT 
 TCATTTAAAA 
 ATATCTGGAA 
 AGATGTTGGT 
 ATTGGALAGAA 
 ACTTPAATAAA 
 CCCAGATACT 
 CAAAAATTTA 
 TATGGCTGAT 
 TTTAAAACAA 
 ATATCCAAAT 
 TGATAACAAA 
 CATGTCATGT 
 TTGGGTALACA 
 TTGTAAATCA 
 AAGTTTACTA 
 ATAAGAAA.AT 
 TGTTTCGALAC 
 GGTGTTACTT 
 GTTAGAATCA 
 TGTAATGTAA 
 TCACATAATG 
 TTAAAATTAA 
 TATGGATTAA 
 TCATTTATTA 
 AATGAAAAAG 
 AAATCTGTTA 
 CAAAAAGATT 
 GATACTGGAT 
 GTAGAAAGGT 
 AATCTATGTT 
 AATAATGCTT 
 ATTGTAATGC 
 TTGTCTAATG 
 ATTTACAAAT 
 ATTGAAGCAG 
 CACCAATGTA 
 ACGATTCACT 
 AGACTTTGGG 
 GGATCTGATG 
 GCCATAAAAC 
 TGCACATTAT 
 ACTATATCTG 
 ATATTAGGAA 
 CCTCACGAAG 
 TTCTGTGATC 
 TTTATGTGTA 
 TATCAAATCG 
 GTGTAGTAGA 
 TAGAATCATG 
 AAGTTCACGG 
 ACGAAGCCCA 
 ACGTAAAATA 
 AAGAAATCGA 
 TTACTAAGGA 
 CTATATTTCC 
 TAACTTTTGA 
 ATATCGCAGT 
 TAT TAAAAGA 
 TAATTTATGC 
 TGCCAGTTAA 
 TGATGAAA.AT 
 TATTGGGTAC 
 ATAACAGAGG 
 TAAAAGGATA 
 TAAATAAAAT 
 AATATAGATG 
 AATATACTCC 
 TATATGGTAT 
 GATGGATTTT 
 ATTTAGATCT 
 AACATTATAC 
 CATTGGGTAA 
 AGTATACTAA 
 TAAACATAGG 
 CTAAAATTCT 
 TTTCTAATAA 
 ACTATGTTALA 
 AAAATATGAA 
 TATGGTAGTT 
 TAGTCCAAAT 
 CGATACATTA 
 AGTATGGAAA 
 TAAATTAGCT 
 TCAACCGCTA 
 AAATATTCAA 
 ACAATATGCG 
 TGTAACTACA 
 ATCATTCCTT 
 TTTACTTAAG 
 TAAAAATCTA 
 TTTGAAAGTT 
 AACATCTAGT 
 GCTCAGAGTA 
 AAGTGGTAAT 
 TCCAGTTAAA 
 TTATGTAGAT 
 CGGAAGACAA 
 CAAATGTCCA 
 TTCTAATGTT 
 AGATTGCGAT 
 TGACGTTAGG 
 TAATGTAATT 
 TAATAGATTT 
 CTTTACAAAA 
 TAATTCCGTA 
 AAGATCTGGT 
 GAGATTCTAT 
 TATTGAAATT 
 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 540 600 660 720 780 840 900 960 1020 1080 1140 1200 1260 1320 1380 1440 1500 1560 1620 1680 1740 1800 1860 SUBSTITUTE SHEET -i WO 92/14918 PCI'/US92/00855 AACGAAGCAG TATGCGAATA TCCTGGATAT GTCATATTAT ATTAATGATT TATTATTAAT CCTATACATT ATGGATCTAC AAGAAATTTA AATATCTATT TTTGTCCAAC CTCCATTATA ACTGATAATT ATGAAAAATA GGTCTGTTGA ATACATGTAA GGATATGTTT ATGAACCATG AAAATGGCTA AAGAAGCATC AGTAATTACA ACAAATGTAA AAAACAAAAT ATTATAGAGA TCCAGATATG GATATAGAAT GATGAAAGTG AATCTCCTTG TATGGTCCTG AATATGTACA AATAACACAA ATTGTGTAAC GATAATGCAA CATGTGGAAG GACTATAGAA, AACCCCACGT AGCTGTTCAG ACAGTAGTAG ACAGATGCTA GTTTAGATTC GCAGGATGCT AA 
 TAACGGAGTA 
 TGAAAAGACT 
 CTTAAAGAAT 
 TATTTCTACT 
 TTTGGTTGAT 
 TACTATTGAT 
 CGGAACATCA 
 TAGATTAGGA 
 TAAATATGGT 
 AATATTTGAT 
 AATGGATTTA 
 CGAACGAAGA 
 TCACAGATAT 
 AAGAAATGGT 
 AAGAACAGGA 
 TTATGACAAT 
 TAGTAGTGAA 
 TGATATTGAA 
 GATAATCTAG 
 CTACCAAATG 
 AAACTAAAAG 
 TACTTTAGAA 
 TCGTCCGTAC 
 ACTAATGCTA 
 GAACATAAAA 
 AATCTAGGTT 
 TATAGAGGAG 
 TGTAATCCTA 
 CATAAAATTG 
 TGTCATTACT 
 CAAGAAT CAT 
 GAACAACACG 
 TATGGAAGAA 
 TGTGCCGATG 
 TCTGAATCTG 
 AATTGTTATC 
 TCGCAAGAGC 
 CAGGATATTC 
 AAAAGTATGG 
 ATTTAATGCG 
 CTTTATTGGA 
 AATCACAAGA 
 GAGTTGCATC 
 TTGGTTCAGA 
 TAGTAAATCG 
 TATACGAAAA 
 ATAAVhATAA GAG1RAATTTT 
 TGGAAGATAG 
 GTACGCCTAA 
 TATACGAAAA 
 GAAGTAGGGA 
 CAAATAGTTC 
 ATTCAGATGG 
 AAAATCCATC 
 TATTAAAGTA 
 AATTTCCTTA 
 TGGTGTTGAT 
 TGATGCTGAT 
 TGCTCCACCA 
 TGTTCTACAG 
 AAGTGTTATT 
 AGCATTGTGT 
 TAT TAATGAA 
 TAACAAACTA 
 TGAATTAATA 
 TGCAAATTAC 
 AGGTCTTTTA 
 TACGTTTGGA 
 TAGTTGTGGA 
 TGA.ATGGAAT 
 ATCTTCAGAT 
 ATGTTGCGAC 
 AAAATGTGAT 
 1920 1980 2040 2100 2160 2220 2280 2340 2400 2460 2520 2580 2640 2700 2760 2820 2880 2940 3000 3012 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:22: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 419 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genoniic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:22: TCAACTAATA ATAATATATT TTATGCAGTT TCAACTTTTG GATTTTTAAG ACTGGTATTA ATTTAACATA TACAAATTCT AGAGATTGTA TTATAGATTT ATTATAAAAA TAGTATATGA TCCTTGTACT GTCGAAACAT CTAACGATTG AGATTATTGA TGGCCKNTAC ATCATAAATA CATTATAATA TTATTATAAT ATTTTTATAT ATATTTTATC TAAAAGGACT TTTTATTTTT TATATATTAA 
 TACAGAAAGT 
 ATTTTCTAGA 
 TAGATTATTA 
 ATCAATCATA 
 TAATAATAAA 
 120 180 240 300 SUBSTITUTE SHEET 
 I 
 r -7 i WO 92/14818 PCr/US92/00855. 
 TGAGTAACGT ACCTTTAGCA ACCAAAACAA TAAGAAAATT ATCAAATCGA AAATATGAAA TAAAGATTTA TTTAAAAGAT GAAAATACTT GTTTCGAACG TGTAGTAGAT ATGGTAGTT INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:23: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 678 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) I JLE TYPE: DNA (genonic) (xi) JENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:23: 
 ATGTTTCTAG 
 ATTTATATAT 
 ATATTATCAT 
 TCAGATATTA 
 AATAATTTAC 
 TTTTATTCAG 
 ATAAATAGAA 
 AATGAAACTT 
 TCACATATAG 
 GTAAATAATA 
 AGATTAATAG 
 TTTGTCATAA 
 TTTATTTCAA 
 TAACATTTGT 
 ATAACGCAAC 
 TATTTTTGAC 
 AAGATATACC 
 CGTCTAGTAA 
 ATCCATTTTT 
 TTCACTGTTA 
 AATTTATGAA 
 ATATATCTAT 
 ATAAATATAA 
 ATCCATAA 
 TACATTTTTA 
 GTTTAATATA 
 TAATATAAAC 
 AAATTTTAAC 
 AATATTTAAT 
 TAATGTAAAT 
 ATTATTTAGA 
 TATAAGTTCA 
 ATCTAGATAT 
 TAATAATATA 
 CTCTATAATA 
 ATAATAATTT 
 GATTTTTTAA 
 AATATAAATA 
 ATAAATAATA 
 GTAAATAATA 
 ATATTATTAG 
 AATACATCTC 
 AATCAAAATA 
 AATAAATATG 
 TTAAATAATT 
 TCATTTTTAA 
 TATTATTTGG 
 TAAATAATAA 
 ATTTAAATTT 
 ATCTTTTAGT 
 TTATATCTAA 
 GATTAAGAAA 
 TAGCTATAGT 
 GTGATGTATT 
 TAATTATAGG 
 TTGCTATTAT 
 ATATCAACGT 
 TATTATAGGT 
 TAAAATATAT 
 ATACGATTAT 
 AACACAAGCT 
 TCAATATAAT 
 AACATTAAAT 
 TTTCAATAAT 
 AGATATAGTA 
 AGAAATACCC 
 AACTAATGTG 
 AGGAACACTT 
 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:24: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 486 base pairs TYPE: nucleic P-cid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:24: ATGTCAATAT TTATCTACTA TATTTTCAAC AATAGATTTT ATATATATAA AAGAATGAAT ACTGTACAAA TTTTAGTTGT CATATTAATA ACAACAGCAT TATCTTTTCT AGTTTTTCAA TTATGGTATT ATGCCGAAAA TTACGAATAT ATATTAAGAT ATAATGATAC ATATTCAAAT TTACAATTTG CGAGAAGCGC AAATATAAAT TTTGATGATT TAACTGTTTT TGATCCCAAC SUBSTITUTE SHEET i -1 I F i:i- -_I WO092/14818 PCU/US92/00855 79 GATAATGTTT TTAATGTTGA AGAAAAATGG CGCTGTGCTT CAACTAATAA TAATATATTT 300 TATGCAGTTT CAACTTTTGG ATTTTTAAGT ACAGAAAGTA CTGGTATTAA TTTAACATAT 360 ACAAATTCTA GAGATTGTAT TATAGATTTA TTTTCTAGAA TTATAAAAAT AGTATATGAT 420 CCTTGTACTG TCGAAACATC TAACGATTGT AGATTATTAA. GATTATTGAT GGCCAATACA 480 TCATAA 486 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 1395 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID  
 TTAAATATTA 
 TATTTTACTA 
 CATAAACTTT 
 ATTAATATCA 
 AATAAAACTC 
 AACTATATAA 
 TTCAAAAGTA 
 TAGTACATCA 
 GCTTTTTATA 
 TGGTATATAA 
 ATCTATTACG 
 TTTATCATTC 
 AGCTACTGTA 
 ATCTGTATTA 
 TGTAGATTTA 
 TATTCCTATT 
 TTTGGATAAT 
 TTTTTTAGAT 
 AGTCCAAAAT 
 ATTTGGATCT 
 GATTCTAAAC 
 CATACATTCA 
 TTATTTTTTA 
 TATCTAGAAA 
 ATAGA.ATAAT 
 TATAAAAATA 
 TTAAAAAAGT 
 ATGTA'IAAAT 
 GTCATATCAG 
 CCACTACTAT 
 CAACAAGTAA 
 ATTAAAAAAA 
 GCAATATTTT 
 ATCATAGTTA 
 TCATGTTTTC 
 TGAGCATCCA 
 TCTGATTTTA 
 GTAATAAAAr2 
 AGAAAAAATT 
 AAAACTAATT 
 TATTCTTCTC 
 TAATTCTATT 
 TATTAAATAT 
 TAAATAATGC 
 ATAATTTTTT 
 TTATATTAAA 
 AATAATTTAC 
 AAGCATA.ATT 
 ATTCAATAAA 
 TAAAAAAGTA 
 AATGATCATT 
 ATTTTACTCT 
 TATCAGTTTT 
 ATGGATATAT 
 TTGGGTAAGC 
 AATCATCATA 
 GAAAAGACTT 
 TATTAATATT 
 TTCTTTTAAT 
 CATTATATAA 
 ATTATCAATA 
 ACTATTTTTT 
 TTCTrAATGTA 
 ACCTCTATAA 
 AAATTCAAAT 
 CATACCACAA 
 ATTTTTAAAT 
 AGTATTAGGA 
 CATATATTTT 
 TGCAGCTTTT 
 ATAAATTATA 
 ATCTTCAAGT 
 TTCAAATAAA 
 ACAATTATAT 
 TTTAGGTTTA 
 AATTGTGGCA 
 TCTCATATAT 
 TATATTTTTA 
 ATTATTTTCA 
 TATTTCCAAG 
 TRACTATCAT 
 TTATACATAT 
 TTTTTAAATT 
 CTACTAGCCA 
 TTAGATTTTA 
 TCGGGACTAT 
 ATATCATTTA 
 GTA TTATTGT 
 TTATTTTGTT 
 TTATCTTTAT 
 GGAAACATAA 
 TTATAGCATC 
 ATCAAATGXA 
 ATATCTCCCG 
 GGATTAAATC 
 AATGTAGAAA 
 ACTAATGGAA 
 TCTTGTAAAT 
 AAATTAATAT 
 TATTTTATAG 
 AATCATTTTT 
 CTATTAATTC 
 CGTCAATACT 
 ATAAATCACC 
 TGTTGAA.ATA 
 CATATTGTAA 
 AATATTCTGA 
 AGTGTTTATG 
 TTATAAGTTC 
 CAAAGTGTTT 
 AAAATCTTTT 
 TCATAGATGA 
 AATAATCATA 
 AACTTAACCA 
 CCAAAGGCGG 
 AATCTCTTGT 
 TGCCTTTATA 
 ATTTTTTTAT 
 TATTAATATG 
 GTATAAATGT 
 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 540 600 660 720 780 840 900 960 1020 1080 1140 1200 SUBSTITUTE SHEET 
 I 
 4 
 F, 
 i i l-C l~ ~.~Eli~FU t I WO 92/14818 pcri TACTTTACCT CTTGTTTCAT CATCATCATC TATTTTTTCT AATATAGCTA TATTTGCATT AGTATTATAT TTAATAGGAT TTATAAAATA TACCATATTA TCTATTTTAC TAAAAAATAA CATAGACATA AAATTAATAC CAGATTCTGG CATTTTTAAA TTTTTATTTG GAAATCTTCT AATTTTATTA TTCAT INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:26: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 237 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:26: TTATTTTTTT TTTTTGCTTT TAGGTATAAT TTTACCTTCT AAACGTTTAT CTCCCCAAAC ATCTACAGTA GATGGTTTAT TAGATTCTGT GTTATACACA TCTGCTGGAT TTGCGGCATT TGTATCCAAA CCATAATATC CAGGTCTATA ATTATCTTTA AAAACTTGGG ATTGAGATAC TTCTTCAGTT TTTTAATTAT TAAAATATCC AAGATTATTT TTTTTTGATG AAGACAT US92/00855 1260 1320 1380 1395 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:27: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 492 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:27: CTATTCATAA TAATCATCTG CTATATATAT TAATGTATCA TTCTCTATTA TATATTGTCT TTATCAATCA TTAATTTTGC TACAGCTGTA TTATCTTTAT TGTGTCTTTG TTTAATAAAC CTTTTAATAT AGTGGCTCTA TCATAATCTT TATGGGATAT AATTTTATAT TAATAATAAC ATTAGATACG TTCATTTCTT TTTACGTATT GTGTCAAAAA TTATTTCATT TTCTGCTGGT TCTATATATT ATGAATAGAT TCGATAGATG ATGATTTTAA TAAATCAAAT ATAACATTTA TTTATCTTTT ATAATATCTA ATATTTCTTT ATCTACAGAT TTTCTGTTGT TATTAAAAAA TGAACGTTAA CATATCTATA TTCTTGTGGT AAATCTTTAT TCTTATAGAT CT 
 TAAATATAGG 
 ATACTATATT 
 TACAATATGA 
 TCATTCTAGT 
 TATATGTGTT 
 TTTTACCTTG 
 TGGTATATGA 
 GAGAATTTAA 
 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 SUBSTITUTE SHEET fii-~a: ll:s~ *Ilpr~ WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:28: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 549 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:28: 
 TTAATATGAA 
 TTCAATTATT 
 TTGACATATA 
 ATTAAATATA 
 ATTAGCCATT 
 TATGCCAATA 
 AATGTATAAA 
 AAATCTATTA 
 TTATTATAAC 
 TGATTTTTAT 
 GCTTGTAATT 
 TTTCTGTTAA 
 TTATCACAAA 
 ATATCATAAT 
 TATTCTTTAT 
 TCTATATTAT 
 ATAATCTACA 
 TATGTTTTTT 
 TTTTTATTTT 
 AGTCACAATT 
 ATTGTTCTAA 
 TATCTACGAT 
 TTAATATATT 
 GAGTTATAAT 
 CACAGGAACA 
 AATTGTAAAA 
 TTCTACTTTA 
 TAATCCAGCA 
 ATCATTTTCT 
 ATTGATTTCA 
 TCCGTCATGA 
 TACACATTTT 
 TATAAATCTT 
 GAAGCATCTT 
 GGAATTAATT 
 ACAATAACTT 
 TCAAAAAATT 
 TTAATTAAAT 
 TTTATTATAT 
 TGATTAGATA 
 ATAGGACCALS 
 GTCCACCTAT 
 TATAACAAAA 
 TTGATATAGA 
 TTTTTTTATT 
 GACACTCATC 
 TATTTGTTTT 
 TTTTATTTAT 
 AAATATATCT 
 TTATTAATTC ATTAATTTTT CGCATCAATT CTGTTGTTTT GCCAGAAAAC 
 TATCGACAT 
 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID N0!29: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 69 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NOz29: TTTTTTTTAT TATTTGATAT ATTTTTTCAA AAAAAAATTA ATCAATGAAA AAAAAATAAA 
 ATTATCAAA 
 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 141 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCr/!US92/00855, (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID AAACATAGGA CCAATTATTA ATTrCTATCGA CATTTTTTTT TATTATTTGA TATATTTTTT CAAAAAAAAA TTAATCAATG AAAAAAAAAT AAAATTATCA AAATGGATTT ACTAAATTCT GATATAATTT TAATAAATAT T INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:31: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 20L base! pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:31: TTATAAACAA CAATCATATT TTTTTAAAGA ATCTAATAAA TTTTTTAACA TTTTATTATT ATTTGATAAT TGTTTATTTA ATTCGTTATT GATATTAACA ATATTATTTA TCATTTTACC TATTTTTTTT TTTCTATCTA CTAACGAAAT ATCAGATTTT GCACCTTCA.A TATCAGAATA ATAATTATCA TTATTTTGCA T INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:32: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 660 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:32: 
 ATGGATTTAC 
 AAAATAATAA 
 TTAGAAGAAT 
 ATTAAAAGTT 
 AAAAATATAA 
 CTACCACATT 
 ATTAATAATT 
 AATAATGTTT 
 TATAAATTTA 
 TAAATTCTGA 
 TAAACAGAGA 
 TGCATATAAT 
 TATATATTTC 
 CATATTTAGA 
 CTATAGAATT 
 TAGTAAATTT 
 TTCCTATTAG 
 TAGAAAAATT 
 TATAATTTTA ATAAATATTT 
 TAATGTTATT 
 ATATTATGAT 
 AAr,TTTAAAT 
 TATATCTTAT 
 TTTAAATTGT 
 AAAAAAATTA 
 TATAGTTGAG 
 AATTAATTTA 
 AATATTAATA 
 AATAATATTT 
 ATTATTAATT 
 AACAAAAATA 
 GAATCATGTA 
 ATAATATCTA 
 TTAAATATGG 
 AAAAAATTAG 
 TAAAATATTA 
 TATTAAAAAA 
 TAAATAATAT 
 TAAATTTTAT 
 GCAATATA.AG 
 ATATAAATGA 
 AAAATAAATT 
 AATCAATACA 
 ATATATCTTT 
 TAATTTAAAA 
 ATTAGTTAAT 
 TCCAGAAAAT 
 AACAAAATTA 
 TAATATTATA 
 CTATAATTTT 
 TGGTAACTTT 
 AATAAAAGAT 
 CAATGTTAAA 
 SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCr/US92/00855 AAAAATAATA TACATTTGAT AAAATTTCCA AAAAGTATAA CTCATTTATG TGATTATCAA TCATATAAAG AAAATTATAA TTATTTAAAA AATTTATCAA ATATAATTGA ATATGAATTC INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:33: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 3907 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:33: 
 TTCTAAACGT 
 CACATCTGCT 
 TTTAAAAACT 
 ATTTTTTTTT 
 TCTACTATAT 
 TAGTTGTCAT 
 CCGAAAATTA 
 GAAGCGCAAA 
 ATGTTGAAGA 
 CTTTTGGATT 
 ATTGTATTAT 
 AAACATCTAA 
 ATAATATTAT 
 ATTTTTTATA 
 AAAATTATCA 
 CGAACGTGTA 
 TACTTTAGAA 
 AATCAAAGTT 
 TGTAAACGAA 
 TAATGACGTA 
 ATTAAAAGAA 
 ATTAATTACT 
 TATTACTATA 
 TTATCTCCCC 
 GGATTTGCGG 
 TGGGATTGAG 
 GATGAAGACA 
 TTTCAACAAkT 
 ATTAATAACA 
 CGAATATATA 
 TATAAATTTT 
 AAAATGGCGCC 
 TTTAAGTACA 
 AGATTTATTT 
 CGATTGTAGA 
 TATAATATCA 
 TATTAATAAT 
 AATCGAAAAT 
 GTAGATATGG 
 TCATGTAGTC 
 CACGGCGATA 
 GCCCAAGTAT 
 AAATATAAAT 
 ATCGATCAAC 
 AAGGAAAATA 
 TTTCCACAAT 
 AAACATCTAC 
 CATTTGTATC 
 ATACTTCTTC 
 TAATTGATAT 
 AGATTTTATA 
 ACAGCATTAT 
 TTAAGATATA 
 GATGATTTAA 
 TGTGCTTCAA 
 GAAAGTACTG 
 TCTAGAATTA 
 TTATTAAGAT 
 ATCATAATTT 
 AATAAATGAG 
 ATGAAATAAA 
 TAGTTCCATT 
 CAAATATAGA 
 CATTAAAAGA 
 GGAAATATGT 
 TAGCTAATTT 
 CGCTATTTAT 
 TTCAAAATAA 
 ATGCGTATAT 
 AGTAGATGGT 
 CAAACCATAA 
 AGTTTTTAAA 
 TATAATACTT 
 TATATAAAAG 
 CTTTTCTAGT 
 ATGATACATA 
 CTGTTTTTGA 
 CTAATAATAA 
 GTATTAATTT 
 TAAAAATAGT 
 TATTGATGC 
 TTATATATAT 
 TAACGTACCT 
 GATTTATTTA 
 ATATGATGTG 
 AGTAATTGAA 
 AATGTGTTTT 
 AAGTCGATTA 
 TAGACTGACT 
 TTATTTTGTC 
 TA"TTTACAA 
 TTGTTTAGGT 
 TTATTAGATT CTGTGTTATA TATCCAGGTC TATAATTATC TTATTAAAAT ATCCAAGATT TATAGATATG TCAATATTTA AATGAATACT GTACAAATTT TTTTCAATTA TGGTATTATG TTCAAATTTA CAATTTGCGA TCCCAACGAT AATGTTTTTA TATATTTTAT GCAGTTTCAA AACATATACA AATTCTAGAG ATATGATCCT TGTACTGTCG CAATACATCA TAAATACATT TTTATCTAAA AGGACTTTTT TTAGCAACCA AAACAATAAG AAAGATGAAA ATACTTGTTT TGTAATGAAA CTTCTGGTGT TTAGRCAATA CTCATGTTAG GAATTATTGT TCCCGTGTAA TTGCTAGATA ATGTATCACA CTTAATGGAA AACATTTAAA GATGATTTGG GAAATTATGG GTTAACAAAG ATGCATCATT AGAAAAGTAT ATTTAAATGA 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 540 600 660 720 760 840 900 960 1020 1080 1140 1200 1260 1320 1380 SUBSTITUTE SHEET WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855, 
 AAAAGTAACT 
 TGTTAATATC 
 AGATTTATTA 
 TGGATTAATT 
 AAGGTTGCCA 
 ATGTTTGATG 
 TGCTTTATTG 
 AATGCATAAC 
 T.AATGTAAAA 
 CAAATTAAAT 
 AGCAGAATAT 
 ATGTAAATAT 
 TCACTTATAT 
 TTGGGGATGG 
 TGATGATTTA 
 AA.AACAACAT 
 ATTATCATTG 
 ATCTGAGTAT 
 AGGAATAAAC 
 CGAAGCTAAA 
 TGATCTTTCT 
 GTGTAACTAT 
 ATTATTCGCA 
 TCTAGCAGGA 
 AAATGAAAAG 
 AAAAGATTTA 
 TAGAACTTTA 
 CGTACAATCA 
 TGCTAGAGTT 
 TAAAATTGGT 
 AGGTTTAGTA 
 AGGAGTATAC 
 TTTGATGTAA 
 GCAGTATCAT 
 AAAGATTTAC 
 TATGCTAAAA 
 GTTAATTTGA 
 AAAATAACAT 
 GGTACGCTCA 
 AGAGGAAGTG 
 GGATATCCAG 
 AAAATTTATG 
 AGATGCGGAA 
 ACTCCCAAAT 
 GGTATTTCTA 
 ATTTTAGATT 
 GATCTTGACG 
 TATACTAATG 
 GGTAATAATA 
 ACTAACTTTA 
 ATAGGTAATT 
 ATTCTAAGAT 
 AATAAGAGAT 
 GTTAATATTG 
 AGAGCTATTA 
 TATTCAATTT 
 TATGGTGGTG 
 ATGCGTGATG 
 TTGGATGCTC 
 CAAGATGTTC 
 GCATCAAGTG 
 TCAGAAGCAT 
 AATCGTATTA 
 GAAAATALACA 
 CTACAGATGC 
 TCCTTGATAT 
 TTAAGA.GATA 
 ATCTAAGTAT 
 AAGTTAGAGC 
 CTAGTACAGA 
 GAGTATATAA 
 GTAATGTATT 
 TT"AAGCATC 
 TAGATAACGA 
 GACAAGTATT 
 GTCCATTCCA 
 ATGTTTGTTT 
 GCGATACTTC 
 TTAGGCTTA 
 TAATTATATT 
 GATTTAATAA 
 CAAAAAGTAG 
 CCGTAAATAT 
 CTGGTTGTGC 
 TCTATGCTAT 
 AAATTAACGA 
 AAGTAATTAA 
 CCTTACCTAT 
 TTGATAAGAA 
 CTGATTTTGT 
 CACCAACTGA 
 TACAGGGTCT 
 TTATTGGATA 
 TGTGTAAAAT 
 ATGAAAGTAA 
 AACTAAAAAC 
 AACTAATATT 
 ATATTACGAA 
 CGGTGAATTT 
 TAAAAATTAT 
 ATATACTAAG 
 AGTAGACCCC 
 AAAGTTTGAT 
 TCCATTAAGA 
 TGATACTTCG 
 CGAAAATAAA 
 CCACGAACGT 
 ATTTTTGTA 
 AAAACCTAAA 
 TAATTTATT 
 TAGAAATGAT 
 AGAGTACGCA 
 TGTATTTGAT 
 ACAAGACCTT 
 TAGTAGTTTG 
 TAGAGTTAGA 
 GGCTAGAGAT 
 AG CAGTATCC 
 TGATTTATTA 
 ACATTATGGA 
 ATTTAAATAT 
 CCAACCTCCA 
 TAATTATGAA 
 GTTGAATACA 
 TGTTTATGAA 
 GGCTAAAGAA 
 TTACAACAAA 
 AAAATATTAT 
 ACTTTAGATT 
 GTTAATAATA 
 GAAGTCTATA 
 GATACTGTGA 
 GATGAAAATG 
 GAGTATGTAA 
 AAATCTCATT 
 TCATTATATC 
 AGATTAGATG 
 ATTATATTGG 
 GTAAAACTTA 
 AACAGCCCAG 
 GTACCCAAAA 
 AAACATATGG 
 ATATGTTTAA 
 AATACATATC 
 ATGAATGATA 
 AATAACATGT 
 CCTGGTTGGG 
 GAATTTTGTA 
 CTCGTAAGTT 
 GAATATCCTG 
 TTAATTAACG 
 TCTACTGAAA 
 CTATTCTTAA 
 TTATATATTT 
 AAATATTTGG 
 TGTAATACTA 
 CCATGCGGAA 
 GCATCTAGAT 
 TGTAATAALAT 
 AGAGAAATAT 
 TTAATAAATC 
 ATGAACAAAA 
 ACGCAGATAC 
 TTCALAGTAGA 
 GTCGCAATCT 
 CTAGTAATAA 
 TAAAAATTGT 
 TGGAATTGTC 
 TTGGTATTTA 
 AAGAAATTGA 
 ATAAACACCA 
 ATACTACGAT 
 ATTTAAGACT 
 CTGATGGATC 
 AACAAGCCAT 
 CAAATTGCAC 
 ACAAAACTAT 
 CATGTATATT 
 TAACACCTCA 
 AATCATTCTG 
 TACTATTTAT 
 GATATGTCAT 
 GAGTAGATAA 
 AGACTCTACC 
 AGAATAAACT 
 CTACTTACTT 
 TTGATTCGTC 
 TTGATACTAA 
 CATCAGAACA 
 TAGGAAATCT 
 ATGGTTATAG 
 TTGATTGTAA 
 1440 1500 1560 1620 1680 1740 1800 1860 1920 1980 2040 2100 2160 2220 2280 2340 2400 2460 2520 2580 2640 2700 2760 2820 2880 2940 3000 3060 3120 3180 3240 3300 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 n 1'~ 
 F 
 WO092/14818 PCr/US92/00855 
 TCCTAATAAT 
 AATTGGAGAA 
 TTACTTGGAA 
 ATCATGTACG 
 ACACGTATAC 
 AAGAAGAAGT 
 CGPATGCAAAT 
 ATCTGATTCA 
 TTATCAAAAT 
 TTAACTTACA 
 GTGATAA 
 AATAATGAAT 
 ATTTTTGCAA 
 GATAGAGGTC 
 CCTAATACGT 
 GAAAATAGTT 
 AGGGATGAAT 
 AGTTCATCTT 
 GATGGATGTT 
 CCATCAAAAT 
 AGTTATAAAA 
 TAATATCCAG 
 ATTACGATGA 
 TTTTATATGG 
 TTGGAAATAA 
 GTGGAGATAA 
 GGAATGACTA 
 CAGATAGCTG 
 GCGACACAGA 
 GTGATGCAGG 
 ATCATTAAAA 
 ATATGGATAT 
 AAGTGAATCT 
 TCCTGAATAT 
 CACAAATTGT 
 TGCAACATGT 
 TAGAAAACCC 
 TTCACACAGT 
 TGCTAGTTTA 
 ATGCTAAATG 
 TGATTTTTTA 
 AGAATAATGG 
 CCTTGCGAAC 
 GTACATCACA 
 GTAACAAGAA 
 GGAAGAAGAA 
 CACGTTTATG 
 AGTAGTAGTA 
 GATTCTGATA 
 AAATTTAATA 
 AAATGATATT 
 ATTTACATAA 
 GAAGATGTCA 
 GATATCAAGA 
 ATGGTGAACA 
 CAGGATATGG 
 ACAATTGTGC 
 GTGAATCTGA 
 TTGAAAATTG 
 TTATATAATA 
 ATCGATAGTT 
 3360 3420 3480 3540 3600 3660 3720 3780 3840 3900 3907 
 I 
 I 
 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:34: SEQUENCE CIHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 25 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: Region LOCATION: 3 OTHER INFORMATION: /note= either Asn or Arg."1 (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: R~egion LOCATION: 12 OTHER INFORMATION: /note= either Asn or Arg."1 "This amino acid may be "This amino acid may be (xi) Met 1 Ile SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:34: Ala Xaa Asp Leu Val. Ser Leu Leu Phe Met Xaa Xaa Tyr Val Asn 5 10 Glu Ile Asn Glu Ala Val Xaa Glu INFORM.1TION FOR SEQ ID SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 17 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: peptide SUB3STITUTE  
 SHEET 
 -I 
 I 
 SWO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 86 (ix) FEATURE: NAME/KEY: Region LOCATION: OTHER INFORMATION: /note= "This amino acid may be either Thr or Ile." (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID Met Lys Ile Thr Ser Ser Thr Glu Val Asp Pro Glu Tyr Val Xaa Ser 1 5 10 Asn INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:36: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 8 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:36: Asn Ala Leu Phe Phe Asn Val Phe 1 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:37: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 7 amino acids TYPE: amino acid TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: peptide (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:37: Glu Val Asp Pro Glu Tyr Val 1 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:38: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 66 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:38: ATGGCTAGAG ATCTCGTAAG TTTACTATTT ATGTGTAACT ATGTTAATAT TGAAATTAAC GAAGCA 66 SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 LI 
 WO 92/14818 87 INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:39: SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 51 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO ATGAAAATAA CATCTAGTAC AGAAGTAGAC CCCGAGTi INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS: LENGTH: 24 base pairs TYPE: nucleic acid STRANDEDNESS: double TOPOLOGY: unknown PCT/US92/00855 :39: ATG TAACTAGTAA T (ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic) (xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID AATAATAGAT TTAATAATGT ATTT SUBSTITUTE  
 SHEET 
 1 fi WO 92/14818 PCT/US92/00855 87A American Type Culture Collection 12101 rarklIwn Drive Rock, llc, M D 20152 USA Telephone: (301)231.5520 Tiles: 198-05 ATCCNORTH FAXi 301-770-2517 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF TIE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE INTERNA TIONAL FORM RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT ISSUED PURSUANTTO RULE 7.3 AND VIABILITY STATEMENT ISSUED PURSUANTTO RULE 10.2 To: (Name and Address of epositor or Attorney) University of Florida Attention: Richard W. Moyer, Ph.D. 
 Department of Immunology and Medical Microbiology College of Medicine Box J-266 J. Hillis Miller Health Center Galnesville, FL 32610-0266 Deposited on Behalf of: University of Florida Identification Reference by Depositor: ATCC Designation Escherichia coli SURE strain Stratagene, pMEG-tkl 68532 Escherlchia coil (Stratagene SURE strain), pRH512 68533 The deposits were accompanied by: a scientific description X a proposed taxonomic description Indicated above. 
 The deposits were received February 26. 1991 by this International Depository Authority and have been accepted. 
 AT YOUR REQUEST: X We will inform you of requests for the strains for 30 years. 
 The strains will be made available if a patent office signatory to the Budapest Treaty certifies one's right to receive, or if a U.S. Patent is issued citing the strains. 
 If the cultures should die or be destroyed during the effective term of the deposit, it shall be your responsibility to replace them with living cultures of the same. 
 The strains will be maintained for a period of at least 30 years after the date of deposit, and for a period of at least five years after the most recent request for a samole. The United States and many other countries are signatory to the Budapest Treaty. 
 The viability of the cultures cited above was tested March 11, 1 91. On that date, the cultures Swere viable. 
 International Depository Authority: American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Md. 20852 USA Signature of person having authority to represent ATCC: bblA. PH a P Date: March 13. 1991 Bobble A. Brandon, Head, ATCC Patent Depository cc: Roman Saliwanchik Bruce Clary SUBSTITUTE SHEET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
