
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Promoters for Expression in Modified Vaccinia Virus Ankara The invention concerns promoters, in particular for the expression of genes and/or coding sequences in vaccinia viruses such as Modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA). The invention further concerns expression cassettes comprising said promoter, vectors comprising said expression cassettes as well as pharmaceutical compositions and vaccines.      Background of the invention Recombinant poxviruses are widely used to express foreign antigens in infected cells. Moreover, recombinant poxviruses are currently tested as very promising vaccines to induce an immune response against the foreign antigen expressed from the poxvirus vector. Most popular are avipoxviruses on the one side and vaccinia viruses, in particular Modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) on the other side. MVA is related to vaccinia virus, a member of the genera Orthopoxvirus in the family of Poxviridae. MVA has been 2o generated by 516 serial passages on chicken embryo fibroblasts of the Ankara strain of vaccinia virus (CVA) (for review see Mayr, A., et al. Infection 3, 6-[1975]). As a consequence of these long-term passages the resulting MVA virus deleted about 31 kiiobases of its genomic sequence and, therefore, was described as highly host cell restricted to avian cells (Meyer, H. etal., J.  Gen. Virol. 72, 1031-1038 [1991]). It was shown, in a variety of animal models that the resulting MVA was significantly avirulent (Mayr, A. & Danner, K. [1978] Dev. Biol. Stand. 41: 225-34). Additionally, this MVA strain has been tested in clinical trials as vaccine to immunize against the human smallpox disease (Mayr et al., Zbl. Bakt. Hyg. !, Abt. Org. B 167, 375-390 [1987], Stickl et al., so Dtsch. med. Wschr. 99, 2386-2392 [1974]).  
  US 5,736,368 and US 6,051,410 disclose recombinant vaccinia virus strain Wyeth that expresses HIV antigens and proteins. US 5,747,324 discloses a recombinant vaccinia virus strain NYCBH expressing lentivirus genes. EP 0 243 029 discloses a recombinant vaccinia virus strain Western Reserve expressing human retrovirus genes. WO 02/42480 discloses particularly safe and attenuated MVA strains. Recombinant MVA are disclosed inter alia in WO 98/13500 and WO 03/048184.   For the expression of heterologous genes in pox viruses only a few promoters ~.o are known to the person skilled in the art, such as the 30K and 40K promoters (see e.g. US 5,747,324), a strong synthetic early/late promoter (see e.g. Sutter et al., Vaccine (1994) 12, 1032-40), the P7.5 promoter (see e.g. Endo et al., J. Gen. Virol. (1991) 72, 699-703) and the promoter derived from the cowpox virus A-type inclusion (ATI) gene (Li et al., J. Gen. Virol. 15 (1998) 79, 613). All of these promoters have been used in recombinant vaccinia viruses to express heterologous genes and were shown to express said genes resulting in the production of the protein encoded by the heterologous gene. Since only a few promoters are available for the expression of genes in vaccinia virus expression systems there is general zo need for alternative promoters in vaccinia viruses. In addition, all of the promoters known so far are rather strong late promoters, i.e. useful for the expression of genes after the replication of the vaccinia virus vector has occurred. For some application it is desirable to have promoters allowing the expression of genes immediately after the infection of the cells, i.e. there is a 25 need for vaccinia virus early promoters.      Moreover, as pointed out above, MVA is a very promising virus for the expression of heterologous genes due to its improved safety profile.      However, all promoters known so far for the expression of heterologous so genes in MVA were derived from other vaccinia viruses or are synthetic promoters for the expression in other vaccinia virus. Thus, there is also a need for promoters optimized for the expression in MVA.  
  Detailed description of the invention The invention concerns promoters derived from the genome of Modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA). MVA promoters were not yet known in the art.  In particular the invention concerns a promoter comprising or consisting of a nucleotide sequence selected from the group comprising (i) the nucleotide sequence of anyone of the following SEQ ID N0: 1 to 6:      Zo 5'TCTGCAATATTGTTATCGTAATTGGAAAAATAGTGTTCGAGTGAGTTGGATTAT      GTGAGTATTGGATTGTATATTTTATTTTATATTTTATATTTTGTAGTAAGAATAGAA      TGGTAATGTCAAGTTTATTCCAATAGATGTCTTATTAAAAAACATATATAATAAATA      ACA 3'(SEQ ID N0:1) i5 5'GATAAAAATTTAAAGTGTAAATATAACTATTATTTTATAGTTGTAATAAAAAGGGA      AATTTGATTGTATACTTTCGGTTCTTTAAAAGAAACTGACTTGATAAAA 3'(SEQ      D N0: 2) 5'GCATTTCATCTTTCTCCAATACTAATTCAAATTGTTAAATAAATAATGGATAGTA 2o TAAATAGTTATTAGTGATAAAATAGTAAAAATAATTATTAGAATAAGAGTGTAGTAT      CATAGATAACTCTCTTCTATAAAA 3° (SEQ ID N0: 3) 5'GATCTATAAAGGTAGACCTAATCGTCTCGGATGACCATATATTTATTTTCAGTTT      TATTATACGCATAAATAGTAAAAAATATGTTAGGTTTACAAAA 3° (SEQ ID N0: 4) 5°GGTAAACTTTAAGACATGTGTGTTATACTAAGATGGTTGGCTTATTCCATAGTA      GCTTGTGGAATTTATAAACTTATGATAGTAAAACTAGTACCCAATATGTAAAGATG      AAAAAGTAAATTACTATTAACGCCGTCGGTATTCGTTCATCCATTCAGTT 3°(SEQ      I D N0: 5) 5'ATTTCTCGGTAGCACATCAAATGATGTTACCACTTTTCTTAGCATGCTTAACTTG      ACTAAATATTCATAACTAATTTTTATTAATGATACAAAAACGAAATAAAACTGCATA  
  TTATACACTGGTTAACGCCCTTATAGGGTCTAACCATTTTCAAG 3' (SEQ ID N0: 6) (ii) subsequences of the sequence according to anyone of SEQ ID: No. 1 to 6 (iii) sequences having one or more nucleotide substitutions, deletions and/or insertions with respect to the sequences as defined in (i) or (ii).      SEQ ID N0: 1 to 6 are naturally part of the MVA genome and are located zo upstream of the reading frames A42R, J6R, F6R, 12R, C7L and B9R, respectively.      The promoters according to the present invention are preferably active as vaccinia virus promoters or active as promoters in vaccinia virus infected cells. The vaccinia virus is preferably MVA, in particular one of the MVA strains as specified below. "Active as vaccinia virus promoter" means that the promoter is able to direct the expression of a gene to which it is operably linked in a vaccinia virus after infection of cells with said virus. The veils are preferably cells that allow late and/or early expression of the vaccinia virus. "A promoter active in vaccinia virus infected cells" includes also the situation in which the promoter is not part of a vaccinia virus genome, e.g. part of a plasmid or a non-vaccinia virus viral genome; in such a situation the promoter according to the present invention is active if the cell comprising the promoter also comprises a vaccinia virus genome, e.g. if the cell is infected with a vaccinia virus. Under these circumstances the viral RNA polymerase recognizes the promoter according to the present invention and the expression of the gene/coding sequence that is finked to the promoter is activated. so According to the present invention it is possible to use anyone of the promoters as specified in SEQ ID N0: 1 to SEQ ID N0: 6. The promoter that is actually used to direct the expression of the gene/coding sequence may consist of anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to SEQ ID N0: 6 or the actually used promoter may be a larger structure that comprises anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 6. Alternatively it is within the scope of the present invention to use a derivative of these promoters, which may be a subsequence of the 5 sequences as defined in anyone of SEQ. ID N0: 1 to 6. The term "subsequence of the sequences according to anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to 6" refers to shorter fragments of anyone of SEQ lD N0: 1 to 6 that are still active as a promoter, in particular as promoter in vaccinia virus or in vaccinia virus infected cells.      Again, the vaccinia virus is preferably MVA, such as one of the strains 1o specified below. A typical subsequence of anyone of SEQ ID N0:1 to SEQ ID  N0: 6 has a length of at least 15 nucleotides, more preferably of at least 20 nucleotides, even more preferably of at least 25 nucleotides, most preferably of at least 30 nucleotides of anyone of the sequences of SEQ ID N0:1 to SEQ      ID N0: 6 .      A preferred subsequence of SEQ lD N0:1 is SEQ ID N0:7. A preferred subsequence of SEQ ID N0: 2 is SEQ ID N0: S. Preferred subsequences and/or derivatives of said subsequences of SEQ ID N0: 3 are SEQ ID N0: 9 and SEQ CD N0: 10. Preferred subsequences of SEQ ID N0: 4 are SEQ ID zo N0: 11 and SEQ ID N0: 12. The sequences of SEQ ID N0: 6 to 12 are given in the example section.      The derivative of the promoter comprising or consisting of a nucleotide sequence of anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to 6 or subsequences thereof, in z5 particular the derivative of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID N0: 7 to SEQ  ID   N0: 12 can also be a sequence that has one or more nucleotide substitutions, deletions and/or insertions with respect to any one of the sequences of SEQ ID   N0:1 to 6 or subsequences thereof, in particular of the nucleotide sequences of SEQ 1 D N0: 7 to SEQ ID N0: 12. The derivatives according to the present so invention are still active as a promoter, in particular as vaccinia virus promoter in a vaccinia virus or in vaccinia virus infected cells, more preferably as MVA promoter in MVA or in MVA infected cells. A sequence having one or more nucleotide substitutions is a sequence in which one or more nucleotides ofi the sequence according to anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to 6 or subsequences thereof, such as the sequences according to anyone of SEQ ID N0: 7 to 12 are su bstituted by different nucleotides. A sequence having one or more nucleotide insertions is a sequence in which one or more nucleotides are inserted at one or more locations anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to 6 or subsequences thereof, in particular of the nucleotide sequences ofi SEQ ID N0:  
 7 to SEQ ID N0: 12. A sequence having one or more nucleotide deletions is a sequence in which one or more nucleotides of the sequence according anyone zo ofi SEQ ID N0: I to 6 or subsequences thereof, in particular of the nucleotide sequences ofi SEQ ID N0: 7 to SEQ ID N0: 12 are deleted. In the derivatives according to the present invention deletions, substitutions and insertions may be combined in one sequence. ~.5 An example of an derivative of a subsequence according to the present invention is SEQ lD N0: 10, which is a subsequence of SEQ ID N0: 3 having in addition one nucleotide exchange with respect to the corresponding nucleotide sequence in SEQ ID N0: 3. zo Preferably the derivative has a homology of at least 40%, more preferably of at least 60/0, even more preferably of at least 80/p, most preferably of at least 90%o when compared to anyone of the sequence of SEQ ID N0: 1 to SEQ ID     N0: 6 or subsequences thereof, in particular of the sequences according to anyone of SEQ ID N0: 7 to SEQ ID N0: 12. According to the most preferred z5 embodiment not more than 10 nucleotides, even more prefierably not more than 5 nucleotides are substituted, deleted and/or inserted in the sequence of anyone ofi SEQ ID N0: 7 to SEQ iD N0: 12. A bundle ofi prior art documents allows the person skilled in the art to predict 3o which derivatives or subsequences of anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to 12 still have the biological activity of being active as a vaccinia virus promoter, in particular as a promoter active in MVA. In this context reference is made to Chakrarbarti et al., Biotechniques (1997) 23, 1094-1097 and Davison and Moss, J. Mol.   Biol. (1989) 210, 771-784. Moreover, whether a fragment is still active as a vaccinia virus promoter, in particular as a MVA promoter can easily be evaluated by a person skilled in the art. In particular the sequence derivative can be cloned upstream of a reporter gene in a plasmid construct. Said construct may be transfected into a eukaryotic cell or cell line, such as CEF  or BHK cells that has been infected with MVA. The expression of the reporter gene is determined and compared to the expression of the reporter gene controlled by the promoter according to anyone of SEQ lD N0: 1 to 6. A 1o derivative according to the present invention is a derivative having a promoter activity in said test system of at least 10 j'o, preferably of at least 30%, more preferably of at least 50%, even more preferably of at least 70%, most preferably of at least 90% compared to the activity of the promoter sequence of anyone of SEQ ID N0: 1 to 6. Also those derivatives of anyone of SEQ ID   N0: 1 to 12 are within the scope of the present invention that have a higher promoter activity.     The promoters according to the present invention are particularly suitable for the expression of coding sequences in MVA.     The promoter according to SEQ ID N0: 1 has a very strong activity, in particular as late promoter although it can also be used as early promoter.      The same considerations apply for the corresponding subsequences such as the sequence of SEQ ID N0: 7, which is, however, particularly useful as late promoter.   The promoter according to SEQ ID N0: 2 also has a rather sfrong activity, in particular as late promoter. It can also be used as early promoter. The same considerations apply for the corresponding subsequences, such as the 3o sequence of SEQ ID N0: 8, which is, however, particularly useful as late promoter.  
  The promoter according to SEQ ID N0: 3 is particularly useful as early promoter and has the highest early promoter activity of al! promoters tested.      However, it can also be used as late promoters. The same considerations apply for the corresponding subsequences, such as the sequences of SEQ ID      N0: 9 and 10, respectively. Of these subsequences SEQ ID N0: 9 is particularly useful as early promoter and SEQ ID N0: 10 is particularly useful as late promoter. The promoter according to SEQ ID N0: 4 is particularly useful if it is intended Zo to express a linked coding sequence early and late since this promoter has a rather high activity under early as well as late conditions. The same considerations apply for the corresponding subsequences, such as the sequences of SEQ ID N0: 11 and 12, respectively. Of these subsequences SEQ      ID N0: 11 is particularly useful as early promoter and SEQ ID N0: 12 is particularly useful as late promoter. The promoters according to SEQ ID N0: 5 and 6 are particularly useful if it is intended to express linked coding sequences in rather low amounts. This is sometimes desirably if the linked coding sequence encodes a toxic gene 2o product and/or if it is intended to induce a high avidity immune response. The term "early promoter" refers to promoters that are active in vaccinia virus or vaccinia virus infected cells, before viral DNA replication has occurred.      Methods are known to the person skilled in the art how it can be checked whether a promoter is an early promoter. In particular, the promoter of interest can be inserted upstream of a reporter gene. The construct comprising the promoter and the reporter gene are introduced into cells that are infected with a vaccinia virus. In order to assess for the activity as early promoter the cells are incubated with a substance that inhibits the DNA so replication such as AraC. DNA replication is a prerequisite for the late promoter activity. Thus, any promoter activity that is measured in this assay system is due to elements active as early promoter. Consequently, the term "late promoter" refers to any promoters that are active after DNA replication has taken place. The late activity can also be measured by methods known to the person skilled in the art. For the sake of simplicity the term "late promoter" as used in the present application refers to the activity of a promoter that is determined if no substance is added that blocks DNA repl ication.      According to a further embodiment the present invention refers to an expression cassette comprising the promoter according to the present io invention and a coding sequence, wherein the expression of the coding sequence is controlled by said promoter. The expression cassette is preferably not an expression cassette that occurs naturally in the genome of a vaccinia virus. Thus, if the promoter according to the present invention is a promoter that naturally occurs in the genome of the vaccinia virus the sequence to which the promoter is linked is preferably different from the sequence to which the promoter is naturally linked in the vaccinia virus genome. In other words, if the promoter according to the present invention is identical to a naturally occurring promoter the coding sequence the expression of which is controlled by the promoter and/or the sequences located between the 2o promoter and the coding sequence are different from the corresponding sequences to which said promoter is naturally linked. The term "different" in this context refers to sequences that show at least one nucleotide difference in said sequence. Preferably it is the coding sequence which has at least one nucleotide difference. According to other alternatives the homology between the coding sequence in the expression cassette and the sequence to which the promoter is naturally linked is less than 90 /o, less than 80%, less than 70%, less than 60~, less than 50%, less than 40% or even less than 20%. Most preferably the coding sequence that is controlled by the promoter according to the present invention codes for a peptide/protein having a difference of at so least one amino acid compared to the naturally occurring protein encoded by said coding sequence. By way of example the expression cassette is not the expression cassette comprising the naturally occurring vaccinia virus C7L     promoter directing the expression of the naturally occurring C7L gene, e.g.  the expression cassette is not the expression cassette disclosed in W02004/015118 comprising the C7L promoter and the C7L coding sequence.      On the other hand, if the sequence which should be expressed is a naturally occurring vaccinia virus sequence the promoter that is used to express said sequence is different from the promoter that is directs the expression of the coding sequence in the natural context. According to this alternative the Zo nucleotide sequence of the promoter differs in at least one nucleotide from the sequence of the naturally occurring vacciniavirus promoter. According to other alternatives the homology between the promoter according to the present invention that controls the expression of the vaccinia virus sequence and the naturally occurring promoter linked to the vaccinia virus sequence is less than 90 %, less than 80%, less than 70°0, less than 60%, less than 50% or even less than 40%.  Preferably the coding sequence may code for at least one antigenic epitope or antigen, therapeutic peptides or proteins, antisense RNA or ribozymes. If the 2o coding sequence encodes an antigenic epitope or antigen the expression cassette may be used to express said antigen after introduction of said expression cassette in cells in an organism, e.g. a mammalian animal including a human. The presentation of said antigen/epitope may elicit an immune response in the organism that may lead to a vaccination of the organism against the agent from which the antigen/epitope is derived. More specifically the epitope/antigen may be part of a larger amino acid sequence such as a polyepitope, peptide or protein. Preferably the coding sequence codes for at least one antigenic epitope or antigen, therapeutic peptides or proteins, antisense RNA or ribozymes which are not encoded by a vaccinia so virus genorne.     Examples for such polyepitopes, peptides or proteins may be polyepitopes, peptides or proteins derived from (i) viruses, in particular viruses other than vaccinia viruses, such as HIV, HTLV, Herpesvirus, Denguevirus, Poliovirus, measles virus, mumps virus, rubella virus, Hepatitis viruses and so on, (ii) bacteria, (iii) fungi, (iv) tumor related polypeptides/proteins such as tumor related antigens.      Alternatively the coding sequence may encode a therapeutic compound such as interleukins, interferons, ribozymes or enzymes. in more general terms the invention concerns any nucleic acid sequence comprising the promoter according to the present invention and/or the expression cassette according to the present invention. The nucleic acid may be RNA, e.g. if the promoter is part of a retroviral genome. More preferably the is nucleic acid is DNA. The DNA may be any type of DNA such as linear, circular, single stranded or double stranded DNA.      According to a further embodiment the promoter and/or expression cassette according to the present invention may be part of a vector. The term "vector" 2o refers to any vectors known to the person s(cilled in the art. A vector can be a plasmid vector such as pBR322 or a vector of the pUC series. More preferably the vector is a virus vector. In the context of the present invention the term "viral vector" or "virus vector" refers to an infectious virus comprising a viral genome. In this case the DNA of the present invention is 25 part of the viral genome of the respective viral vector. The recombinant viral genome is packaged and the obtained recombinant vectors can be used for the infection of cells and ceil tines, in particular for the infection of living. animals including humans. Typical virus vectors that may be used according to the present invention are adenoviral vectors, retroviraf vectors or vectors so on the basis of the adeno associated virus 2 (AAV2). Most preferred are poxviral vectors. The poxvirus may be preferably a canarypox virus, a fowlpoxvirus or a vaccinia virus.     More preferred is modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) (Sutter, G. et al. [1994], Vaccine 12: 1032-40; Antoine, G. et al. [1998], Virology 244: 365-396). The term "MVA" as used in the present application refers to any MVA strain known in the prior art. An example for an MVA strain is deposit VR-1508, deposited at the American Type Culture collection (ATCC), Manassas, VA 20108, USA. Further examples for MVA virus strains used according to the present invention are strains MVA 572 and 575 deposited at the European Collection of Animal Cel! Cultures (ECACC), Salisbury (UK) with Zo the deposition number ECACC V94012707 and ECACC V00120707, respectively, MVA-BN with the deposition number ECACC V00083008.      The most preferred MVA-strain is MVA-BN or a derivative thereof, The features of MVA-BN, the description of biological assays allowing to evaluate whether a MVA strain is MVA-BN or a derivative thereof and methods allowing to obtain MVA-BN or a derivative thereof are disclosed in W0 02/42480. The content of this application is included in the present application by reference. in particular, reference is made to the definition of the properties of vaccinia virus according to the invention as described in zo WO 02/42480, such as the properties of MVA and the properties and definitions of the derivates of MVA-BN. Said reference also discloses how MVA and other vaccinia viruses can be propagated. Briefly, eukaryotic cells are infected with the virus. The eukaryotic cells are cells that are susceptible to infection with the respective poxvirus and allow replication and production z5 of infectious virus. For MVA an example for this type of cells are chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF) and BHK cells (Drexler I., Heller K., Wahren B., Erfle V, and Sutter G. "Highly attenuated modified vaccinia Ankara replicates in baby hamster kidney cells, a potential host for virus propagation, but not in various human transformed and primary cells" J. Gen. Virol. (1998), 79, so 347-352). CEF cells can be cultivated under conditions known to the person skilled in the art. Preferably the CEF cells are cultivated in serum-free medium in stationary flasks or roller bottles. The incubation preferably takes place 48 to 96 hours at 37° C ~ 2° C. For the inflection MVA is preferably used at a multiplicity of infection (M01) of 0,05 to 1 TCIDSO and the incubation preferably takes place 48 to 72 hours at 37 °C ~ 2°  C.      Methods are known to the person skilled in the art how the expression cassette or the promoter according to the present invention can be inserted into a viral genome, in particular into the genome of a vaccinia virus, most preferably into the genome of MVA. By way of example, the expression cassette or the promoter or derivative thereof according to the present zo invention may be inserted into the genome of MVA by homologous recombi nation. To this end a nucleic acid is transfected into a permissive cell line such as CEF or BHK cells, wherein the nucleic acid comprises the expression cassette or the promoter or derivative thereof according to the present invention flanked by nucleotide stretches that are homologous to the region of the MVA genome in which the expression cassette or the promoter or derivative thereof according to the present invention is to be inserted. The cells are infected by MVA and in the infected cells homologous recombination occurs between the nucleic acid and the viral genome. Alternatively it is also possible to first infect the cells with MVA and then to transfect the nucleic acid 2o into the infected cells. Again recombination occurs in the cells. The recombinant MVA is then selected by methods known in the prior art. The construction of recombinant MVA is not restricted to this particular method.     Instead, any suitable method known to the person skilled in the art may be used to this end.     The expression cassette or the promoter according to the present invention may be introduced into any suitable part of the vector, in particular into a viral genome. In case of vaccinia viruses the insertion may be made into non-essential parts of the viral genome or into an intergenic region of the viral so genome. The term "intergenic region" refers preferably to those parts of the viral genome located between two adjacent genes that do not comprise coding sequences. If the vector is MVA the insertion may also be made into a naturally occurring deletion site of the viral genome. The term "naturally occurring deletion site" refers to those parts of the viral genome that are deleted with respect to the genome of the vaccinia virus Copenhagen strain.   However, the insertion sites are not restricted to these preferred insertion s sites in the vaccinia virus genome and the MVA genome, since it is within the scope of the present invention that the expression cassette may be inserted anywhere in the viral genome as long as it is possible to obtain recombinants that can be amplified and propagated in at least one cell culture system, such as Chicken Embryo Fibroblasts (CEF ceils~.      The promoter according to the present invention may be used to express a gene that is already part of the vector, e.g. the genome of MVA. Such a gene may be a gene that is naturally part of the viral genome or a foreign gene that has already been inserted into the vector. In these cases the promoter according to the present invention is inserted upstream of the gene in the vector, the expression of which is to be controlled by the promoter. A MVA vector comprising an expression cassette according to the present invention can also be made by replacing anyone of the open reading frames A42R, J6R, F6R, 12R, C7L and B9R by a coding sequence the expression of which is to be 2o controlled by the promoter naturally controlling the expression of anyone of said open reading frames. Thus, by way of example the A42R coding sequence or parts thereof may be replaced by the coding sequence, which is to be expressed. In the resulting construct said coding sequence is controlled by a promoter according to the present invention, namely by the promoter sequence according to SEQ ID N0: 1 and SEQ ID N0: 7. These expression cassettes are also within the scope of the present invention.      According to a further embodiment the invention concerns the vector according to the present invention as vaccine or medicament. In more general 3o term the invention relates to a vaccine or pharmaceutical composition comprising an expression cassette, a DNA or a vector according to the present invention. Methods are known to the person skilled in the art how the vaccine or pharmaceutical composition can be administered to the animal or human body. In case of DNA and plasmid vectors the DNA and the vector can simply be administered by injection. If the vector is a viral vector such as a vaccinia virus vector, in particular a MVA vector it may also be administered to the 5 animal or human body according to the knowledge of the person skilled in the art, e.g. by i ntra venous, intra muscular, intra nasal, intra dermal or subcutaneous administration. Further details on the amount of virus administered are given below. Zo The pharmaceutical composition or the vaccine may generally include one or more pharmaceutical acceptable and/or approved carriers, additives, antibiotics, preservatives, adjuvants, diluents and/or stabilizers in addition to the promoter, expression cassette or vector according to the present invention. Such auxiliary substances can be water, saline, glycerol, ethanol, 15 wetting or emulsifying agents, pH buffering substances, or the like.  Suitable carriers are typically large, slowly metabolized molecules such as proteins, polysaccharides, polylactic acids, polyglycollic acids, polymeric amino acids, amino acid copolymers, lipid aggregates, or the like. 2o For the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions or vaccines, the DNA, expression cassette or vector according to the present invention, in particular a recombinant vaccinia virus such as recombinant MVA is converted into a physiologically acceptable form. For vaccinia viruses, in particular MVA this can be done based on the experience in the preparation of poxvirus vaccines used for vaccination against smallpox (as described by Stickl, H. et al. [1974] Dtsch. med. Wschr. 99, 2386-2392). For example, the purified vi rus is stored at -80°C with a titre of 5x108 TCID5o/ml formulated in about 1 OmM Tris, 140 mM NaCI pH 7.4. For the preparation of vaccine shots, e.g., 101-109 particles of the recombinant virus according to the so present invention are lyophilized in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) in the presence of 2/o peptone and 1~ human albumin in an ampoule, preferably a glass ampoule. Alternatively, the vaccine shots can be produced by stepwise freeze-drying of the virus in a formulation. This formulation can contain additional additives such as mannitol, dextran, sugar, glycine, lactose or polyvinylpyrrolidone or other additives such as antioxidants or inert gas, stabi I izers or recombinant proteins (e.g. human serum albumin) suitable for in vivo administration. A typical virus containing formulation suitable for freeze-drying comprises 10 mM Tris-buffer, 140 mM NaCI, 18.9 g/I Dextran (MW 36000 - 40000), 45 g/1 Sucrose, 0.108 g/I L-glutamic acid mono potassium salt monohydrate pH 7.4. The glass ampoule is then sealed and can be stored between 4°C and room temperature for several months.      Zo However, as long as no need exists the ampoule is stored preferably at temperatures below -20°C. For vaccination or therapy the lyophilisate or the freeze-dried product can be dissolved in 0.1 to 0.5 ml of an aqueous solution, preferably water, physiological saline or Tris buffer, and administered either systemically or locally, i.e. by parenteral, intramuscular or any other path of administration know to the skilled practitioner. The mode of administration, the dose and the number of administrations can be optimized by those skilled in the art in a known manner. 2o Thus, according to a related embodiment the invention relates to a method for affecting, preferably inducing an immunological response in a living animal body including a human comprising administering the expression cassette, the DNA, the vector, the pharmaceutical composition or the vaccine according to the present invention to the animal or human to be 5 treated. If the vaccine is a vaccinia virus, in particular MVA a typical vaccine shot for humans comprises at least 102, preferably at least 104, more preferably at least 106, even more preferably 10~ or 108 TCIDSO (tissue culture infectious dose) of the virus. 3o If the vaccine is a recombinant MVA, in particular recombinant MVA-BN and its derivatives that the virus may be used for prime-boost administration.    Thus, the invention further relates to a method, wherein the vector is MVA, in particular MVA-BN and its derivatives, and wherein said vector or the composition or the vaccine comprising said vector is administered to an animal, including a human in need thereof, in therapeutically effective amounts in a first inoculation ("priming inoculation") and in a second inoculation ("boosting inoculation").      The invention further concerns a method for introducing a coding sequence into a target cell comprising the introduction of the vector, the expression cassette or of the DNA according to the present invention into the target cell. 1o If the vector is a vaccinia virus, in particular MVA such as MVA-BN the target cell may be a cell in which the virus is able to replicate such as CEF or BHK cells or a cell that can be infected by MVA, but in which the virus does not replicate (such as all types of human cells for MVA-BN). z5 The invention further relates to a method for producing a peptide, protein and/or virus comprising the infection of a host cell with a virus vector according to the present invention, followed by the cultivation of the infected host cell under suitable conditions, and further followed by the isolation and/or enrichment of the peptide and/or protein and/or viruses produced by 2o said host cell. If it is intended to produce, i.e. amplify the virus according to the present invention the cell has to be a cell in which the virus is able to replicate. For vaccinia viruses, in particular MVA suitable cells are CEF or BHK cells. if it is intended to produce a peptide/protein encoded by the virus vector according to the present invention the cell may be any cell that can be infected by the virus vector and that allows the expression of the virus encoded proteins/peptides.     The invention further relates to a method for producing a peptide, protein and/or virus comprising the transfection of a cell with the expression ao cassette, the DNA or the plasmid vector according to the present invention, followed by the infection of the cell with a vaccinia virus. The infected host cell is cultivated under suitable conditions. A further step comprises the isolation and/or enrichment of the peptide and/or protein and/or viruses produced by said host cell. The step of infecting the cells with a vaccinia virus may be made before or after the step of transfection of the cells.      The invention further relates to cells comprising a promoter, DNA, expression cassette or vector according to the present invention. In particular the invention relates to cells infected with the virus vector according to the present invention.      S hort Description of the Figures Figure 1: GUS activity after expression by different promoters Cells were infected with MVA-BN and transfected with the appropriate plasmids. After 48 hours the cells were extracted and the GUS activity was 15 determined indirectly by measuring the extinction at 415 nm after an enzymatic reaction, which causes the development of yellow colour. Zex = negative control (MVA-BN infected cells). 2o Figure 2: GUS activity after early and early/late expression Cells were infected with MVA-BN and transfected with the appropriate plasmids. After 24 hours cells were extracted and the GUS activity was determined indirectly by measuring the extinction at 415 nm after an enzymatic reaction, which causes the development of yellow colour. Zex = 25 negative control (MVA-BN infected cells). For that enzymatic reaction, samples without AraC (early+late) expression had to be incubated for 5 hours, the one with AraC (early expression) had to be incubated over night in order to obtain a color reaction. so Figure 3: GUS activity after expression by different promoters Cells were infected with MVA-BN and transfected with the appropriate plasmids. After 24 hours the cells were extracted and the GUS activity was determined indirectly by measuring the extinction at 415 nm after an enzymatic reaction, which causes the development of yellow colour. Control = negative control (MVA-BN infected cells).      Examples The following examples) will further illustrate the present invention. It wil be well understood by a person skilled in the art that the provided examples) in no way may be interpreted in a way that limits the applicability Zo of the technology provided by the present invention to this example(s).      Example 1: Analysis of promoters to express coding sequences in the MVA-BN genome 15 1.1 Aim of the experiment:   It was the aim of this analysis to identify promoters that are suitable to express coding sequences in the MVA genome, preferably coding sequences that are heterologous to the natural MVA genome. Especially for the ~.o insertion of two or more genes in a single insertion site it is advantageous to use different promoters for expression of the single genes in order to reduce the risk of recombination events, which could result in deletion of one of the foreign genes. Furthermore it is desirable to have promoters of different strength in order to have the possibility to express the foreign genes inserted z5 in recombinant MVA-BN in variable amounts, depending on the strength of the promotor. I1 putative promoters were isolated in total. These putative promoter sequences were cloned in a plasmid backbone (pBSKS+). In order to analyse their potential activity, the promoters were fused to the GUS (E. coli f3-Glucuronidase ) reporter gene. BHK (baby hamster kidney) cells were so infected with MVA-BN and transfected with the plasmids containing the putative promoters fused to the GUS gene. If the promoter was functional, GUS was expressed and could be quantified by an enzymatic reaction of GUS. As positive control and as reference the well-characterized Vaccinia virus promoter's p7.5 and Ps were fused to GUS and analysed in parallel. By measurement of the GUS expression the putative promoters were screened on activity, strength and early/late expression. The early/late expression was 5 checked by adding AraC (Arabinosid Cytosine) to the culture media. The promoters, which are shown to be functional, namely the Ps, p7.5, 7.5L and ATI promoter which were known in the prior art as well as the newly identified promoter sequences that are naturally involved in the expression control of the MVA ORF's, A42L, B9R, C7L, F6R, 12R, J6R preferably can be Zo used for the expression of foreign genes in recombinant MVA constructs (recMVA-BN). 1,2 Material 15 Cells: BHK cells Virus: MVA-BN standard crude stock (7.5 x l0~ TCID5o) DNA: pAB-GUS (Ps promoter + GUS) pBNX71 (pBluescript + Vaccinia virus pr7.5 +GUS) pBNX73 (pBluescript + Cowpox virus ATI promoter + GUS) 2o pBN81 (pBluescript + modified H5R promoter + GUS1) pBN61 (pBluescript + MVA B1R promoter + GUS) pBN62 (pBluescript + MVA B2R promoter + GUS) pBN63 (pBluescript + MVA B3R promoter + GUS) pBN60 (pBluescript + MVA A30R promoter + GUS) z5 pBN82 (pBluescript + Vaccinia virus 7.5 L promoter + GUS) pBN83 (pBluescript + MVA C7L promoter (SEQ ID N0: 5 +     GUS) pBNX49 (pBluescript + MVA A42R promoter (SEQ ID N0: 1) +      GUS) so pBNX69 (pBluescript + MVA 12R promoter (SEQ ID N0: 4)+      GUS) pBNX72 (pBluescript + MVA K5L promoter + GUS) pBNX83 (pBluescript + MVA F6R promoter (SEQ ID N0: 3) +      GUS) pBNX84 (pBluescript + MVA B9R promofer (SEQ ID N0: 6 +      GUS) pBNX85 (pBluescript + MVA J6R promoter (SEQ ID N0:2) +      GUS) Transfection kit: Effectene transfection kit (Qiagen) Media and Supplements: DMEM (Gibco BRL) withl0~p FCS (Gibco BRL) ro Chemicals and Buffers: Lysisbuffer (PBS + 0.1 % Triton + 1 mM protease inhibitor) AraC (Sigma, Cat. No. C1768) GUS substrate 1mM (p-Nitrophenyl-beta-(D)-glucuronide; Sigma, Cat. No.      N 1627) Stop solution 2.5 M (2-amino-2-methyl-1,3-propandiol; Sigma, Cat. No. A 9754) Z.3 Methods 2o Seeding of cells 5 x 105 BHK cells were seeded per transfection reaction in a well of a 6-well-plate and maintained in DMEM/10%FCS over night at 37°C and 5% COz.      Infection/transfectionCells were infected with MVA-BN (moi 0.1) in 0.5 ml 25 DMEM/10% FCS per well and incubated for 1 h at room temperature on a shaker. Transfection was performed as described in the manufacturers protocol. 2 pg plasmid were diluted in buffer EB (100 pl total volume). After addition of 3.2 ~I enhancer solution the solution was mixed and incubated for 5 min. at room temperature. Then 10 pl Effectene reagent was added, so suspension was mixed and incubated for 10 min. at room temperature. The virus-suspension was removed from the cells and 1.6 ml DMEM/10%FCS were added. 0.6 ml DMEM/10%FCS were added to the DNA Effectene mixture and dropped on the cells while rotating the culture plate. Cells were then incubated 7, 24 or 48 hours dependent on the analysis. For the analysis of early/late expression AraC was added to the medium during infection and transfection (40 ~g/ml).      Harvesting of the cells Medium was removed from cells and 0.5 ml of Lysis buffer was added. After shaking 15 min. at RT, cells were scraped in the Lysis buffer, transferred to a 1.5 ml reaction tube and vortexed vigorously. Lysed cells were centrifuged Zo for 1 min. at 500 rcf and 4°C, the clear supernatant was transferred to a fresh vial and stored at -20°C until use.      Determination of GUS activity ul of cell extract (= protein out of 2 x 104 cells) was added to 1 ml pre-i5 warmed substrate solution (37°C) and incubated at 37°C until a yellow colour was developed. Samples were then placed on ice immediately and 0.4 ml stop solution was added. The Extinction at 415 nm was determined and equated with the GUS activity as extinction values between 0.05 and 2.0 are in a linear range. The substrate solution was used as reference and a cell 2o extract of MVA-BN infected cells was used as negative control. 1.4 Experiments and Results Experiment 1: Determination of function of putative promoters For the first experiment all piasmids, which contain a putative MVA promoter or a well-characterized promoter fused to the GUS gene, were analysed.      Cells were infected with MVA-BN (moi 0.1) and transfected with the corresponding plasmid: Cells were harvested after 48 hours, lysed and GUS so activity was determined. This experiment was performed in order to determine, which promoters are functional. The results are shown in Fig. 1.     The negative control (extract from MVA-BN infected cells) clearly showed no GUS activity (Zex; extinction 0.001). The well-characterized strong synthetic Ps promoter was shown to be very efficient (Ps; extinction 0.87) as there was a high amount of GUS detectable after 48 hours of expression. The also well-known naturally occurring Vaccinia virus pr7.5 promoter did show also a quite high activity (p7.5; extinction 0.41). Also the late portion of pr7.5 (7.5L; extinction 0.25) shows a clearly detectable activity. The Cowpox ATI promoter clearly showed to be very efficient for the expression of foreign genes by MVA-BN (ATI; extinction 0.76). For the putative promoter regions Zo of the MVA-BN genome, it was shown that A42R (A42; extinction 0.48), B9R (B9; extinction 0.06), C7L (C7; extinction 0.055), F6R (F6; extinction 0.208), 12R (12; extinction 0.130) and J6R (J6; extinction 0.290) are functional promoters. The promoters, which clearly showed to be active (extinction > 0.05) in the first preliminary experiment, were characterized in more detail 15 (Experiment 2).      Experiment 2: Characterization of Expression of promoters The promoters, which did show activity in experiment 1 were characterized on their pattern of expression. For that purpose, the cells infected with MVA-2o BN and transfected with the corresponding plasmid were incubated with AraC. AraC inhibits the DNA replication, which is an essential prerequisite for the late expression of genes during the MVA replication cycle. In parallel the same experiment was performed without addition of AraC. Infected and transfected cells were harvested after 24 hours and the GUS activity was 25 determined in triplicate. Fig. 2 shows the average extinction of each sample, Afifer incubation without AraC (-AraC) for 24 hours, the total GUS expression (early+late) is clearly detectable for all promoters (Fig. 2: right columns).     The strength of the newly identified promoters in declining succession is: so 12R (12) > A42R (A42) > F6R (F6) > J6R (J6) > B9R (B9) = C7L (C7).     The promoters B9, C7 and J6 were shown to be mainly involved in the late expression during the life cycle of MVA, as incubation with AraC (+AraC), which inhibits late expression, results in an expression-level of GUS comparable to that of the negative control (Zex). Although the C7L promoter appeared to be rather weak several hints exist, that it plays an important role during early expression.      The promoters A42R, 12R and F6R clearly show a very efficient early expression. As for the determination of the early expression the samples had 1o to be incubated over night in order to get a detectable color reaction.  These results cannot be compared to the values of the early+late expression (Fig. 2: - AraC) directly as they only were incubated for 5 hours. The promoters, which did show early expression were analysed again after 7 hours of expression and the results after 24 hours could be confirmed (data not ~5 shown). 1,5 Conclusion It was clearly shown, that promoters of different strength could be obtained zo and that there is now a spectrum of different promoters available, which show different expression patterns dependent on the incubation period and on the possibility of MVA-BN to replicate. If early + late expression is preferred, promoters A42R, 12R and F6R are preferably used. If the early expression should be avoided (e.g. for foreign genes, which contain the stop 25 signal TTTTTNT for early expression), the promoters B9R, J6R or C7L are preferably used.      Example 2: Analysis of minimal promoter elements derived from SEQ ID      NO: 1 to 4 In example 1 several sequences have been identified that are particularly suitable to express foreign genes in the MVA genome. In order to check whether shorter fragments fulfil! the same purpose additional experiments were carried out. Shorter fragments of SEQ ID NO 1 to 4 were isolated by PCR and cloned in a plasmid backbone (pBSKS+). In total 6 putative minimal promoters were tested. In order to analyse their potential activity, 5 the promoters were fused to the GUS reporter gene. BHK cells were infected with MVA-BN and transfected with the plasmids containing the putative minimal promoters fused to the GUS gene. By measurement of the GUS expression the putative promoters were screened on activity and strength of expression (see example 1). As positive control and as reference the well-1o characterized Vaccinia virus late promoter Ps was fused to GUS and analysed in parallel. The minimal promoter elements of about 30 by can be used for the expression of foreign genes in recombinant MVA constructs (recMVA-BN) without the risk of homologous recombination between the homolgous sequences of the original and the additionally cloned promoter. 2.1 Material and Method if not indicated otherwise the materials and methods used in example 2 correspond to the methods in example 1. PCR was made according to 2o standard techniques. 2.2 Experiments and Results Fusion of promoters to GUS gene by PCR    The PCR reactions resulted in the fusion of the following minimal promoter sequences to the GUS gene:      SEQ ID N0: 7 ("A42 short late")TCTTATTAAAAAACATATATAATAAATAACA      SEQ ID N0: 8 ("J6R short late")GATAAAAATTTAAAGTGTAAATATAACTAT so SEQ ID N0: 9 ("F6R short early) AGAGTGTAGTATCATAGATAACTCTCTTCTATAAAAT    SEQ ID N0: 10 ("F6R short late")ATTGTTAAATAAATAATGGATAGTATAAAT     SEQ ID N0: ~1 ("12R short early")AGTAAAAAATATGTTAGGTTTACAAAA      SEQ ID N0: 12 ("12R short late") ATTTATTTTCAGTTTTATTATACGCATAAAT      All putative minimal promoters fused to the GUS gene were cloned in pBSKS+ and sequenced.      Determination of function of the putative minimal promoters In order to analyse functionality of the putative minimal promoter elements the BHK cells were infected with MVA-BN (moi 1.0) and transfected with the corresponding plasmid. Cells were harvested after 24 hours, lysed and GUS io activity was determined (Fig. 3).    The negative control (extract from MVA-BN infected cells) clearly showed no GUS activity (control; average extinction 0.00167). The well-characterized strong synthetic Ps promoter was shown to be very efficient (Ps; average extinction 2.05267) as there was a high amount of GUS detectable after 24 hours of expression. For the putative promoter minimal promoter elements of the MVA-BN genome, it was shown that all of F6R short early, F6R short late, 12R short early, 12R short late, A42R short late and J6R short late are functional promoters. 2o In total six functional minimal promoter elements were isolated. Two are suitable for the weaker early transcription (12R short early: average extinction 0.06933; F6R short early: average extinction 0.189) and four are suitable for late expression of different levels (F6R short late: average extinction: 0.09833; 12R short late: average extinction 0.391; J6R short late: 2s average extinction: 0.80167 and A42R short late: average extinction 2.07). 2.3 Conclusion It was clearly shown, that promoters of different strength could be isolated and that there is now a spectrum of different promoters available. If early 3o expression is preferred, the minimal promoter F6R short early or 12R short early are preferably used. If the late expression is preferred and early expression should be avoided (e.g. for foreign genes, which contain the stop signal TTTTTNT for early expression), the minimal promoter elements F6R short late, 12R short fate, J6R short late and A42R short late are preferably used.     Applicant's or agent's file g[vj 54 PCT InternationalapplicationNo. referencemunber INDICATIONS RELATING TO A DEPOSITED MICROORGANISM (PCT Rule l3bis) A. The indicationsmadebelowrelatetothemicroorganismreferredtointhedescription onpage ~~ , line _ ~~               B. IDENTIFICATION OFDEPOSIT          Further deposits are identified on an additional sheet Nameofdepositaryinstitution public Health Laboratory Services Centre for Applied Microbiology & Research Address of depositary instihrtion (inclndirag postal code nrad counhy) Porton Down Salisbury, SP4 OJG                 United Kingdom Dateofdeposit          AccessionNumber January 27, 1994               94012707 C. ADDITIONAL INDICATIONS (leave blank if not applicable) This information is continued on an additional sheet In respect of all designated States to which such action is possible and to the extent that it is legally permissible under the law of the designated State, it is requested that a sample of the deposited microorganism be made available only by the issue thereof to an independent expert, in accordance with the relevant patent legislation.      E.g., EPC Rule 28 (4); UK Patent Rules 1995, Schedule 2, Paragraph 3; Australian Regulation 3.25(3); Danish Patents Act Sections 22 and 33(3) and generally similar provisions mutatis mutandis for any other designated State;                   D. DESIGNATED STATES FOR WHICH       INDICATIONS ARE MADE (iftbe indicntionsarenotf'orall derignatedStates) E. SEPARATE FURNISHING OF INDICATIONS(leaveblan/cifnotapplicable) The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (sped the general nature oftbe indicatiorzr e.g., 'Accession Nnrr:ber of Deposit') Forreceiving Office use only ForIntemational Bureau use only Thissheetwasreceivedwiththeinternationalapplication ~ This sheet wasreceivedbytheInternationalBureauon:      Authorized officer n I I Authorized officer \~, ei~l~~      Form PCT/R0/I34 (July 199?) Applicant's or agent's file [jN 54 PCT InternationalapplicationNo. referencemunber INDICATIONS RELATING TO A DEPOSITED MICROORGANISM (PCT Rule l3bis) A. The indications made below relate to the microorganismreferredtoiuthedescription onpage ~~,. , liue ~Q               B. IDENT1FICATIONOFDEPOSIT Further deposits are identified on an additional sheet Nameofdepositatyinstitution ECACC                               European Collection of Cell Cultures Address of depositary instihttion (including yostnl code ernd coanrtry) Centre for Applied Microbiology & Research Salisbury Wiltshire SP4 OJG                   United Kingdom Date ofdeposit                 AccessionNumber December 7, 2000               00120707 C. ADDITIONALINDICATIONS(leaveblankifrrotapplica6Je) Thisinfotmationiscontinuedonanadditionalsheet In respect of all designated States to which such action is possible and to the extent that it is legally permissable under the law of the designated State, it is requested that a sample of the deposited microorganism be made available only by the issue thereof to an independent expert, in accordance with the relevant patent legislation.     E.g., EPC Rule 28 (4j; UK Patent Rules 1995, Scheduie 2, Paragraph 3; Australian Regulation 3.25(3); Danish Patents Act Sections 22 and 33(3) and generally similar provisions mutatis mutandis for any other designated State;                   D. DESIGNATED STATES  FORVfHICHINDICATIONSAREMADE(ift/~eindicntionsarenotforal/designatedStates) E. SEPARATE FURNISHINGOFINDICATION5(leaveblankifraotapplicrrble) The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (specfi'tlregeneralnatrrreafthehrdicatlorrse,~,'ilccession Number of Deparit') For receiving Office use only ForInternational Bureau use only This sheet was receivedwiththeintemationalapplication ~  ThissheetwasreceivedbythelnternationalBureauon:      Authorized officer 1 /~ 1 I Atvthorizedofficer Form PCT/It0/134 (7uly 1992) Applicant's or agent's file g[~ 54 PCT IntemationalapplicationNo. referencenmnber (PCT Rule l3bzs) A. The indicationsmadebelowrelatetotliemicroorganismreferredtointliedescription on page ~ .~ , line 1'( B. IDENTIFICATIONOFDEPOSIT Further deposits are identified on an additional sheet Nameofdepositaryinstitution ECACC                               European Collection of Cell Cultures Address of depositary institution (including postal code and count>7r) Centre for Applied Microbiology & Research Salisbury Wiltshire SP4 OJG                   United Kingdom Date of deposit                AccessionNumber August 30, 2000          00083008 C. ADDITIONALINDICATIONS(leaveblanlsifnotapplicable) Thisinformationiscontinuedonanadditionalsheet In respect of all designated States to which such action is possible and to the extent that it is legally permissable under the law of the designated State, it is requested that a sample of the deposited microorganism be made available only by the issue thereof to an independent expert, in accordance with the relevant patent legislation.      E.g., EPC Rule 28 (4); UK Patent Rules 1995, Schedule 2, Paragraph 3; Australian Regulation 3.25(3); Danish Patents Act Sections 22 and 33(3) and generally similar provisions mutatis mutandis for any other designated State;                   D. DESIGNATED STATES FOR WHICH       INDICATIONS ARE MADE (ifthe indications are notforall designated States) E. SEPARATE FURNISHING OF INDICATIONS (leaveblankifnotnpplicable) The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (spec~tlregeneral natrn~e oftbe indications e.g., 'Accession Number or Deposit') For receiving Office use only ForInternational Bureau use only This sheet wasreceivedwiththeinternationalapplication ~  ThissheetwasreceivedbytheInternationalBureauon:      Authorized officer Authorized officer 't~. "~,n Form PCT/RO/134 (July 1992) BN54EP MVA promoters,ST25 SEQUENCE LISTING <110> Bavarian Nordic A/S <120> Promoters for Expression in Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <130> BN54PCT <150> DI< PA200301730 <151> 2003-11-24 <150> EP04000943.3 <151> 2004-01-17 <160> 12 <170> Patentln version 3.2 <210> 1 <211> 171 <212> DNA <213> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 1 tctgcaatat tgttatcgta attggaaaaa tagtgttcga gtgagttgga ttatgtgagt 60 attggattgt atattttatt ttatatttta tattttgtag taagaataga atgctaatgt 120 caagtttatt ccaatagatg tcttattaaa aaacatatat aataaataac a 171 <210> Z <211> 105 <212> DNA <213> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 2 gataaaaatt taaagtgtaa atataactat tattttatag ttgtaataaa aagggaaatt 60 tgattgtata ctttcggttc tttaaaagaa actgacttga taaaa 105 <210> 3 <211> 136 <Z12> DNA <Z13> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 3 gcatttcatc tttctccaat actaattcaa attgttaaat aaataatgga tagtataaat 60 agttattagt gataaaatag taaaaataat tattagaata agagtgtagt atcatagata 120 actctcttct ataaaa 136 <210> 4 <211> 98 <212> DNA <213> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 4 gatctataaa ggtagaccta atcgtctcgg atgaccatat atttattttc agttttatta 60 tacgcataaa tagtaaaaaa tatgttaggt ttacaaaa 98 <210> 5 <211> 160 BN54EP MVA promoters.STZ5 <Z1Z> DNA <Z13> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 5 ggtaaacttt aagacatgtg tgttatacta agatggttgg cttattccat agtagcttgt 60 ggaatttata aacttatgat agtaaaacta gtacccaata tgtaaagatg aaaaagtaaa 120 ttactattaa cgccgtcggt attcgttcat ccattcagtt 160 <Z10> 6 <211> 156 <21Z> DNA <Z13> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 6 atttctcggt agcacatcaa atgatgttac cacttttctt agcatgctt a acttgactaa 60 atattcataa ctaattttta ttaatgatac aaaaacgaaa taaaactgca tattatacac 120 tggttaacgc ccttataggc tctaaccatt ttcaag 156 <210> 7 <211> 31 <Z1Z> DNA <213> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 7 tcttattaaa aaacatatat aataaataac a 31 <Z10> 8 <Z11> 30 <Z1Z> DNA <213> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 8 gataaaaatt taaagtgtaa atataactat 30 <210> 9 <211> 37 <Z1Z> DNA <Z13> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 9 agagtgtagt atcatagata actctcttct ataaaat 37 <Z10> 10 <211> 30 <Z1Z> DNA <Z13> modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 10 attgttaaat aaataatgga tagtataaat 30 <Z10> 11 <Z11> Z7 <212> DNA <213> Modified vaccinia virus Ankara <400> 11 agtaaaaaat atgttaggtt tacaaaa Z7 Page Z     BN54EP MVA promoters.ST25 <210> 1z <211> 31 <212> DNA <213> Modified vaccinia Virus Ankara <400> 12 atttattttc agttttatta tacgcataaa t 31 Applicant's or agent's file g[~J 54 PCT IntemationalapplicationNo. referencenwnber (PCT Rule l3bas) A. The indications madebelowrelatetothemicroorganismreferredtointhedescription onpage ~Z ,line ~~ , B. )mENTIF'ICATIONOFDEPOSIT         Further deposits are identified on an additional sheet Nameofdepositaryinstitution public Health Laboratory Services Centre for Applied Microbiology & Research Address of depositary institution (including postal code arad country) Porton Down Salisbury, SP4 OJG                 United Kingdom Dateofdeposit                 AccessionNumber January 27, 1994              94012707 C. ADDITIONAL INDICATIONS (leave blank if not applicable) This information is continued on an additional sheet In respect of all designated States to which such action is possible and to the extent that it is legally permissable under the law of the designated State, it is requested that a sample of the deposited microorganism be made available only by the issue thereof to an independent expert, in accordance with the relevant patent legislation.      E.g., EPC Rule 28 (4); UK           Patent Rules 'I 995, Schedule 2, Paragraph 3; Australian Regulation 3.25(3); Danish Patents Act Sections 22 and 33(3) and generally similar provisions mutatis mutandis for any other designated State;                  D. DESIGNATED STATES FOR WHICH   INDICATIONS ARE MADE (ifthe indications are notforall designated States) E. SEPARATE FURNISHING OFINDICATIONS(/eaveblankifnotapplicable) The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (spec fi~ the general nature ofthe indications eg., 'Accession Number of Deposit') For receiving Office use only ForInternational Bureau use only This sheetwasreceivedwiththeinternationalapplication ~ This sheet was received by the International Bureau on:    Authorizedofficern ~ ~ Authorized officer 1~S . ~C1~'~      Form PCT/RO/134 (July 1992) O     N a --s v i ,~ w ~c~ ,~ c~ a, o .o o "' ,'"'' '.~      U Nv O ° ~ ~ r" ..c _ ~ 5 r''~- _ '~.' v o ~ Ct ~.., ~L      O --.1 a q G     BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL      RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROOACrIL~.t'~      FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE      INTERNATIONAL FORM      T0~ ~ RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT      PrOf Dr Dr h.C. mult issued pursuant to Rule ?.1 by the An tOn May r INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHv RITY identified at the bottom of th is page Bockmeyrstrasse 9 80992 Munchen German AME AND ADDRESS      OF DEPOSITOR      I. IDENTIFICATION OF THE MICAOORCANISM     Identification reference givenAccession number give n by the by the DEPOSITOR:                   INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY:     Vacciniavirus Strain MVA     V94012707 II. SCIE21TIFIC DESCRIPTION    AND/OR PROPOSED TAXONOMIC          DESIGNATION                       The microorganism identified under I above was accompanied by:        a scientific description U a proposed taxonomic designation (Hark with a cross where applicable) III_ RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE       This International Depositary Authgrity accepts the microorganism identified under I above, which vas received by it on  (date of the original deposit)L ~7~~/94 IV. RECEIPT OF REQUEST FOR         CONVERSION                        The microorganism identified under I above Was received by this International Depositary Authority on      (date of the original deposit) and a request to convert the original deposit to a deposit under the Budapest Treaty was received by it on  (date of receipt of request for conversion) V. INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY        AUTHORITY                         Dr A. Doyle Name: ~                      signatures) of persons) having the power to cepresent the Inter rnational Depositary ECACC, CAMR                  Authority o~ authorized official(s):     Porton Down                  ~ ~u UR                           Date: ~Sth.      Address:                     V OJG,                         4 Salisbury, SP                4 L Where Rule 6.4(d) appliesr such date is the date on which the status of international depositary authority tras acquired. .' Form BP/4 (sole page) ~ IlUDAfC:S'f 'TREATY ON 't'IIL IN'I'FRNr1'fL(7PIA1.     HE:C:OGNTfLUN Of Tltt: DEfOSLT OF htICIt~JOIt<IAtdl:~ht:~ t'OR 'flit: ~fURI'OSES pIv PATI:hTT LI?;~CI:I1l7R1':     LN'I'ERNA1'IOivAL E'OR.~. ~TO tProf Dr Dr h.c. molt Anton Ma r Bockmeyrstrasse 9 VIABILITY STATEMENT 80992 Munchen issued pursuant to Rule i0.2 by the INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY      Germany identified on the following page PIAME AND ADDRESS OF THE PARTY     TO WHOM THE VIABILITY STATEMENT     IS ISSUED -I. DEPOSITOR                   II. IDENTIFICATIONTHE htICROORCANISh:      OF                    t4ame: PrOf Dr Dr h.C.              Accession number by the molt                  given Antpn Mayr                          INTERNATIONAL    R1 AUTHORITY:      DEPOSIT~.             Address: Bockmeyrstrasse 80992 Munchen                       Date of the depositof the transfer: or Germany     27th f anuary TII. VIABILITY STATEMENT                          The viability of the microorganismidentified under II above was tested on 27th January 1994      2. On that                 said microorganism date,                      was the viable no longer viable 1 Indicate the date of the oriqinal deposit or, where a new deposit or a transfer has been made, the most recent relevant date (date of the new deposit or date of the transfer). In the cases referred to in Rule 10.2(a)tii) and (iii), refer to the most recent viability tc~t.     Mark with a cross the applicable box.     Form BP/9 (first page) n i IV. CONDITIONS UNDER c~llilCli THE VIADIL.TTY 2'ES'f fIAS DEEN PERFOTtMED      V. INTEF.NATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTfiORITY      Name: D r A. Doyle signa.ture(s) of persons) having the power to represent the International Depositary Authority or of authorized official(s):      Address: ECACC ' _ CAMR ~ 'r'~      Porton Down Date: 2gth J n ,~ 4 Salisbury, SP4 OJG, UK. 4 Fill in if the information has been requested a n d if the results of the test were negative.      Form BP/9 (second and Last page) Applicant's or agent's file g[~J 54 PCT IntemationalapplicationNo. referencemunber INDICATIONS RELATING TO A DEPOSTTED MICROORGANISM (PCT Rttle l3bis) A. The indications madebelowrelatetotliemicroorganismreferredtointhedescripdon onpage ~ ~, , line ~/~              B. 1DENTiF'ICATIONOFDEPOSIT     ~  Furtherdepositsareidentifiedonanadditionalsheet Nameofdepositaryinstitutin ECACC ~                                   European Collection of Cell Cultures Address of depositary institution (including postnl code and country) Centre far Applied Microbiology & Research , Salisbury Wiltshire SP4 OJG ' United Kingdom Date ofdeposit                 AccessionNumber December 7, 2000               00120707 C. ADDITIONALINDICATIONS(leaveblanlcifnotapplicable) Thisinfoxmationiscontinuedonanadditionalsheet In respect of all designated States to which such action is possible and to the extent that it is legally permissable under the law of the designated State, it is requested that a sample of the deposited microorganism be made available only by the issue thereof to an independent expert, in accordance with the relevant patent legislation. E.g., EPC Rule 28 (4); UK Patent Rules 1995, Schedule 2, Paragraph 3; Australian Regulation 3.25(3); Danish Patents Act Sections 22 and 33(3) and generally similar provisions mutatis mutandis for any other designated State;                   D. DESIGNATED STATES FOR WHICH     INDICATIONS ARE MADE (ifthe indications are not forall designated States) E. SEPARATE FURNISHING OFINDICATIONS(lenveblar:leifnotapplicable) The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (specythegeneral natnreoftheindicafior>seg.,'Accession Number of Deposit') For receiving Office use only For International Bureau use only This sheet was received with theintemationalapplication ~ This sheet wasreceivedbythelntemationalBureauon:      Authorized officer ''1 /~ ~ ~ Authorized officer '~. ~~      Form PCT/RO/134 (July 1 'FL;:: .~.-: '. ~' Y:...~.,.4.. _ w~w~r~ "~'~' ':'. r~'.,~.l..i::.y =1 ~; :.~~'..'jf~:°.t.'I~.~.~...1 ' . . '; '~... ''::":' ',..' ~ E. il. -.. rt:~ centre fior Applied Noicrobiolog~ and ~.e~earch European Collection of ~erl ~uitures This document certifies that Virus (Deposit Ref.1100~ 2070T) has been accepted as a patent deposit, in accordance with The Budapest Treaty of ~ 97~, with the European Collection of Gell Cultures on 7TH December 2000 .. .;. i 1 i' ' Dr P J Packer . . . . . .      Quality Manager, ECACC Em"~psan Generti~e of ~e!1 r~lt,mes. C~n:9R, salishmy, tnlilr~[,"rP ~pn n;,lr [y r"".'.~"~.°''.""v~~a~ .. ~ A.. rn, .,oon ca~c~a Gn,r~ dd Ifl1 1qRf1 F;11'~15 Fmail: ecCCCLa,~csmr.W g;n 1~JC~ Slte: CCaCC.O;~.U~h BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF-MICROORGANISMS      FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATfNT PROCEDURE      TO      INTERNATIONAL FOtLM      EAVAAIAN NORDIC RESEARCH      INSTITUTE GMBH      FRAUNHOFERSTftASSE 1BB     NAME AND ADDRESS      OF DEPOSITOR      I. IDENTIFICATION OF THE MICROORGANISM fication reference given by the Accession number given by the TOR: INTERNATTONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY: ..dA-575 V001207D7 IT. 5CIENTTFIC DESCRIPTION AlQD/OR PROPOSED TAXONOMIC DESIGNATION      The microorganism identified under I above was accompanied by:      A scientific description A proposed taxonomic designation (Mark with a cross where applicable) III. RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE        s Internatienal Depository    ts the microorganism identified under Authority accep               I above, _ ich was received by it on   (date of the original depos it)' 7T" December 2000 IV. RECEIPT OF REQUEST FOA          CONVERSTON                         The microorganism identified under I above was received by this International Depository Authority on       (date of the original deposit) and A request to convert the originala deposit under the Budapest Treaty deposit to was received by it on         (date of receipt of request fox= conversion) IV. INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITORY        AUTHORITY                   Name: Dr P J Packer           Sigttature(s) of persons) having the power to represent the Intern ational Depository Authority or ofauthori =ed officials(s):     Address: ECACC                     CAMR                       : ; .<" : - r , Porton Down                   Date: ? ~ .f . .     Salisbury SP9 OJG                  1 Where Rule 6.4fd) applies, such date is the date on which the status of international depositary authority was acquired -m 9P19 isole page) 1992 Paqe 24 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL     RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT~OF MICROORGANISMS     FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE INTERNATIONAL FORM     TO     BAVARIAN NORDIC RESEARCH VIABILITY STATEMENT     INSTITUTE GMDH Issued pursant to Rule 10.2 by the FRAUNHOFERSTR45SE 18B INTE'thIATTONA1~ DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY     D-82152 MARTINSRIED identified on the following page GEP,MANY      NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE PARTY     TO WHOM THE VIABILITY OF STATEMENT     IS ISSUED       I             II. IDENTTFICATION OF THE MICROORGANISM     I.                 DEPOSITOR                                   Name:                  Accession number given by the BAVARIAN               NORDIC                                   RESEARCH                   INSTITUTE                                   GMBH                       INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITORY AUTHORITY:     oolao7o7 Address:                                   FRAUNHOFERSTRASSE              D-82152       Date of the deposit or of the transfer:     MARTINSRIED                 GERMANY                              7T" December 2000 II.                                     VIABILITY                                   STATEMENT                                   The      above was tested viability of the microorganism identified under II                                      on             On that date, the said microorganism 2.     was ' viable no longer viable 1 Indicate the date of the original deposit or, where a new deposit or a transfer has been made, the most relevant date (date of the new deposit or date of the transfer),. 2 In the cases referred to in Rule 10.2 (a) (ii) and (iii), refer to the most recent viability test. 3 Mazk with a cross the applicable box.     Form BP/4 (first page) Appendix 3 IV. CONDITTONS UNDER WHICH THE         VIABILITY TEST HAS BEEN PERFORMED     GELLS TCIDso = 106~s V. INTER13ATIOt3AL DEPOSITARY          AUTHORITY                             Name: Dr P J Packer ECACC CAMR                       having the power Signatuxe(s) of persons) to represent: the International Depositazy Address: POrt:oil Dowi1   Authority or of authorized offieial(s):     Salisbury HIil~shire ;1 0 , ~     .      Date: r'~' ~ ~ _,:?~,ol cva 4 Fill in if the information has been requested and if the .results of the test were negative.      Form BP/9 (second and last page) ~erti~ica~e of Analysis Product Description MVA-575 Accession Number 00120707 Test Description: Determination ofTCIDSO of cytopathic Virus titration. (SOP  ECACCl055) Cell Acceptance Criterion/Specification/Criteria: Negative controls should show no sign of Cytopathic, effects. The Test Sample is serially diluted into in 4 wells of indicator cell lines for each dilution. Cytopathic effects indicate that virus is present. Virus titre is calculated using the below equation where x is the value obtained from a standard TCIDSO Table as a result of the distribution of the wells displaying less than 4 positive wells per dilution, and y is the value of the highest dilution where aII 4 wells are positive:      TCIDso = I x I O'+"                    Y                   Date: 19/0I/O1 Result: Indicator Cell Line;      BHK 21 CLONE     Negative Control:                 NO CPE     Test Sample:                      CPE     Distribution of less that 4 positive4, 4, 0 wel Is:                                X:              0.50 Y;                                I 0 5 TCID;o = 1 x 10~ +o.so = 106.s Overall Result: Virus Present Test Description: The Detection of Mycoplasma by Isolation on Mycoplasma Pig Serum Agar and in Mycoplasma PIorse Serum Broth.      SOP QC/MYC~/OI/02 Acceptance Criterion/SpeciEcation: All positive controls (M. pneumoniae & M.  orale) must show evidence of rnycoplasma by typical colony formation on agar plates.  Broths are subcuitured onto Mycoplasma Pig Serum Agar where evidence of mycoplasma by typicai colony formation is evaluated. All negative control agar plates must show no evidence of microbial growth. The criteria for a positive test result is evidence of mycoplasma by typical colony formation on agar. A negative result will show no such evidence.      Test Number: 2 i 702 Date: 12/02/01 Result: Positive Control: Positive Negative Control: Negative , Test Result; Negative Overall Result: PASS 'a--- ,' 7 Authorised by.......t~:??%~:~~-,..:.........,.........ECACC, Head of Quality..  ~~~~: ~...., Date Page 1 of 1 Certifical:e of Analysis Product Description MVA-575 Accession l~iumber 00120707 Test Description: Detection ofMy coplasma using a Vero indicator cell line and Hoechst 33258 fluorescent detection system.   Acceptance CriterionlSpecification: The Vero cells in the negative control are clearly seen as fluorescing nuclei with no cytoplasmic Fluorescence. Positive control (rtsl.  orale) must show evidence of mycoplasma as fluorescing nuclei plus extra nuclear fluorescence of mycoplasma DNA. Positive test results appear as extra nuclear fluorescence of mycoplasma DNA. Negative results show no cytoplasmic fluorescence.      Test Number: 21702 Date: 12102101 Result:      Positive Control: Positive Negative Control: Negative Test Result: Negative Overall Result: PASS Test Description: Detection of bacteria and fungi by isolation on Tryptone Soya Broth (TSB) and in Fluid Thioglycollate Medium (FTGM). SOP QCBF/01/02 Acceptance Criterion/Specification: All positive controls (Bacillis subtilus, Clostridium sporogeraes and Candida al6icans~ show evidence of microbial growth (turbidity) and the negative controls show no evidence ofmicrobial growth (clear). The criteria for a positive test is turbidity in any of the test broths. All broths should be clear for negative test result.      Test Number: 21702 Date: 12102101 Result:      Positive Control: Positive Negative Control: Negative Test Result: Negative Overall Result: PASS ~~/~~:~; ; Authorised by................................,.......ECACC, Head of Quality...,.. .:........ Date Page 2 of 4 ECACC use only Accession No: ~rr..~~~ ~uro~n Coilectiori of Celt Cu~ur~ Depositors Code: -~'~teh~ .I~e~p~~it~eeession .F'or~n - V'iru~      DEl'OS1TOR II4FORMATI ON      Name ofDapositorlCompony/Institute Bavarian Nordic Research Institute Gm fN$ Ibis will be the r<arrse Ihat appears ore cerfifccaHon) conta~t'Name Dr. Paul Nowley, Dr. Pe-tra Pielken _ DcpositorAddrcss Fraunhoferstraf~e 18b, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany -89 8565 0030 FaxTIo ++49 89 8565 1333 HIOiiA2ARD STATEMENT MUST HB diNCLO5ED The deposit is made fn accordance with the ierms of the Budapest Treaty l9??.  I agree to abide by the canditionr and regxtlafions regardii deposit of cell lines to theECACC, Signature _~.~ ~ _ i°,~i.;~' :_ Data' r~ '-~. ( ) 2 r:~C'~!r~      Address to which invaica should be sent (if different from above) Accounts Department, Bavarian Nordic Research Institute GmbH      Fraunhoferstraf~e 18b -D-v~us mf~axMATZOrr ~ -Namc in full .      AbbrcviatadNatna MBA pdcntificationonAmpoules S~ . No . 575 - Serological Typc Normal Host N o n a ' Virus Titre Deposited V7RCIS fROPA.GA,Ti;ON lIoat cells (first choice) ~ ' Aiumativa Host Cefis Details of HostCell Growth (media, temperature, seeding density, growth factors ate) , _Chicl~en Embryo Fibroblast Cultured in RPMI Media Supplornented with 10% FCS.      AT 37°C 5%6C02. o r th F I Details of V.'uus Growth (cg conflucncy of~host cells, oo-cultivation, moi, effects, time iakcn) Infect CEF Cell At N ar °     YzRUS~TORA.GE Confluency; Infection Tirnes on Averaas 3 Days At 37°C/5%C02 Material starad (eg supcmatant, iu~cctcd call axtraat, vinbie infected cells ate) Tomparatureandconditions Infected Cell Extract, At-80°C      YiRTJS ASSAY      Method (enclose-ifnccessaty) Does not form Pla ues. It forms F ci f P      LITERATUREREFhRENCES (:fang) TCID50 Method - Reference:      Inno Drexler et al. 2000 .in Methods in Molecular Medicine Uo1 35; ANY OTI3ER RLLEY.4:1''I' INFOR~I~iATTON Gene Therapy : Methods a nd Protocol s . Ed .      W. ~lalther and U . Stein . Wuman Press ~,da;'s Researeb.      Tumurrow's Heahh Virus Louses Viability At I mNr nhinl~(~p l/iriic n;th Sterile IMM Tris-Hcl pH9 Buffer 'al Europt:au Gollection of Gell Cultures, Centre for Applied Microbiology &  Research ' Salisbur Wiltshire SP4 OJG, UK.: ' ' Y, , s Tel; -h~~ 1980 61518 Fcr~: +ø~: 1880 6i i31 h ~.~Ylail: ecacc@camr.org.uk Web~~itc: ts~r~u:ca:nr.org.uk no,FS~aa~s ECACC use only Accession No:      European Coll~cii~n of Cep Cu'~ures Depositors Code;      B.~or~.~z~.~..~ sz~~ ~.~.~E.~~ (To be included with all deposits) Deposit category Cell Gulture o Plant Culture ~ Yirus Recombinant DNA ~ DNAProbe ~ $actcoa Does the above deposit represent an infectious, toxic or allergenic hazard?  Yes ~ Nn If yes, please give details and any associated hazard oategory (eg. ACDP  category) and fax to ECACC PRIOR to shipment of ells.      MVA is classified into biosafetv level ~1 (S1) by ZKBS      F' Date; Nlay 1997 Does the above deposit: contain geneticallyYcs ~    'hlo  r~ manipulated material?              If yes, please enclose a general description and answer the following:                                 is the material .           DNA ~    RNA   LJ     b. is the material present iQ a host  Yas ~    No organism?                                                 c, is the genetic material readily    Yes ~    No transferred to environmental organisms?~              d. is the genetic material likely to  Yes ~    No be expressed. as proteinT                                 e. what is the category of this raaterinl under ACGM regulations? ie, i. coutninment Level iL. GMO type ?ior any posit'we responses to questions b-d glease give details Please supply any farther details which would be relevant to assassing the safe handling conditions for materials to be deposited at ECAGC.      Signed 1? . ~ ~ , !- y . ,,.~ . ~ Date ' C ~ ~-' if -.J ; -i . ~ .      Print name Dr. Petra Pielken Please note that deposits which are, or evntatn, animal pathogens require an import licence into the EC. Please allow 8 weeks for this prow submit informaJton requested byECrlCCf~r licence applications as qutekly ers possible. 'll>day's Research 'lbmorrow's Health European C:olleckion of Cell Cultures, Centre for Applied 114icrohiol.ogy ~:  Research ' ~ mw Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 OdC, T1K, Tel; +.i.~~ i980 6l~hll fax: +~~ 1930 611315 f.~Iai~ ecacc@eamr.org.uk ykeb Site: ~r~,wcamr.org.uk n'c.~s3~919 Applicant's or agent's file InternationalapplicationNo. referencentunber BN 54 PCT      INDICATIONS RELATING TO A DEPOSTTED MICROORGANISiVl~ (PCT Rule l3bis) A, The indicationsmadebelowrelatetothemicroorganismreferredtointhedescription onpage ~ ~ , line 1' B. iDENTIFTCATIONOFDEPOSTT Further deposits are identified on an additional sheet Nameofdepositaryinstitution ECACC                               European Collection of Cell Cultures Address of depositary institution (including postal code and country) Centre for Applied Microbiology & Research Salisbury Wiltshire SP4 OJG                   United Kingdom Date of deposit                AccessionNumber August 30, 2000                00083008 C. ADDITIONAL INDICATIONS (leave blank if not applicable) This information is continued on anadditional sheet fn respect of all designated States to which such action is possible and to the extent that it is legally permissable under the law of the designated State, it is requested that a sample of the deposited microorganism be made available only by the issue thereof to an independent expert, in accordance with the relevant patent legislation.      E.g., EPC Rule 28 (4); UK Patent Rules 1995, Schedule 2, Paragraph 3; Australian Regulation 3.25(3); Danish Patents Act Sections 22 and 33(3) and generally similar provisions mutatis mutandis for any other designated State;                   D, DES1GNATEDSTATESFORWHICHINDICATIONSAREMADE(iftheindicationsarenotforalldesignat edStates) E. SEPARATE FURNISHING OFINDICATIONS(Ieaveblankifnotapplicab/e) The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (sped th'egene~al nature ofthe imlicationseg., 'Accession Num6er of Deposit') For receiving Office use only ForInternationalBureauuseonly This sheet was received with the international application ~ This sheet wasreceivedbythelnternationalBureauon:      Authorized officer Authorized officer ,i :,~;re,"~      Form PCTlRO/134 (July 1992) ~er~tre for /~.pplie~ Niicrobdo~og~ a~~ Re~earoh .. & ~~ropean ~o-Ileot~or~ of held C~ltr~re~      This document certifies that Virus (Deposit Ref. V00083008) has been accepted as a patent deposit, in accordance with The Budapest Treaty of 1977, with the European Coiiection of Cell Cuitures on 30~" August 2000 _ _ Dr P.J Packer ~ ~ . ~ . .      Quality Manager, ECACC  European Coiiection of Cell Cultures, CAMR, Salisbury, Wiltshire 6P4 OJG u14. ~mn"~, u..~~,n.i, r~~~~"~",~w,u"~n,, Tel: 4A f01 1986 612572 Fax: 44 (dl 1980 611315 Email:  ecacc@samr.org.uk Web Site: ecacc.org.uk !'°~!      Euro~an Collection J~~~-~ c~f Ceif Cultures i Form BPl9 ifirst page) Appendix 3 IV. CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH              THE VIABIL=TY TEST HAS BEEN             PERFORMED                              VIABILITY OF MVA-BN WAS TESTED          BY GROWING THE VIRUS ON BHK             CELLS AND CALCULATING THE           TCD50.                                 V. INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY             AUTHORITY                              Name: Dr P J Packer ECACC CAMIt                       signatures) of persons) having the power to represent the International Depositary Address: POrtori Dowri            Authority or of authorized official(s):     Salisbury Wiltshire SP4 OJG                           Date: ~     4 Fill in if the information has been requested and if the results of the test were negative.     BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL      RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS      FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEpURE      INTERNATIONAL FORM      TO      BAVARIAN NORDIC RESEARCH VIABILITY STATEMENT      INSTITUTE GMBH Issued pursant to Rule 10.2 by the D-82152 MARTINSRIED identified on the following page GERMANY      NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE PARTY' TO WHOM THE~VIAHILITY OF STATEMENT      IS ISSUED      I. DEPOSITOR II. IDENTIFICATION OF TAE MICROOPGANISM      Name: BAVARIAN NORDIC RESEARCH Accession number given by the 2NSTITUTE GMBH INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITORY AUTHORITY:        Address: FRAUNHOFERSTRASSE 18B      D-82152 MARTINSRIED Date o~ the deposit oz of tile transfer:      GERMANY 305n August 2000 II. VIABILITY STATEMENT      The viability of the microorganism identified under II above was tested on ~. On that date, the said microorganism was ~' 3 viable ' I no longer viable I 1 Indicate the date of the original deposit or, where a new deposit or a transfer has been made, the most relevant; date (date of the new deposit or date of the trangfer). 2 In the cases referred to in Rule 10.2 tai iii) and (iii), refer to the most recent viability test. 3 Mark with a cross the applicable box.     BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL      RECOGNITION OF THE'DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS      FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PRDCEDU.°,E      TO INTERNATIONAL FORM -BAVARIAN NDRDIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE GMHH     GERMANY      NAME AND ADDRESS      OF DEPOSITOR      IDENTIFICATION OF THE MICROORGANISM      Identification reference given by the Accession number given by the DEPOSITOR: INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY: rwe-rsn                      vuuuduuua II. SCIENTIFIC DESCRIPTION   TAXONOMIC DESIGNATION      ANDIOR PROPOSED                   The microorganism identified under I above Was accomganied by;                               A scientific description A proposed taxonomic designation (Mark with a cross where applicable) III. RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE       ~                            id Phi                  tifi I                            d t        th ti                           i l D                          i i                      d A                            I th         b it                           t ~                            a s                        sm n                            en erna        e ona                          un tory                         er epos                       ove, u                            e m or          croorgan y accep                      s ,~.rhiCh was received by it {date of the oziginal deposit)1 on 30T August 2000 IV. RECEIPT OF REQUEST FOR         CONVERSION                        The microorganism identified under I above was received by this International Depository Authority on      (date of the oziginal deposit) and A request to convert the originala deposit under the Budapest Treaty deposit to was received by it on        (date of receipt of request for conversion) IV. INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITORY       AUTHORITY                         Name: Dr P J Packer          Signatures) of persons) having the power to represent the International Depository Authority or of authorized officials(s):     Address: ECACC                    CAMR                             Porton Down                  Date: ~ ~GCC~ ~~ I i-1CZJ     Salisbury SP9 OJG            - _ -1 Where Rule 6.4(d) applies, such date is the date on which the status of international depositary authority was acquired Form BP/9 (sole page) 1991 certificate of .~.nalyszs Product 1)escripfiSort MVA-LN      Accession Number 00083008 Test DescripCion: The Detection of Mycoplasrna by Isolation on Mycoplasma Pig 5eturn Agar and in Mycoplasma Horse Serum Broth.      SOP QClMYC0101102 Acceptance Criterion/Specifcation; All positive controls (M. pneumontae cfc M.  orate) must show evidence ofmycoplasma by typical colony formation on agar plates.  Brorhs are subcuitured onto Mycoplasma Pig Serum Agar where evidence of tnycoptasma by typical colony formation is evaluated. All negative control agar plates must show no evidence of microbial growth. The ctitcria for a positive test result is evidence of rnycoptasma by typical colony formation on agar. A negative resale will show no such evidence.      Test Number: 21487 bate: 27111100 Result:      Positive Control: Positive Negative Control: Nesati~e '1 eat Result: Negative OVerali Result: PASS Test Description: Detection of Mycoplasma using a Vero indicator cell line and Hoechst 33258 fluorescent detection systern_ SOP QCIMYCOIO'7/0~ Acceptance Criterivnl5pecificatioa: The Vero cells in the negative control are clearly seen as fluorescing nuclei with no cytoplastnic fiuorescance, Positive conUol (M.  orate) trust show evidence of tnycoplasma as fluorescing nuclei plus extra nuclear fluorescence of mycoplasma DNA. Positive test results appear as extra nuclear fluorescence of mycoplasma DNA. Negative results show no eyeoplasmic fluorescence.      Test hlumber: 21487 Date: 27111100 Result:      Positive Controh Positive Negative Control: Negative Test Result: Negative Overall Result: PASS Authorised hy.........~.~~.......,..,......ECACC, Head of Quality"...k.~.!~~.  bate rage z or z iCex~~~cate ~~'.~.~.alys~s Product Description 1VIYA-YiN' ,Accession Number bOb83bOS Test Description: Detection of bacteria and fungi by isolation on Tryptonc 6oya l3mth (T5H) and in Fluid Thioglyoollate Medium (FTCrM). SOP QClHFl01102 Acaeptsnce Criferionl5peeiftcallon: All positive controls (Bueillis subrilus, Clostridium sporogenes and Candlda albteans) show evidence c~f microbial growth (turbidity) and the negative controls show no evidence ofmicrobial growth (clear)_ 'The criteria for a positive trzst is turbidiry in any of the test troths. All troths should be clear for negative test result.      Test Number: 2148'7 Aate: 27111100 Result:                    Positive Control:     Positive Negative Control:     Negative ')rest result:        Negative Overall Result:       PASS     Test Description Determination of TCIDso of cytopathic Virus titration. (SOP  ECACC/O55) CeII Acceptance CriterianlSpecificatianlCriteria: Negative controls should slsaw no sigt of Cytopathic effects. The Test Sample is serially diluted into in 4 wells of indicator cell lines for each dilution. Cytopathic effects indicate that virus is present, Virus titre is calculated using the below equation where x is the value obtained from a standard TCIDSO Table as a result of the distribution of the wells displaying less than 4 positive wvelis per dilution, and y is the value of the highest dilution where all 4 wells are positive:      TCID~o = t X lfl"'x Y      Date: O l h aloo Result:      Indicator Cell Line: BHK21 (Clone 13) Negative Control: ~ IVO CPE      Test Sample: CPE      Distribution of less that ~ positive wells: 4, 4, 4, 3, 0 X: I.25 Y: I ~-' TCID$p = 1 x I O' +o~.zs I Q'7 - 10~'s OvCrall Result: Vii,L; Present n o erci icate Authorised by......... ~~ ... ..", ",... .,.......ECACC', ~Teac! of c,~ualtry.....~tlc?.l~ .. Date Page 2 a~ Z     ECACC use only Accession N'o:      O'~ ~P~~ ~l.l~Llf~S Dcpositozs Code: .~'a~ent ~e~o~s~~ A ccessio~t .corm - virus 7)El'OSITOR ?NFORMATIOiV      NsmeoFDcpositorlCompanyllnstitute Bavarian Nardic Research Institute GmbH (.~ this will be iha name that appears on certlfrcatton) Costa°ttlama ' Dr, Paul M. Howley Depositor Address Tdhto '~-~4~ 89 8565 0030 g~Ho -!-+49 89. 8565 1.333 BiOLiAZARb STATEME2~'T M3ST BE;3NCLOSED . The depostt Is made in accardanee wtlh the terms of the Budapest Treaty 197 I  agree to abide by the conditions acrd regulatioru regarding deposit of cell lines to the ~'CrICC.      Signature ~ ~ ~. ~ ~( ~ ~ Date o~~ _ ~ . ,Zta c~C?      Address to which invoice should be scat (if different from above) Accaunts De artment Bavarian Nord' D-8 52 Martinsried German v~vs trr~ox~rAxznrt 7~Iamc in fait ~ ~,ot~~,fia V~,>i ' AlsbrcvlatedName MVA-BN ~ Identification on Ampoules ~..c~ ~ ~~u~'~ strata ~ s~e~~e- 3 . 32 ; 5t : ,'x s' ~ g ~ ~ $ S      TIorrnaiAost bane - T"'t' 'T $ _": 6, Yrus Titre Deposited ~ I ~      VIkUS ~ItOPAGA.TION . ' . .     Hostcelis (first choice) Alternative Host Cells Details of Host Cell Growth (media, temperature, seeding density, growth factors etc) ~ , Chicken Embryo Fibroblast Cultured~in RPMI Media Su lt:mented with 10% FCS.      AT 37°C 5 2. Details o~V'uvs Growth (eg eonfluency o~host cells, co-cultivation, root, effects, tuns taken) Infect CEF a vzltUSSTORAG$ Confluency; Infection Times on Average 3 days At 37°C/5%C02 Motorist stored (og supernatant; infected cell extraot, viable iafected calls otc) Tempcraturoandcoaditions ~ Infected Gel1 Extz'act At-$0°C vTRUS ASSAY      Method (enclose if necessary) Does not form Plagues Tt forms Fore of f.PF ; n CFA M~nalaTers 1' itira.t:e_ ~~--LIT>3RA,TTJREREFEREi'ICES(ifany) TCID50 Method - Reference: Vol 35: .... . ... _ _ _ .--,r-. A.vYOTHBRRieL~vANT'iNFOR.yta.TioN Gene Therapy: Methods and Pxotocol .s Ed.  W.~pd~~~~ L~' and U. Stein. Human Press morrow's Health Virus looses Viability At Low pN. Dilute Virus With Sterile MM Tris--Hc1 H9 Buffer ~ ~ ' European Collection of Cull Cultures, Centre for Applied Microbic:logy &  Research ' Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 OJG. LiK. - x Tel: -h.~4 L980 61°~5i~ W -l-ø~ 1980 61131a L,r'ffazl.~ eeacc@catnz:org.uk tY'eb~~ite.: lscweamr.org.uk tro.xstaats ECACC use only Accession No;      DePos;turs Code: .~hD~~'A.c'~ STA l.~'MEN~' (I'v be included svilh all depvsltsJ      Aepasit csaegory ' CeIICuIturo a . PlantCultvre ~ vrusRecombinantDNA a DNAProbe Q g~~ria Does the above dcpositrepresent an infectious, toxic orallcrgenic hazardT Yes ~ No If yes, glcase give details and any associated hazard category (eg. ACDP  category) and fax to ECACC PRIOR to shipment o~ cells.      Does the above deposit contain geneticallyYes~    No    ! x .t rnaaipulated material? ,     ~               If yes, please enclose a general description and answer the following:                   m is the material '     pNA1---1RNA        b_ ~ is the material present in a   yes~    v .    kost organism? . ,                          No c. is the genetic mnterinl readily  Yes~    No transfcrreaito enviroranental organisms?   ' d, is the genetic material likely   Yes~    , .    to be expressed as protein?~    .    .           No c, what is the category ofthis material under AGGM regulations?                                ie, i_ containment level ii. GMO type                                      ' For any positive responses to questions b-d please give details Please supply any further details which would be relevant to asso~ing the cafe handling conditions for materials to be deposited at ECACC n nd nimals ... m.. i Sv.v~. :~'~~.~,~~~. ~ ,n h.,°i~'~'' .  Signed ~~ .,.°.:'...'y~(- , p j ' ,'o.~,:i_.:. " . 1?ato ~ ~v. ~~.  ~.Ot,'a.'~      Print name Dr. Petra Pielken Please note Ihat deposhr svhfc6 are, or evnlaJn, antrnal pathogens require an import licence fnio the.EC, Pleasa allow 8 rseeksfor this pre submit info»nalJon requesfed by.EC.4CCfor licence opplicaftons as qatd;Iy asposatble. ~~l7day'o~~t European Collection of Cell Cultures, Centre for:tpplied Microbiology &  Research , Salisbury, Wiltshire SPA OJG, UK, a""'", 'lal.~ +~~ 1,980 61'~0l°~ Frr~; -f-~~ i980 6f 1315 d:.rltail~ ecacc@caun:org.uk Web Site: ~srn~s:camr.org.uk Na.tsa3ats  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
