
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  VACCINE ANTIGENS FROM PISCIRICKETTSIA SALMONIS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION  Field of Invention:  The present invention relates to novel proteins from Piscirickettsia salmonis. The present invention also pertains to the nucleic acids that encode these proteins. The present invention further relates to a process of preparing a vaccine against salmonid rickettsia! septicemia (SRS) using the proteins as antigens, or the nucleic acids in bacterial hosts to express such antigens.  The present invention also relates to bacterins and viral antigens that can be combined to form a vaccine against SRS. The present invention also pertains to vaccines for preventing SRS, as well as preventing other bacterial and/or viral infections in fish. Background:  Salmonid rickettsial septicemia (SRS), also known as piscirickettsiosis, is a fatal disease in salmonids. Although the etiological agent for SRS was identified in the late 1980's as Piscirickettsia salmonis, antibiotics proved to be an unsuccessful treatment, due, at least in part, to the intracellular nature of this bacterium [Bravo and Campos, FHS/AFS News!. 17:3 (1989); U.K. Patent Application 2 356 632]. As a consequence of the lack of a viable treatment, millions of farmed salmon die of SRS each year just in southern Chile alone [Smith etal., Dis. Aquat. Organ. 37(3):165-172 (1999)]. In addition, recent reports demonstrate a link between Piscirickettsia-like bacteria and disease syndromes in non-salmonid fish [see, Mauel and Miller, Veterin. Microbiol. 87(4):279-289 (2002)].  
 2 The Salmonidae family (salmonids) includes salmon, trout, char, and whitefish. Salmonids serve both as a food source and as a game fish. Moreover, in countries such as Chile, Norway, Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and the United States, salmonids have become an important commercial product due, at least in part, to the ability of fish farmers to artificially spawn, incubate and raise the salmonids in captivity. Unlike fish originating in the wild, those raised in captivity are amenable to prophylactic treatments such as vaccination. So far, several potential vaccines have been described, such as one based on a specific Piscirickettsia salmonis antigen, a 17 kDa lipoprotein OspA [U.K. Patent Application 2 356 632; see also WO 01/68865 A2]. Additional potential vaccines against Piscirickettsia salmonis are described by W005035558 A2 and W02006037383 Al. These published international patent applications describe an isolated Piscirickettsia salmonis Psp45 protein and antigenic fragments thereof, as well as other SRS antigens. The coding sequence for sp45 protein is contained by a recombinant Chilean strain of Yersinia ruckeri that has been deposited (BCCM accession No.    [MG P-22044). The nucleotide coding sequence of the Psp45 protein within the deposited recombinant Yersinia ruckeri is included within SEQ ID NO: 16. The amino acid sequence of the Psp45 protein within the deposited recombinant Yersinia ruckeri is SEQ ID NO: 7 [the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8 is identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 7, except SEQ ID NO: 8 lacks the sequence for the signal peptide.] In addition to Piscirickettsia salmonis, other pathogens are known to cause disease in farmed fish, including salmon. One such pathogen is the Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis virus (IPN virus), which is an unenveloped, icosahedral, bisegmented dsRNA virus. The IPN virus contains one main structural protein, VP2 (52 kDa) and three additional proteins, VP1 (90 kDa), VP3 (30 kDa) and VP4 (28 kDa). VP2 is the main protein of the outer capsid and is therefore immunologically important in recognition and bonding of the virus. VP1 is thought to be a polymerase, whereas VP3 and VP4 are internal proteins. VP4 is believed to correspond to a form of VP3 fragment formed during viral differentiation [see,  
 3 WO 02/38770 Al]. Nucleotide and amino acid sequences for VP2 and VP3 have been determined [see, Havarstein etal., J. Gen.Virol. 71:299-308 (1990); Pryde et al., Archives of Vir. 129:287-293 (1992)]. There, therefore remains a need to provide new safe and effective vaccines against Piscirickettsia salmonis. In addition, there remains a need to identify new antigens from Piscirickettsia salmonis that can be used in such vaccines.  Furthermore, there is a need to obtain nucleic acids that encode such antigens. In addition, there is a need to provide methods of vaccinating fish to protect them from Piscirickettsia salmonis and Piscirickettsia-like bacteria. Furthermore, there is a need to provide vaccines that can protect fish against Piscirickettsia salmonis and other unrelated pathogens, particularly those of commercial importance, such as the IPN virus. The citation of any reference herein should not be construed as an admission that such reference is available as "prior art" to the instant application. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION  The present invention provides isolated, recombinant, or both isolated and recombinant proteins from Piscirickettsia salmonis, as well as antigenic fragments thereof. One such protein is Ps pi90, a 90kDa protein (ORF1), as described below.  Another 90kDa protein is 'p290, (ORF 2) as described below. Ps pi90 and Ps p290 can be expressed from any suitable nucleic acid that encodes one or both of them, respectively, e.g., either DNA or RNA. In addition, Ps p190 or Psp290 can be used as antigens in vaccines against SRS, either alone, or in combination with each other and/or other antigens. The present invention further provides nucleic acids that encode the isolated and/or recombinant proteins from Piscirickettsia salmonis and/or antigenic fragments of the proteins. Furthermore, the present invention provides nucleotide probes and PCR primers that can be used, e.g., to identify such nucleic acids that encode these proteins. In addition, the present invention provides recombinant vectors that encode the Piscirickettsia salmonis proteins of the present invention, or fragments thereof, such as recombinant viruses and bacteria. Corresponding  
 4 attenuated or killed recombinant bacteria, e.g., bacterins prepared from the recombant bacterial vectors are also provided. The present invention further provides vaccines that comprise Piscirickettsia salmonis proteins of the present invention and/or antigenic fragments of these antigens. These antigens may be placed into a vaccine in any number of forms including as a recombinant protein itself, and/or as a recombinant protein expressed by a recombinant vector such as a recombinant gram negative bacterium, or as a naked DNA. In a particular embodiment of the present invention, the recombinant gram negative bacterium is a recombinant E. coli cell. Preferably the recipient of a vaccine of the present invention receives protection from Piscirickettsia salmonis. In one embodiment, the vaccine comprises recombinant E.coli that encode and express the Psp190 and/or p290 proteins and/or antigenic fragments of the pi90 and/or p290 protein. In a particular embodiment of this type, such recombinant E.coli are inactivated prior to being added to the vaccine and/or prior to the administration of the vaccine to the animal subject. In addition, booster vaccines are also provided by the present invention. Antibodies that bind to the Piscirickettsia salmonis proteins of the present invention are also provided. Such antibodies can be used: to demonstrate the presence of, identify, and/or purify the proteins of the present invention. Accordingly, the present invention provides a Psp190 protein that comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 60% identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In a particular embodiment of this type the Psp190 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 75% identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In another embodiment of this type the Psp190 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 90%  identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In still another embodiment of this type the Psp190 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 95% identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In yet another embodiment of this type the pi90 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 2 that comprises one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. In still another embodiment the Psp190 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 2 that comprises one to ten amino acid substitutions. In a particular embodiment of this type the Psp190 protein comprises an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 that comprises one to ten conservative amino acid substitutions. In a specific embodiment, the Psp190 protein comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID  NO: 2. In another embodiment, the Psp190 protein consists essentially of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. P. salmonis variants of the Psp190 protein that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 are also included as part of the present invention. Preferably, all of the Psp190 proteins of the present invention bind to an antibody elicited by the Psp190 protein that has the amino acid sequence of SEQ  ID NO: 2. More preferably, when a Psp190 protein of the present invention is included as an antigen in a vaccine administered to salmonids, the vaccine provides protection against SRS to the vaccinated salmonids. The present invention also provides a sp290 protein that comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 60% identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In a particular embodiment of this type the p290 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 75% identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In another embodiment of this type the    p290 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 90% identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In still another embodiment of this type the p290 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least 95% identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In yet another embodiment of this type the p290 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 4 that comprises one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. In still another embodiment the p290 protein comprises an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 4 that comprises one to ten amino acid substitutions. In a particular embodiment of this type the p290 protein comprises an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 that comprises one to ten conservative amino acid substitutions. In a specific embodiment, the p290 protein comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID     NO: 4. In another embodiment, the p290 protein consists essentially of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. P. salmonis variants of the p290 protein that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 are also included as part of the present invention. Preferably, all of the p290 proteins of the present invention bind to an antibody elicited by the p290 protein that has the amino acid sequence of SEQ  ID NO: 4. More preferably, when a sp290 protein of the present invention is included as an antigen in a vaccine administered to salmonids, the vaccine provides protection against SRS to the vaccinated salmonids. The present invention also provides antigenic fragments of all of the P.  salmonis proteins of the present invention. In a particular embodiment, the antigenic fragment is of the pi90 protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In another particular embodiment, the antigenic fragment is of the Psp290 protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. The antigenic fragments of the present invention can be in any form including but not limited to:  isolated, recombinant, chemically synthesized, both recombinant and isolated, or both chemically synthesized and isolated. The present invention further provides chimeric polypeptides that comprise a Psp190 protein of the present invention or antigenic fragment thereof, and/or a Psp290 protein of the present invention or antigenic fragment thereof. In one such embodiment, the chimeric polypeptide comprises the Psp190 protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In an alternative embodiment, the chimeric polypeptide comprises the p290 protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In another embodiment, the chimeric polypeptide comprises an antigenic fragment of a Pspi90 protein of the present invention that has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In still another embodiment, the chimeric polypeptide comprises an antigenic fragment of the p290 protein that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. The chimeric polypeptides of the present invention can be in any form including but not limited to:  isolated, recombinant, chemically synthesized, both recombinant and isolated, or both chemically synthesized and isolated.     The present invention further provides antibodies elicited by the pi90 or Psp290 proteins of the present invention, including those elicited by a chimeric polypeptide of the present invention. In one embodiment, the antibody is solicited by the Psp190 protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In an alternative embodiment, the antibody is solicited by the p290 protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. The present invention also provides antibodies solicited by an antigenic fragment of a Pspi90 and/or a Psp290 protein of the present invention. In one such embodiment, the antibody is solicited by an antigenic fragment of a Psp190 protein of the present invention having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In another embodiment, the antibody is solicited by an antigenic fragment of the Psp290 protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In another aspect of the present invention, nucleic acids are provided which encode: the Psp190 proteins, the Psp290 proteins, the antigenic fragments of these Psp190 proteins and/or Psp290 proteins, and/or the corresponding chimeric polypeptides of the present invention. Any of these nucleic acids can further comprise heterologous nucleotide sequences. The nucleic acids of the present invention can be in any form including but not limited to: isolated, recombinant, chemically synthesized, both recombinant and isolated, or both chemically synthesized and isolated. In a particular embodiment, a nucleic acid of the present invention encodes a Psp190 protein that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In a particular embodiment of this type the nucleic acid comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. In an alternative embodiment the nucleic acid comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5. In another embodiment, a nucleic acid of the present invention encodes a Psp290 protein that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In a particular embodiment of this type the nucleic acid comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. In another embodiment the nucleic acid comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6. The present invention also provides nucleic acids (e.g., DNA molecules) of 18 nucleotides or more that hybridize under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. In a particular embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises 120 nucleotides or more and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. In another embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises 300 nucleotides or more and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. In still another embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises 900 nucleotides or more and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. In yet another embodiment the nucleic acid comprises between 2000 to 3000 nucleotides and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. In a related embodiment, the DNA molecule encodes a Pspi90 protein and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ  ID NO: 1. The present invention also provides nucleic acids (e.g., DNA molecules) of 18 nucleotides or more that hybridize under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. In a particular embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises 120 nucleotides or more and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. In another embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises 300 nucleotides or more and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. In still another embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises 900 nucleotides or more and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. In yet another embodiment the nucleic acid comprises between 1500 to 2600 nucleotides and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. In a related embodiment, the DNA molecule encodes a sp290 protein and hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ  ID NO: 3. The present invention also provides vectors that comprise one or more of the nucleic acids of the present invention. In one embodiment of this type, the vector is an expression vector. Preferably the nucleic acids of the present invention are operatively linked to a transcriptional control sequence in the expression vectors. The expression vectors of the present invention can be used to express one or more Psp190 proteins, Psp290 proteins, antigenic fragments of the Psp190 proteins and/or Psp290 proteins, and/or corresponding chimeric polypeptides.  In one such embodiment, the expression vector is a plasmid that can function in E.  co/i. In a particular embodiment, the expression vector is the EGT1 plasmid.  In one such embodiment, the expression vector is an EGT1 plasmid that expresses Psp190 that has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, and which has the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5690. In an alternative embodiment, the expression vector is an EGT1 plasmid that expresses Psp290 that has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4, and which has the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5691. The present invention further provides host cells that comprise the vectors of the present invention. In a particular embodiment, the host cell expresses one or more Psp190 proteins, Psp290 proteins, antigenic fragments of the Psp190 proteins and/or p290 proteins, and/or corresponding chimeric polypeptides. In one embodiment the host cell comprises a plasmid that expresses Psp190 that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In a particular embodiment of this type, the plasmid is an EGT1 plasmid that has the BOOM accession No.  LMBP 5690. In another embodiment the host cell comprises a plasmid that expresses p290 that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In a particular embodiment of this type, the plasmid is an EGT1 plasmid that has the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5691. Preferably, the host cell is an E. coli cell. The present invention also provides methods for expressing and/or producing a one or more Psp190 proteins, p290 proteins, antigenic fragments of the Psp190 proteins and/or Psp290 proteins, and/or corresponding chimeric polypeptides. One such embodiment is culturing a host cell of the present invention in a culture medium. In a particular embodiment, the method further comprises isolating the Psp190 protein(s), p290 protein(s), antigenic fragment(s) of the Psp190 protein(s) and/or p290 protein(s), and/or corresponding chimeric polypeptide(s). In one such embodiment, the host cell is an E. co/icell. In a particular embodiment the host cell comprises a EGT1 plasmid that expresses Psp190 that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In a particular embodiment of this type, the plasmid is an EGT1 plasmid that has the BOOM  accession No. LMBP 5690. In another embodiment the host cell comprises a EGT1 plasmid that expresses Psp290 that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. In a particular embodiment of this type, the plasmid is an EGT1 plasmid that has the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5691. In another aspect of the present invention, immunogenic compositions are provided comprising the proteins, and/or antigenic fragments, and/or recombinant host cells, and/or bacterins of the present invention. In a preferred embodiment of this type, an immunogenic composition of the present invention is a vaccine.  Accordingly, the vaccines of the present invention can comprise any of the immunogenic compositions of the present invention. Preferred vaccines protect fish against SRS, either alone or in multivalent vaccines that may also protect against other pathogens. In a related embodiment, a vaccine is a naked DNA  vaccine that comprises a recombinant DNA vector that comprises an antigen of the present invention or an antigenic fragment thereof. Immunogenic compositions of the present invention comprise antigenically effective amounts of a Psp190 protein of the present invention and/or of an antigenic fragment thereof; and/or an antigenically effective amount of a sp290 protein of the present invention and/or of an antigenic fragment thereof;  and/or antigenically effective amounts of a mixture of a Psp190 protein of the present invention and/or of an antigenic fragment thereof and/or a sp290 protein of the present invention and/or of an antigenic fragment thereof. In a particular embodiment, the immunogenic composition comprises a bacterin that comprises the plasmid having the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5690.  In another embodiment the immunogenic composition comprises a bacterin that comprises the plasmid having the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5691. In still another embodiment, the the immunogenic composition comprises both a bacterin that comprises the plasmid having the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5690 and a bacterin that comprises the plasmid having the BOOM accession No. LMBP 5691.     The vaccines of the present invention can further include an adjuvant.  Various adjuvants may be used to increase the immunological response, depending on the host species, including but not limited to Freund's (complete and incomplete), mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide, surface active substances such as lysolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions, peptides, oil emulsions, keyhole limpet hemocyanins, and dinitrophenol. A vaccine and/or immunogenic composition of the present invention can further comprise one or more additional P. salmonis proteins or an antigenic fragment thereof. In one such embodiment the P. salmonis protein is the Ps45 protein. In a particular embodiment of this type, the Ps45 protein can comprise the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8. In another embodiment, the vaccine and/or immunogenic composition can further comprise a bacterin comprised of aYersinia ruckeri cell having the BOOM accession No. of LMG P-22044. In another embodiment, the bacterin is aYersinia ruckeri cell BOOM accession No.  LMG P-22511. In still another vaccine and/or immunogenic composition a bacterin comprising both the Yersinia ruckeri cell having the BOOM accession No.  of LMG P-22044 and aYersinia ruckeri cell BOOM accession No. LMG P-22511 is included. In another embodiment, a vaccine of the present invention further comprises one or more antigens obtained from an Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis (IPN) virus. These recombinant proteins are preferably expressed by transformed yeast, Pichia pastoris. In one such embodiment, the antigen obtained from the IPN virus is the VP2 var protein or antigenic fragment thereof. In another embodiment the antigen obtained from the IPN virus is the VP3 protein or antigenic fragment thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the vaccine comprises both the VP2 var protein or antigenic fragment thereof and the VP3 protein or antigenic fragment thereof. In one embodiment, an antigen is the portion of the VP2 var protein obtained from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell, BOOM Accession No. IFIEM  20069. In another embodiment of this type, an antigen is the portion of the var protein obtained from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell, BOOM Accession No. IFIEM 20070. In still another embodiment, an antigen is the portion of the protein obtained from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell, BOOM Accession No.    HEM 20071. In yet another embodiment, an antigen is the portion of the VP3 protein obtained from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell, BOOM Accession No.    HEM 20072. In a particular embodiment the vaccine comprises antigens from transformed Pichia pastoris cells, BOOM Accession No. HEM 20069 and BOOM  Accession No. HEM 20071. In another embodiment the vaccine comprises antigens from transformed Pichia pastoris cells. BOOM Accession No. HEM  20070, and BOOM Accession No. HEM 20072. In still another embodiment a vaccine of the present invention comprises one or more antigens obtained from Aeromonas salmonicida. In a particular embodiment, the Aeromonas salmonicida comprising the antigens is prepared from a culture grown under iron-depleted conditions. In another embodiment, the Aeromonas salmonicida comprising the antigens is prepared from a culture grown under iron-supplemented conditions. In a preferred embodiment, two sets of Aeromonas salmonicida antigens are employed in the vaccine, one set from a culture grown under iron-depleted conditions the other set from a culture grown under iron-supplemented conditions. In a particular embodiment, a multivalent vaccine comprises antigens from Piscirickettsia salmonis, IPN, and Aeromonas salmonicida. The present invention also provides methods of protecting a fish from salmonid rickettsial septicemia (SRS), or SRS along with one or more other pathogenic disease(s) through the vaccination of the fish with a vaccine of the present invention. In a particular embodiment the other disease is Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis. In another embodiment the other disease is furunculosis.  In still another embodiment the method of protecting the fish includes protecting against SRS, Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis, and furunculosis (caused by Aeromonas salmonicida). The vaccines of the present invention can be administered by any method.  In one embodiment a vaccine of the present invention is administered by immersion. In another embodiment a vaccine of the present invention is administered by injection. In yet another embodiment a vaccine of the present invention is administered by oral administration.     In addition, related booster vaccines are also provided by the present invention. The administration of a given booster vaccine is preferably performed through oral administration. Any fish may be the recipient of the vaccines of the present invention.  Examples of recipient fish are listed below. In a particular embodiment, the fish is a teleost. In a preferred embodiment, the telost is a salmonid. In a more preferred embodiment the salmonid is a salmon. In one such embodiment the salmon is a Salmo salar (Atlantic salmon). In another embodiment the salmon is an Oncorhynchus kisutch (coho salmon). In yet another embodiment the salmonid is an Oncorhynchus mykiss (rainbow trout). Accordingly, it is a principal object of the present invention to provide a vaccine that protects salmon ids against SRS. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a vaccine that protects fish from salmonid rickettsial septicemia (SRS) and Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis (IPN). It is a further object of the present invention to provide an effective way to protect against assorted fish infections by providing a multivalent vaccine. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a protocol that can lead to the successful vaccination of fish in captivity. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a DNA construct that encodes the Pspi90 protein or variant thereof. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a DNA construct that encodes the Psp290 protein or variant thereof. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, or an antigenic fragment thereof. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4, or an antigenic fragment thereof. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a recombinant subunit vaccine against SRS. It is a further object of the present invention to provide inactivated recombinant bacterial vectors encoding specific antigens to be used in vaccines against SRS.     These and other aspects of the present invention will be better appreciated by reference to the following drawings and Detailed Description. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS  Figure 1 illustrates the cumulative percent mortality in different test groups of fish after vaccination. The curves show the results of the saline controls denoted by diamonds, the adjuvant controls denoted by squares, the 90 kDa ORF 1 [Psp190]  vaccine denoted by triangles, and the 90 kDa ORF 2 [p290] vaccine denoted by DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION  The present invention provides safe and effective vaccines to protect fish against Piscirickettsia salmonis infections. In addition, the present invention provides methods of vaccinating fish to protect them from Piscirickettsia salmonis and Piscirickettsia-like bacteria. Moreover, the present invention provides vaccines that can protect vaccinated fish from Piscirickettsia salmonis and other unrelated pathogens, such as the IPN virus. Methods of making the vaccines of the present invention are also provided. The vaccines of the present invention (including booster vaccines) can be administered to fish by a number of means including by immersion, by injection, and/or through oral administration. Notably, US Published Patent Application No. US20070207165 (Al) and W02006037383(A1) specifically teach the use a recombinant Yersinia ruckeri vector to express P. salmonis proteins, and indeed, exemplify the successful use of Yersinia ruckeri to express the Psp45 protein. However, after considerable time and effort, Yersinia ruckeri proved to be an inappropriate host cell for expressing either pi90 or p290 due both to instability, and the inability to demonstrate expression of these proteins. Surprisingly, and contrary to the earlier teachings of US20070207165 (Al) and W02006037383(Al ), E.coli cells proved to be the preferred recombinant host cell to express either pi90 or p290.     Accordingly, in a particular aspect of the present invention the Ps pi90 and Ps P290 proteins are expressed in recombinant E. coli host cells containing pEGT1 plasmids. Two corresponding recombinant E. coli HMS174(DE3)/pEGT1 plasmids encoding these proteins were deposited with the: Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCM) under the terms of the Budapest Treaty and represented by: BCCM/LMBP Department of Molecular Biology Ghent University Fiers-Schell-Van Mantagu Building Technologiepark 927 B-9052 Zwijnaarde The International Depository Authority: Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCMTm) Laboratorium voor Molecula ire Biologie-Plasmidencollectie (LMBP) Universiteit Gent Technologiepark 927 B-9052 Gent-Zwijnaarde, Belgium Both plasmid deposits were all made on October 19, 2007. =    Psp190 =    E. coli HMS174(DE3)/pEGT1/AL-ORF1-90kDa =    BCCM accession No. LMBP 5690 =    Psp290 =    E. coil HMS174(DE3)/pEGT1/AL-ORF2-90kDa =    BCCM accession No. LMBP 5691 The present invention also provides vaccines against SRS that further comprise and/or encode one or more additional P. salmonis antigens. Such additional antigens include those described by US Published Patent Application No. US20070207165 (Al) and those described by W02006037383(Al ).  These antigens include isolated P. salmonis Psp45 protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7 (complete Psp45 protein) or SEQ ID NO: 8 (Psp45 protein without the signal sequence) and antigenic fragments thereof. Additional antigens described by U520070207165 (Al) and W02006037383(A1), see also Table 14 below, include those comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9 (which shows homology with a protein family coding for AMP-binding enzymes), SEQ ID NO: 10 (which shows no homology to any protein family), SEQ ID NO: 11 (which shows no homology to any protein family), SEQ ID NO: 12 (which shows homology to the DDE  endonuclease family and in particular to the integrase core domain), SEQ ID  NO: 13 (which shows homology to transposases), SEQ ID NO: 14 (which shows some homology to the HlyD family of secretory proteins), and/or SEQ ID NO: 15 (which shows homology to the intergral membrane AcrB/AcrD/ AcrB protein family). These antigens can be expressed e.g., by nucleic acids that encode one or more of these amino acid sequences. As indicated above, Psp45 protein can be produced by recombinant Yersinia ruckeri cells deposited with the Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms ("BCCM") located at: BCCM Laboratorium voor Microbiologie ¨ Bacterienverzameling (LMG) Universiteit Gent, K.L. Ledeganckstraat 35, B-9000 Gent, Belgium =    Strain Name: Yersinia ruckeri 224/pGEM5ZF+/45kDa/S =    BCCM accession No. LMG P-22044, deposited on September 11, 2003. =    Strain Name: Yersinia ruckeri 224/pGEM5ZF+/75kDa =    BCCM accession No. .LMG P-22511, deposited on May 27, 2004. The present invention also provides combination vaccines against SRS  and IPN (SRS/IPN vaccines) that comprise one or more inventive P. salmonis 90kDa antigens (e.g., Pspi90 and/or Psp290) optionally in combination with any of the Psp45 proteins or SRS antigens noted above, in combination with one or more antigens obtained from an Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis (IPN) virus. These recombinant proteins (IPN antigens) are preferably expressed by transformed yeast, Pichia pastoris. In one such embodiment, the antigen obtained from the IPN virus is the VP2 var protein or an antigenic fragment thereof. In a particular embodiment, the antigen is the VP2 var protein obtained from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell, BOOM Accession No. HEM 20069 and/or from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell, BOOM Accession No. HEM 20070. In another embodiment, the antigen obtained from the IPN virus is the VP3 protein or an antigenic fragment thereof. In a particular embodiment of this type, the antigen is the VP3 protein obtained from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell, BOOM Accession No. HEM 20071 and/or from the transformed Pichia pastoris cell BOOM Accession No. HEM 20072. In one embodiment of the present invention, the inventive SRS/IPN vaccine comprises at least one VP2var antigen and one VP3 antigen. Four recombinant Pichia pastoris yeast cells were deposited with the following depository: BOOM Institut Scientifique de la Sante Publique ¨ Louis Pasteur (IHEM) Section mycologie J. Wytsmanstraat 14 Rue J. Wytsman B-1050 Brussels, Belgium These deposits were all made on September 11, 2003. =    Strain name : Pichia pastoris GS115 / pPICZaB / VP2var / MUT+ 46 =    BOOM Accession No. HEM 20069 =    Strain name : Pichia pastoris SMD1168 / pPICZaB / VP2 367.5 =    BOOM Accession No. HEM 20070 =    Strain name: Pichia pastoris KM71 / pPICZaB / VP3 / MUTs 30:11 =    BOOM Accession No.IHEM 20071 =    Strain name: Pichia pastoris G5115 / pPICZaB / VP3 112.15 =    BOOM Accession No. HEM 20072 As used herein the following terms shall have the definitions set out below: As used herein the term "Psp190" is used interchangably with the term "ORF1" and denotes a specific Piscirickettsia salmonis protein that is about 90kDa in molecular weight. In a particular embodiment, Psp1 90 comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, which is encoded by the P. salmonis nucleotide sequence SEQ ID NO: 1 and the nucleotide sequence SEQ ID NO: 5, which was optimized for E. coli codon usage. Pspi 90 is encoded by an EGT1 plasmid deposited with the BCCM-rmiLMBP  Collection having ascension number LMP 5690. As used herein the term "Psp290" is used interchangably with the term "ORF2" and denotes a specific Piscirickettsia salmonis protein that is about 90kDa in molecular weight. In a particular embodiment, p2 9O comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4, which is encoded by the P. salmonis nucleotide sequence SEQ ID NO: 3 and the nucleotide sequence SEQ ID NO: 6, which was optimized for E. coli codon usage. Psp2 90 is encoded by an EGT1 plasmid deposited with the BCCM-rmiLMBP  Collection having ascension number LMP 5691. As used herein the term "polypeptide" is used interchangeably with the term "protein" and is further meant to encompass peptides. Therefore, as used herein, a polypeptide is a polymer of two or more amino acids joined together by peptide linkages. Preferably, a polypeptide is a polymer comprising twenty or more amino acid residues joined together by peptide linkages, whereas a peptide comprises two to twenty amino acid residues joined together by peptide linkages. As used herein a polypeptide "consisting essentially of" or that "consists essentially of" a specified amino acid sequence is a polypeptide that (i) retains an important characteristic of the polypeptide comprising that amino acid sequence, e.g., the antigen icity of at least one epitope of the inventive 90kDa protein(s), and (ii) further comprises the identical amino acid sequence(s), except it consists of plus or minus 10% (or a lower percentage), and preferably plus or minus 5% (or a lower percentage) of the amino acid residues. In a particular embodiment, additional amino acid residues included as part of the polypeptide are part of a linked Tag, such as a C-terminal His6 Tag. A molecule is "antigenic" when it is capable of specifically interacting with an antigen recognition molecule of the immune system, such as an immunoglobulin (antibody) or T cell antigen receptor. An antigenic polypeptide (and/or fragment of the polypeptide) contains at least 6, and preferably at least 12 or more amino acid residues. An antigenic portion of a molecule can be that portion that is immunodominant for recognition by an antibody or a T cell receptor, and/or it can be a portion used to generate an antibody to the molecule by conjugating an immunogenic portion of the antigen to a carrier molecule for immunization. A molecule that is antigenic need not be itself immunogenic, i.e., capable of eliciting an immune response without a carrier. As used herein the term "antigenic fragment" of a particular protein is a fragment of that protein that is antigenic. For example, an antigenic fragment of a Psp190 protein or a Psp290 protein can be any antigenic fragment of the pi90 protein or Psp290 protein respectively, including large fragments that are missing as little as a single amino acid from the full-length protein. In a particular embodiment, an antigenic fragment of the Psp190 protein or a Psp290 protein contains between 12 and 800 amino acid residues. In another embodiment, an antigenic fragment of the Psp190 protein or a Psp290 protein contains between and 250 amino acid residues. In yet another embodiment, an antigenic fragment of a Psp190 protein or a Psp290 protein contains 100 amino acid residues or more, but fewer than 600 amino acid residues. In still another embodiment, an antigenic fragment of a Pspi90 protein or a sp290 protein contains 250 amino acid residues or more, but fewer than 600 amino acid residues. In yet another embodiment, an antigenic fragment of a Pspi90 protein or a sp290 protein contains 400 amino acid residues or more, but fewer than 600 amino acid residues. An antigenic fragment of a given pi90 protein or a Psp290 protein can be obtained from a recombinant source, from a protein isolated from natural sources, or through chemical synthesis. Similarly, an antigenic fragment can be obtained following the proteolytic digestion of such Psp190 proteins, p290 proteins or fragments of either. Alternatively, an antigenic fragment of the present invention can be generated by recombinant expression, or alternatively, through peptide synthesis. As used herein, a multivalent vaccine is a vaccine that comprises two or more different antigens. In a particular embodiment of this type, the multivalent vaccine stimulates the immune system of the recipient against two or more different pathogens. Specific multivalent vaccines are exemplified below. As used herein the term "chimeric protein" is used interchangeably with the terms "chimeric polypeptide" and "chimeric peptide" and is meant to include fusion proteins, polypeptides, and peptides. A "chimeric protein" comprising a Psp190 and/or Psp290 protein of the present invention comprises at least a portion of a particular protein (e.g., Pspi90) joined via a peptide bond to at least a portion of a different protein (e.g., a non- Psp190 protein). A chimeric protein of the present invention also can comprise two or more different proteins and/or portions thereof, including a chimeric Pspi9O-Psp290 protein. Chimeric proteins of the present invention also can have additional structural, regulatory, and/or catalytic properties. As used herein a chimeric protein can contain multiple additions to at least a portion of a given protein, e.g., a chimeric protein can comprise both a His6Tag and an alternative signal sequence. In a particular embodiment, a non-Psp190 (or non- Psp290) portion of the chimeric protein functions as a means of detecting and/or isolating the chimeric protein or fragment thereof after a recombinant nucleotide encoding the given protein or antigenic fragment thereof is expressed. Non- Psp190 (or non- Psp290) protein amino acid sequences are generally, but not always, either amino- or carboxy-terminal to the protein sequence. As used herein one amino acid sequence is 100% "identical" to a second amino acid sequence when the amino acid residues of both sequences are identical. Accordingly, an amino acid sequence is 50% "identical" to a second amino acid sequence when 50% of the amino acid residues of the two amino acid sequences are identical. The sequence comparison is performed over a contiguous block of amino acid residues comprised by a given protein, e.g., a protein, or a portion of the polypeptide being compared. In a particular embodiment, selected deletions or insertions that could otherwise alter the correspondence between the two amino acid sequences are taken into account. As used herein, DNA and protein sequence percent identity can be determined using C, MacVector (MacVector, Inc. Cary, NC 27519), Vector NTI  (Informax, Inc. MD), Oxford Molecular Group PLC (1996) and the Clustal W     algorithm with the alignment default parameters, and default parameters for identity. These commercially available programs can also be used to determine sequence similarity using the same or analogous default parameters.  Alternatively, an Advanced Blast search under the default filter conditions can be used, e.g., using the GCG (Genetics Computer Group, Program Manual for the GCG Package, Version 7, Madison, Wisconsin) pileup program using the default parameters. As used herein a "nucleic acid" refers to the phosphate ester polymeric form of ribonucleosides (adenosine, guanosine, uridine or cytidine; "RNA  molecules") or deoxyribonucleosides (deoxyadenosine, deoxyguanosine, deoxythymidine, or deoxycytidine; "DNA molecules"), or any phosphoester analogs thereof, such as phosphorothioates and thioesters, in either single stranded form, or a double-stranded helix. Double stranded DNA-DNA, DNA-RNA  and RNA-RNA helices are possible. When referring to a nucleic acid that is double stranded both the "sense" strand and the complementary "antisense"  strand are intended to be included. Thus a nucleic acid that is hybridizable to SEQ ID NOs: 1 or 3, for example, can be either hybridizable to the "sense"  strand of the respective sequence, or to the "antisense" strand which can be readily determined from the respective sense strands listed in the Sequence Listing provided herein. The individual components of a nucleic acid are referred to as nucleotides. A DNA "coding sequence" is a double-stranded DNA sequence that is transcribed and translated into a polypeptide in a cell in vitro or in vivo when placed under the control of appropriate regulatory sequences. The boundaries of the coding sequence are determined by a start codon at the 5' (amino) terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3' (carboxyl) terminus. A nucleotide coding sequence can include, but is not limited to, prokaryotic sequences, cDNA from eukaryotic mRNA, genomic DNA sequences from eukaryotic (e.g., mammalian) DNA, and even synthetic DNA sequences. If the coding sequence is intended for expression in a eukaryotic cell, a polyadenylation signal and transcription termination sequence will usually be located 3' to the coding sequence.     Transcriptional and translational control sequences are DNA regulatory sequences, such as promoters, enhancers, terminators, and the like, that provide for the expression of a coding sequence in a host cell. In eukaryotic cells, polyadenylation signals are control sequences. A "promoter sequence" is a DNA regulatory region capable of binding RNA  polymerase in a cell and initiating transcription of a downstream (3' direction) coding sequence. For purposes of defining the present invention, the promoter sequence is bounded at its 3' terminus by the transcription initiation site and extends upstream (5' direction) to include the minimum number of bases or elements necessary to initiate transcription at levels detectable above background. Within the promoter sequence will be found a transcription initiation site (conveniently defined for example, by mapping with nuclease Si), as well as protein binding domains (consensus sequences) responsible for the binding of RNA polymerase. A coding sequence is "under the control" of transcriptional and translational control sequences in a cell when RNA polymerase transcribes the coding sequence into mRNA, which can then be trans-RNA spliced, if, when, and where appropriate, and translated into the protein encoded by the coding sequence. A nucleotide sequence is "operatively linked" to an expression control sequence when the expression control sequence controls or regulates the transcription and translation of that nucleotide sequence. The term operatively linked includes having an appropriate start signal. A "heterologous nucleotide sequence" as used herein is a nucleotide sequence that is added by recombinant methods to a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide of the present invention or encoding a fragment thereof (i.e., an antigenic fragment), to form a nucleic acid that is not naturally formed in nature. Such nucleic acids can e.g., encode chimeric proteins. In addition, as used herein, a heterologous nucleotide sequence need not be a single contiguous nucleotide sequence, but can include multiple non-contiguous nucleotide sequences that have been combined with a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide of the present invention, or a portion thereof. A heterologous nucleotide sequence can comprise non-coding sequences including restriction sites, regulatory sites, promoters and the like. In still another embodiment the heterologous nucleotide can function as a means of detecting a nucleic acid of the present invention. The present invention provides heterologous nucleotide sequences that when combined with nucleotide sequences encoding a polypeptide of the invention or a fragment thereof, are necessary and sufficient to encode all of the chimeric proteins of the present invention. In a particular embodiment, the polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. As used herein, a bacterium is said to be "recombinant" when the nucleotide sequence of the DNA that it naturally contains has been purposely altered by at least one nucleotide addition, deletion, and/or modification through genetic engineering. A recombinant bacterin is an inactivated or killed recombinant bacterium. The phrase "binding to" or "binds to" in regard to a ligand binding to a polypeptide (e.g., antigen to an antibody) is used herein to include any or all such specific interactions that lead to a protein-ligand binding complex. This can include processes such as covalent, ionic (electrostatic and/or charged), hydrophobic and hydrogen bonding, but does not include non-specific associations such as solvent preferences. As used herein a "small organic molecule" is an organic compound [or organic compound complexed with an inorganic compound (e.g., metal)] that has a molecular weight of less than 3 kDa. As used herein the terms "approximately" and "about" are used to signify that a value is within twenty percent of the indicated value i.e., an amino acid sequence containing "approximately" 400 amino acid residues can contain between 320 and 480 amino acid residues. As used herein the unit "0 days" denotes the number of days of incubation following the vaccination of a fish, multiplied by the average temperature in C for that incubation.     Nucleic Acids Encoding the Polypeptides of the Present Invention A nucleic acid, such as a cDNA, that encodes a polypeptide of the present invention, can be placed into a vector, e.g., a recombinant bacterial host cell, to express a protein and/or antigen of the present invention, e.g., the Psp1 90 and Psp2 90 proteins. Such recombinant host cells can be inactivated, e.g., disrupted and converted to bacterins, and used in immunogenic compositions such as vaccines. In addition, obtaining and/or constructing a DNA that encodes one of the polypeptides of the present invention, including those encoding Psp1 90 and/or PsP2 90, or antigenic fragments thereof, facilitates the production of economically important quantities of the protein or antigenic fragments thereof. The large quantities of the proteins and/or antigenic fragments thereof produced are useful for making certain vaccines of the present invention. Accordingly, the present invention provides specific nucleotide constructs that allow for the expression and isolation of large quantities of the proteins and/or antigens of the present invention, such as the Psp1 90 and/or p2 9O proteins.  These nucleic acids can further contain heterologous nucleotide sequences. To express a recombinant protein of the present invention in a host cell, an expression vector can be constructed comprising the corresponding cDNA. The present invention therefore, provides expression vectors containing nucleic acids encoding the proteins of the present invention, including variants thereof. Due to the degeneracy of nucleotide coding sequences, other DNA  sequences which encode substantially the same amino acid sequence as a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide of the present invention may be used in the practice of the present invention. These include, but are not limited to, allelic genes, homologous genes from other strains, and/or those that are altered by the substitution of different codons that encode the same amino acid residue within the sequence, thus producing a silent change. Host cells comprising the expression vectors of the present invention are also provided. One particular host cell is an E. coli cell. General methods for the cloning of cDNAs and expression of their corresponding recombinant proteins have been described [see Sambrook and Russell, Molecular Cloning, A laboratory Manual, 3rd edition, Cold Spring Harbor =     Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor Li. (2000)]. The particular methodology used herein is described in the Examples below. Preferably, all of the nucleic acid constructs of the present invention are sequence confirmed. In addition, any technique for mutagenesis known in the art can be used to modify a native Ps pi 90 or Psp290 protein of the present invention, including but not limited to, in vitro site-directed mutagenesis [Hutchinson et aL, J. Biol.  Chem., 253:6551 (1978); Zoller and Smith, DNA, 3:479-488 (1984); Oliphant et al., Gene, 44:177 (1986); Hutchinson etal., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 83:710 (1986);    Wang and Malcolm, BioTechniques 26:680-682 (1999)]. The use of TAB@ linkers (Pharmacia), etc. and PCR techniques also can be employed for site directed mutagenesis [see Higuchi, "Using PCR to Engineer DNA", in PCR Technology:  Principles and Applications for DNA Amplification, H. Erlich, ed., Stockton Press, Chapter 6, pp. 61-70 (1989)]. The present invention also provides nucleic acids that hybridize to nucleic acids comprising the nucleotide sequences of the present invention. A nucleic acid is "hybridizable" to another nucleic acid, such as a cDNA, genomic DNA, or RNA, when a single stranded form of the nucleic acid can anneal to the other nucleic acid under the appropriate conditions of temperature and solution ionic strength [see Sambrook and Russell, Molecular Cloning, A laboratory Manual, 3rd edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor L.I. (2000)]. The conditions of temperature and ionic strength determine the "stringency"  of the hybridization. For preliminary screening for homologous nucleotides, low stringency hybridization conditions, corresponding to a Tm of 55'C, can be used, e.g., 5X saline sodium citrate (SSC), 0.1% sodium dodecyl sufate (SDS), 0.25%  milk, and no formamide; or 30% formamide, 5XSSC, 0.5% SDS. Moderate stringency hybridization conditions correspond to a higher Tm, e.g., 40% formamide, with 5X or 6XSSC. High stringency hybridization conditions correspond to the highest Tm, e.g., 50% formamide, 5X or 6XSSC. Hybridization requires that the two nucleic acids contain complementary sequences, although depending on the stringency of the hybridization, mismatches between bases are possible. The appropriate stringency for hybridizing nucleic acids depends on the length of the nucleic acids and the degree of complementation, variables well known in the art. The greater the degree of similarity or homology between two nucleotide sequences, the greater the value of Tm for hybrids of nucleotides having those sequences. The relative stability (corresponding to higher Tm) of nucleotide hybridizations decreases in the following order: RNA:RNA, DNA:RNA, DNA:DNA. For hybrids of greater than 100 nucleotides in length, equations for calculating Tm have been derived [see Sambrook and Russell, Molecular Cloning, A laboratory Manual, 3rd edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor L.I. (2000)]. For hybridization with shorter nucleic acids, i.e., oligonucleotides, the position of mismatches becomes more important, and the length of the oligonucleotide determines its specificity. Depending upon circumstances a suitable minimal length for a hybridizable nucleic acid can be at least about 12 nucleotides; or at least about 18 nucleotides;  or the length can be at least about 24 nucleotides; or at least about 36 nucleotides. Alternatively, the minimum length can be at least about 48 or at least about 72 nucleotides, or longer, as indicated above. In a specific embodiment, the term "standard hybridization conditions" refers to a Tm of 55 C, and utilizes conditions as set forth above. Under more stringent conditions, the Tm is 60 C, and under even more stringent conditions, the Tm is 65 C for both hybridization and wash conditions, respectively. Polypeptides of the Present Invention The present invention provides isolated and/or recombinant Piscirickettsia salmonis polypeptides, including all of the antigens of the present invention, e.g., the Psp1 90 and/or p2 9O proteins (plus or minus an amino-terminal signal peptide), P. salmonis strain variants thereof, antigenic fragments thereof, and chimeric proteins thereof. In addition, polypeptides containing altered sequences in which functionally equivalent amino acid residues are substituted for those within the wild type amino acid sequence resulting in a conservative amino acid substitution, are also provided by the present invention. For example, one or more of these amino acid residues within the sequence can be substituted by another amino acid of a similar polarity, which acts as a functional equivalent, resulting in a silent alteration. Substitutes for an amino acid within the sequence may be selected from other members of the class to which the amino acid belongs. For example, the nonpolar amino acids include alanine, leucine, isoleucine, valine, proline, phenylalanine, tryptophan and methionine. The polar neutral amino acids include glycine, serine, threonine, cysteine, tyrosine, asparagine, and glutamine. The positively charged (basic) amino acids include arginine and lysine.  The negatively charged (acidic) amino acids include aspartic acid and glutamic acid. Particularly preferred conserved amino acid exchanges are: (a) Lys for Arg or vice versa such that a positive charge may be maintained; (b) Glu for Asp or vice versa such that a negative charge may be maintained; (c) Ser for Thr or vice versa such that a free -OH can be maintained; (d) Gin for Asn or vice versa such that a free NH2can be maintained; and (e) Ile for Leu or for Val or vice versa as being roughly equivalent hydrophobic amino acids. All of the polypeptides of the present invention, including antigenic fragments, also can be part of a chimeric protein. In a specific embodiment, a chimeric polypeptide is expressed in a prokaryotic cell. Such a chimeric protein can be a fusion protein used to isolate a polypeptide of the present invention, through the use of an affinity column that is specific for a protein fused to the 'pi 90 and/or Psp290 proteins, for example. Examples of such fusion proteins include:  a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein, a maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusion protein, a FLAG-tagged fusion protein, or a poly-histidine-tagged fusion protein. Specific linker sequences such as a Ser-Gly linker can also be part of such a fusion protein. Indeed, the expression of one or more of the inventive proteins, as a fusion protein, can facilitate stable expression, and/or allow for purification based on the properties of the fusion partner. Thus the purification of the recombinant polypeptides of the present invention can be simplified through the use of fusion proteins having affinity Tags. For example, GST binds glutathione conjugated to a solid support matrix, MBP binds to a maltose matrix, and poly-histidine chelates to a Ni-chelation support matrix [see Hochuli etal., Biotechnology 6:1321-1325 (1998)]. The fusion protein can be eluted from the specific matrix with appropriate buffers, or by treating with a protease that is specific for a cleavage site that has been genetically engineered in between a Pspi 90 and/or p2 9O protein, for example, and its fusion partner. Alternatively, a Pspi 90 and/or Ps p2 90 protein can be combined with a marker protein such as green fluorescent protein [Waldo et aL, Nature Biotech. 17:691-695 (1999); U.S. Patent No. 5,625,048 and WO  97/26333]. Alternatively or in addition, other column chromatography steps (e.g., gel filtration, ion exchange, affinity chromatography etc.) can be used to purify the recombinant polypeptides of the present invention (see below). In many cases, such column chromatography steps employ high performance liquid chromatography or analogous methods in place of the more classical gravity-based procedures. In addition, the polypeptides of the present invention, including the P5p, 90 and/or p290Ps    proteins, and antigenic fragments thereof, can be chemically synthesized [see e.g., Synthetic Peptides: A User's Guide, W.H.Freeman & Co., New York, N.Y., pp. 382, Grant, ed. (1992)]. General Polypeptide Purification Procedures: Generally, initial steps for purifying a polypeptide of the present invention can include salting in or salting out, in ammonium sulfate fractionations;  solvent exclusion fractionations, e.g., an ethanol precipitation; detergent extractions to free membrane bound polypeptides, using such detergents as TRITON X- 100, TVVEEN-20 etc.; or high salt extractions. Solubilization of membrane proteins may also be achieved using aprotic solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide and hexamethylphosphoramide. In addition, high speed ultracentrifugation may be used either alone or in conjunction with other extraction techniques. Generally good secondary isolation or purification steps include solid phase absorption using calcium phosphate gel, hydroxyapatite, or solid phase binding.  Solid phase binding may be performed through ionic bonding, with either an anion exchanger, such as diethylaminoethyl (DEAE), or diethyl [2-hydroxypropyll aminoethyl (QAE) SEPHADEX or cellulose; or with a cation exchanger such as carboxymethyl (CM) or sulfopropyl (SP) SEPHADEX or cellulose. Alternative means of solid phase binding includes the exploitation of hydrophobic interactions e.g., the use of a solid support such as phenylSepharose and a high salt buffer;  affinity-binding immuno-binding, using e.g., a inventive protein bound to a suitable anti- 'pi 90 and/or anti-p2 90selective antibody, respectfully, bound to an activated support. Other solid phase supports include those that contain specific dyes or lectins etc. A further solid phase support technique that is often used at the end of the purification procedure relies on size exclusion, such as SEPHADEX and SEPHAROSE gels. Alternatively, a pressurized or centrifugal membrane technique, using size exclusion membrane filters may be employed. Oftentimes, these two methodologies are used in tandem. Solid phase support separations are generally performed batch-wise with low-speed centrifugation, or by column chromatography. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), including such related techniques as FPLC, is presently the most common means of performing liquid chromatography. Size exclusion techniques may also be accomplished with the aid of low speed centrifugation.  In addition size permeation techniques such as gel electrophoretic techniques may be employed. These techniques are generally performed in tubes, slabs or by capillary electrophoresis. Almost all steps involving polypeptide purification employ a buffered solution. Unless otherwise specified, generally 25-100 mM concentrations of buffer salts are used. Low concentration buffers generally imply 5-25 mM  concentrations. High concentration buffers generally imply concentrations of the buffering agent of between 0.1 ¨ 2.0 M concentrations. Typical buffers can be purchased from most biochemical catalogues and include the classical buffers such as Tris, pyrophosphate, monophosphate and diphosphate and the Good buffers such as Mes, Hepes, Mops, Tricine and Ches [Good et al., Biochemistry,  
 5:467 (1966); Good and Izawa, Meth. Enzymol., 246:53 (1972); and Fergunson and Good, Anal. Biochem., 104:300 (1980]. Materials to perform all of these techniques are available from a variety of commercial sources such as Sigma Chemical Company in St. Louis, Missouri. Antibodies to the Polypeptides of the Present Invention The polypeptides of the present invention, and antigenic fragments thereof, as produced by a recombinant source, or through chemical synthesis, or as isolated from natural sources; and variants, derivatives or analogs thereof, including fusion proteins, may be used as an immunogen to generate antibodies.    Such antibodies include but are not limited to polyclonal, monoclonal, chimeric including single chain, Fab fragments, and a Fab expression library. Such antibodies can be used in diagnostic kits or as components in vaccines. Specific anti- Psp1 90 and/or p2 9O protein antibodies of the invention, for example, may be cross-reactive, that is, they may recognize one specific 90kDa protein, e.g.,Psp190, or a closely related protein obtained from a different source (e.g., a Piscirickettsia-like bacterium). Polyclonal antibodies have greater likelihood of cross-reactivity. Alternatively, an antibody of the invention may be specific for a single form of an inventive protein, for example, such as a specific fragment of Psp1 90 that has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, or a closely related variant thereof. In a particular aspect of the present invention compositions and uses of antibodies that are immunoreactive with a Psp1 90 and/or p2 9O protein are provided. Such antibodies "bind specifically" to the particular 'pi 90 and/or PsP2 90 protein respectively, meaning that they bind via antigen-binding sites of the antibody as compared to non-specific binding interactions. The terms "antibody" and "antibodies" are used herein in their broadest sense, and include, without limitation, intact monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies as well as fragments such as Fv, Fab, and F(ab') fragments, single-chain antibodies such as scFv, and various chain combinations. The antibodies may be prepared using a variety of well-known methods including, without limitation, immunization of animals having native or transgenic immune repertoires, phage display, hybridoma and recombinant cell culture. Both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies may be prepared by conventional techniques. [See, for example, Monoclonal Antibodies, Hybridomas:    A New Dimension in Biological Analyses, Kennet et al. (eds.), Plenum Press, New York 37 (1980); and Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Harlow and Land (eds.), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, (1988)]. Various procedures known in the art may be used for the production of polyclonal antibodies to a particular 'pi 90 and/or p2 9O protein, variants or derivatives or analogs thereof. For the production of an antibody, various host animals can be immunized by injection with the Psp1 90 and/or p2 9O protein, variant or a derivative (e.g., or fusion protein) thereof or fragment thereof, including but not limited to rabbits, mice, rats, sheep, goats, etc. In one embodiment, the inventive protein can be conjugated to an immunogenic carrier, e.g., bovine serum albumin (BSA) or keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). Various adjuvants may be used to increase the immunological response, depending on the host species, including but not limited to Freund's (complete and incomplete), mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide, surface active substances such as lysolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions, peptides, oil emulsions, keyhole limpet hemocyanins, and dinitrophenol. For preparation of monoclonal antibodies directed toward a given inventive protein, variant, or analog, or derivative thereof, any technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture may be used. These include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally developed by Kohler and Milstein [Nature, 256:495-497 (1975)], as well as the trioma technique, and the human B cell hybridoma technique [Kozbor et al., Immunology Today, 4:72 (1983); Cote et al., Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. U.S.A., 80:2026-2030 (1983)]. The monoclonal antibodies of the present invention include chimeric antibodies versions of antibodies originally produced in mice or other non-human animals. Techniques developed for the production of "chimeric antibodies" by splicing the genes from a mouse antibody molecule specific for a given inventive protein, for example, together with genes from a fish antibody of appropriate biological activity (e.g., a salmon) can be used. Such chimeric antibodies are within the scope of this invention [see in general, Morrison etal., J  Bacteriol, 159:870 (1984); Neuberger etal., Nature, 312:604-608 (1984); Takeda etal., Nature, 314:452-454 (1985)]. Hybridoma cell lines that produce monoclonal antibodies specific for the polypeptides of the present invention are also provided by the present invention.  Such hybridomas may be produced and identified by conventional techniques. One method for producing such a hybridoma cell line comprises immunizing an animal with a polypeptide, harvesting spleen cells from the immunized animal, fusing the spleen cells to a myeloma cell line, thereby generating hybridoma cells, and identifying a hybridoma cell line that produces a monoclonal antibody that binds the polypeptide. The monoclonal antibodies produced by hybridomas may be recovered by conventional techniques. According to the invention, techniques described for the production of single chain antibodies [U.S. Patent Nos. 5,476,786, 5,132,405, and 4,946,778], can be adapted to produce p. salmonis protein-specific single chain antibodies, e.g., PsP290 protein-specific single chain antibodies. An additional embodiment of the invention utilizes the techniques described for the construction of Fab expression libraries [Huse etal., Science, 246:1275-1281 (1989)] to allow rapid and easy identification of monoclonal Fab fragments with the desired specificity for Pspi 90 and/or p290 protein, variant, derivative, and/or analog. Antibody fragments which contain the idiotype of the antibody molecule can be generated by known techniques. For example, such fragments include but are not limited to: the F(ab')2 fragment which can be produced by pepsin digestion of the antibody molecule; the Fab' fragments which can be generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F(ab')2 fragment, and the Fab fragments which can be generated by treating the antibody molecule with papain and a reducing agent.     In the production of antibodies, screening for the desired antibody can be accomplished by such techniques as radioimmunoassay, enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA), "sandwich" immunoassays, immunoradiometric assays, gel diffusion precipitin reactions, immunodiffusion assays, in situ immunoassays (using colloidal gold, enzyme or radioisotope labels, for example), Western blots, precipitation reactions, agglutination assays (e.g., gel agglutination assays, hemagglutination assays), complement fixation assays, immunofluorescence assays, protein A assays, and immunoelectrophoresis assays. In one embodiment, antibody binding is detected by detecting a label, e.g., a fluorescent label such as fluorescene isothiocyanate (F ITC), on the primary antibody. In another embodiment, the primary antibody is detected by detecting binding of a secondary antibody or reagent to the primary antibody. In a further embodiment, the secondary antibody is labeled. Many means are known in the art for detecting binding in an immunoassay and are within the scope of the present invention. For example, to select antibodies which recognize a specific epitope of a particular inventive protein, one may assay the hybridomas generated for a product which binds to a protein fragment containing such an epitope and choose those which do not cross-react with a modified inventive protein that does not contain that epitope. One can select an antibody specific to 'pi 90 and/or Psp2 90 from a particular source based on the positive specific binding with that specific protein. SRS Vaccines The present invention provides SRS vaccines. One particular embodiment is a non-mineral oil injection prime vaccine comprising one or more antigens from Piscirickettsia salmonis, as disclosed below. In one embodiment of this type, inactivated recombinant bacteria (bacterins) comprise one or more of the Piscirickettsia salmonis antigens of the present invention. The present invention also provides SRS vaccines that are designed to protect against one or more other fish pathogens. For example, furunculosis is an infectious ulcerative disease of salmon and trout caused by the bacterium Aeromonas salmonicida. In a particular embodiment, the vaccine will comprise in addition to the Piscirickettsia salmonis component(s), two Infectious pancreatic necrosis (IPN) antigens as discussed herein, A. salmonicida as discussed below, Vibrio ordalii, Infectious Salmon Anemia, and/or Salmon Pancreatic Disease. Other fish pathogens include, but are not limited to: PATHOGEN (antigen)                     RELATED DISEASE  =                                      IPN virus    Infectious pancreatic necrosis =        Vibrio anguillarum or    Vibrosis Vibrio ordalii =                                      Vibrio salmonicida    Cold water Vibriosis (Hitra disease) =                                      Moritella viscosus    Winter sores disease =        Photobacterium damsela    Pasteurellosis (subspecies Piscicida) =        Lactococcus garviae    Streptococcosis Streptococcus iniae =                                      Moritella viscosus    Winter Sores =    Noccardia kampachi =    Renibacterium salmoninarum =                                      ISA Virus    Infectious Salmon Anemia =                                      IHN Virus    Infectious Heamorhagic Necrosis =                                      SPD Virus    Salmon pancreatic disease =                                      SD Virus    Sleeping disease The vaccines for these various diseases can be prepared from whole cells, bacterins, killed and/or attenuated virus, protein extracts, recombinant DNA  vaccine vectors, isolated antigens, recombinant antigens and mixtures thereof. Under particular circumstances, as for Photobacterium damsela and Aeromonas salmonicida, the vaccines are preferably prepared from two separate cultures grown under iron-depleted conditions and iron-supplemented conditions, respectively. In a particular embodiment, a vaccine comprises the Psp1 90 and/or Psp2 90 protein(s) from Piscirickettsia salmonis. In another embodiment, a vaccine comprises the Psp1 90 and/or p290Ps protein(s) in combination with one or more of the above-noted other antigens from Piscirickettsia salmonis (e.g.,the Ps45 protein). In another embodiment, a vaccine comprises the 'pi 90 and/or p290Ps protein(s), optionally in combination with IPN proteins, and optionally further in combination with one or more other antigens from Piscirickettsia salmonis. In still another embodiment, the vaccine comprises the Psp1 90 and/or p290Ps protein(s) and/or one or more other antigens from Piscirickettsia salmonis, one or more IPN  proteins, and one or more antigens to control Aeromonas salmonicida. In a particular embodiment of this type, Aeromonas salmonicida antigens are two types of whole bacteria grown on bacterial growth media and killed by the addition of formalin. For an SRS vaccine according to the invention, Escherichia coli was selected as the best candidate for hosting and expressing the Psp1 90 and/or Psp2 90 protein(s) of the present invention. Two IPN viral antigens are exemplified below (see also WO 02/38770, the contents of which are hereby incorporated in its entireties). One of which is derived from Vp2, which is the major outer capsid protein and the other from Vp3, which is an internal protein of the IPN virus. The molecular weight of the Vp2 protein is 52 kDa, whereas that of the Vp3 protein is 30 kDa. The IPN proteins of the vaccines of the present invention are preferably purified recombinant proteins.  In the Example 6 below, the IPN proteins are expressed and excreted by transformed yeast (Pichia pastoris) and then optionally purified from these yeast cells. Antigens for a vaccine that also protects against furunculosis can be obtained from whole killed bacteria Aeromonas salmonicida (e.g., formalin-killed).  Early A. salmonicida vaccines contain whole A. salmonicida bacteria grown in normal growth medium and then inactivated by the addition of formalin. These bacterins contain a mixture of antigens including the surface A-layer, inactivated proteases and lipopoly-saccharide. On the other hand when A salmonicida are grown in normal medium in the total absence of iron, a group of new antigens are expressed. These new antigens are termed iron-regulated outer membrane proteins (IROMPs). !ROMPS are highly immunogenic and they provide enhanced protection relative to vaccines containing inactivated A. salmonicida grown in normal medium. Four !ROMP proteins having molecular weights of 82 kDa, 77 kDa, 72 kDa and 70 kDa respectively have been identified. The primary and secondary antibody responses to !ROMP antigens in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) immunized with A+ (iron plus) and A- (iron minus) Aeromonas salmonicida bacterins have been reported [O'Dowd et al., Fish &  Shellfish Immunology 9: 1 25-1 38 (1999)]. Thus particular vaccines of the present invention contain one strain of A. salmonicida (MT004) grown under conditions of iron-limitation and one strain of A. salmonicida (MT423) grown under condition of iron-supplementation. The Vibrio anguillarum (serotype 01) and V. anguillarum (serotype 02) are different serotypes that are not cross-protective and therefore, for broad spectrum protection both antigens are can be included in the vaccine. Alternatively, or in combination, Vibrio ordalii can be employed. Administration The vaccines of the present invention may be administered to fish by any of a number of means including by injection (e.g., intramucuscularly, or intraperitoneally), immersion, and/or through a delivery system for oral vaccination. Vaccinating fish by injection can be performed either with an adjuvant to increase the activity of the antigens, or without an adjuvant.  Adjuvants include aqueous adjuvants, such as Alhydrogel or aluminum hydroxide, and oil adjuvants. Mineral oil adjuvants are commonly employed in fish vaccines and are included in the present invention. One such adjuvant is mannide oleate in a mineral oil solution. In a particular embodiment of this type, the vaccine comprises 70% mannide oleate in a mineral oil solution. Another mineral oil adjuvant of the present invention consists of white mineral oil, Span 80 [sorbitan monooleate], and Tween 80 [polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate]. In a particular embodiment, a vaccine comprises 80% of an adjuvant having the following formulation: 944m1 white mineral oil: 50.3m1 Span 80: 5.7m1Tween 80.     Since mineral oil adjuvants generally cause damage to the fish at the site of injection (lesions, which have to be removed before sale) and they depress growth rates for a period of time, the present invention also provides non-mineral oil adjuvants. Synthetic non-mineral oil adjuvants include those commercially available from Seppic SA. Montanide, e.g., Montanide I5A563, Montanide ISA  575, Montanide ISA 711, and Montanide ISA 760. Montanide ISA 711 is essentially mannide oleate in an oil solution. Particular embodiments of a vaccine of the present invention comprise 50% of either Montanide I5A563, Montanide ISA 575, Montanide ISA 760 or 70% Montanide ISA 711. Alternatively, vaccines can be applied by a long-term immersion bath. In one such embodiment, vaccination via an immersion bath is preceded by hyperosmotic treatment [see Huising et al., Vaccine 21:4178-4193 (2003)]. In another embodiment, a vaccine is administered by spraying the fish. The present invention also includes orally-delivered vaccines. Generally, oral vaccines are prepared by either top-dressing the food with an antigen (e.g., by spray drying) or by incorporating the antigen in the food [see, e.g., Vinitnantharat et al., Adv. Vet. Med. 41:539-550 (1999)]. Other techniques include water-in-oil methods, bioencapsulation, microencapsulation incorporation into liposomes, incorporation in hollow feed prills, and incorporation into microparticle carriers, e.g., poly-lactide co-glycolide carrier particles [see, e.g., Singh et al., Expert Opin. Biol. Ther. 4(4):483-491 (2004)]. Yet another method entails expressing the antigen in algae. Booster vaccines are also part of the present invention. In a particular embodiment, an oily emulsion oral booster vaccine comprising one or more antigens from Piscirickettsia salmonis is used after the primary vaccination.  Preferably the oily emulsion is made up of water:oil in the range of 6:4 to 4:6. The level of free fatty acids should not be greater than 5% by weight of the oil and preferably no greater than 3%. Particular oils include whole fish body oil and neutral marine oil. The emulsifier is preferably food grade. Lecithin can be used as such an emulsifier, e.g., soya lecithin. The emulsifier generally comprises from approximately 0.1`)/0 to approximately 5% by weight of the total emulsion. In a particular embodiment of this type, the oily phase of the emulsion is 47% v/v refined fish body oil plus 3%  v/v lecithin (Bolec MT) which are mixed, sterilized with gamma irradiation and then blended, using an homogenizer. The aqueous antigen phase can be diluted with phosphate buffered saline [see, GB 2 255 909, PCT/GB9101828, W0/92/06599]. Injection vaccination is usually conducted on a commercial scale using a fixed dose automatic repeating syringe or an automatic injection vaccination machine. These methods are designed to deliver a fixed dose of usually 0.1 or 0.2 ml per fish. The vaccine is injected through the body wall into the intra-peritoneal cavity. It is also possible to immunize fish by injecting the vaccine into the dorsal sinus. Generally, fish are vaccinated by injection following anesthetization. Immersion vaccination can be performed as follows: Dilute 1 liter of vaccine with 9 liters of clean hatchery water. Then Drain and weigh a netful of fish and dip fish in the diluted vaccine for 30 to 60 seconds ensuring that fish are totally immersed in the vaccine. After 30 to 60 seconds lift net, drain and return fish to holding tank. Repeat until 100kg of fish have been dipped into 10 liters of diluted vaccine. Oral vaccination can be performed as follows: A container of vaccine is brought to room temperature (20 C) and then shaken prior to use. The vaccine is mixed with the fish feed so that the vaccine is coated onto the surface of the fish feed and adsorbed. The total vaccine dose should be fed over a 10 day period at 1/10 dose per fish per day. VACCINATION RECIPIENTS  Salmonid rickettsial septicemia (SRS) was first observed in salmonids, which are the fish in the Salmonidae family, of the order Salmoniformes and of the class Osteichthyes. Salmonids are elongate bony fish with the last three vertebrae upturned, having a small adipose fin without fin rays between the dorsal fin and the tail. Many species of salmonids live in the sea, but enter fresh water to spawn. The Salmonidae family includes salmon, trout, char, and whitefish (see Table 1, below, which provides a non-exhaustive list of fish in the Salmonidae family).   Salmonidae Family Coregonus clupeaformis           Lake whitefish Core gonus hoyi                  Bloater Oncorhynchus keta                Chum salmon Oncorhynchus gorbuscha           Pink salmon Oncorhynchus kisutch             Coho salmon (silver salmon) Oncorhynchus masou               cherry salmon (masou salmon) Oncorhynchus nerka               Sockeye salmon Oncorhynchus tshawytscha         King salmon (chinook salmon) Prosopium cylindraceum           Round whitefish Oncorhynchus clarki              Cutthroat trout Oncorhynchus mykiss              Rainbow trout Salmo salar                      Atlantic salmon Salmo trutta                     Brown trout Salmo trutta X S. fontinalis     Tiger hybrid-trout Salvelinus alpinus               Arctic charr Salvelinus confluentus           Bull trout Salvelinus fontinalis            Brook trout Salvelinus leucomaenis           Japanese charr (white spotted charr) Salvelinus ma/ma                 Dolly varden (Miyabe charr) Salvelinus namaycush             Lake trout Thymallus thymallus              Grayling Reports of (SRS) and closely related Rickettsial syndrome afflicting fish as disparate as tilapia, white sea bass, rainbow trout, steelhead trout, grouper, Chilean sea bass, tiger puffers, red sea bream, blue-eyed plecostomus, striped bass, fluke, Atlantic cod, butter fish, ocean pout, spotted hake, summer and winter flounder, weakfish, yellowtail flounder, Windowpane flounder (Scophthalmus aquosus) cultured amberjack, three lined grunt, and blue eyed plecostomus indicates that the vaccines of the present invention may be used to vaccinate essentially any fish. Preferably the fish are in the Teleosti grouping of fish, i.e., teleosts. Both the Salmoniformes order (which includes the Salmonidae family) and the Perciformes order (which includes the Centrarchidae family) are contained within the Teleosti grouping. Aside from the Salmonidae family and those included above, examples of potential vaccination recipients include the Serranidae family, the Sparidae family, the Cichlidae family, the Centrarchidae family, the three-Line Grunt (Parapristipoma trilineatum), and the Blue-Eyed Plecostomus (Plecostomus spp) of Tables 2 and 3, below.   Some Members of the Serranidae Family TAXON NAME                             COMMON NAME  Centropristis ocyurus                 Bank sea bass Centropristis philadelphicus          Rock sea bass Centropristis striata                 Black sea bass Diplectrum bivitta turn               Dwarf sand perch Diplectrum formosum                   Sand perch Epinephelus flavolimbatus             Yellowedge grouper Epinephelus morio                     Red grouper Serranus phoebe                       Tattler Serranus tortugarum                   Chalk bass Some Members of the Sparidae family TAXON NAME                          COMMON NAME  Arch osargus Sheepshead probatocephalus Archosargus rhomboidalis            Sea bream Calamus penna                       Sheepshead porgy Lagodon rhomboides                  Pinfish Pagrus Major                        Red Sea bream Sparus aurata                       Gilthead Sea bream Stenotomus chrysops                 Scup Some Members of the Cichlidae family TAXON NAME                         COMMON NAME  Aequidens latifrons                 Blue acara Cichlisoma nigrofasciatum          Congo cichlid Crenichichla sp.                    Pike cichlid Pterophyllum scalare                Angel fish Tilapia mossambica            Mozambique mouth breeder Oreochromis spp                         Tilapia Sarotherodon aurea                  Golden Tilapia Some Members of the Centrarchidae family TAXON NAME                          COMMON NAME  Ambloplites rupestris          Rock bass Centrarchus macro pterus       Flier Elassoma evergladei            Everglades pigmy sunfish Elassoma okefenokee            Okefenokee pigmy sunfish Elassoma zonatum               Banded pigmy sunfish Enneacanthus gloriosus         Bluespotted sunfish Enneacanthus obesus            Banded sunfish Lepomis auritus                Redbreast sunfish Lepomis cyanellus              Green sunfish Lepomis cyanellus X L. gibbosus                       Green x pumpkinseed Lepomis gibbosus               Pumpkinseed Lepomis gulosus                Warmouth Lepomis humilis                Orange-spotted sunfish Lepomis macrochirus            Bluegill Lepomis megalotis              Longear sunfish Micropterus coosae             Shoal bass Micropterus dolomieui          Smallmouth bass Micropterus punctulatus        Spotted bass Micropterus salmoides          Largemouth bass Pomoxis annularis              White crappie Pomoxis nigromaculatus         Black crappie The present invention may be better understood by reference to the following non-limiting Examples, which are provided as exemplary of the invention. The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed, however, as limiting the broad scope of the invention.     EXAMPLES    IDENTIFICATION Of TWO 90 kDA ANTIGENS  From PISCIRICKETTSIA SALMONIS Potential Piscirickettsia salmonis antigens were identified by screening a P.  salmonis DNA expression library with polyclonal antibodies raised against P.  salmonis as follows: DNA was isolated from P. salmonis and partially digested with the restriction enzyme, Sau3A1. The isolated DNA was then cloned into the vector XGEM-12 (Promega) at a BamHI site. X phage structural proteins were then added and the phages were assembled. A phage library was produced containing 13,750 different phages. The library then was amplified in an E. coli host strain. The library was next transferred to the pGEM-5zf (+) vector (Promega) via the Notl site. An E. coli strain was transformed with the library, grown in the presence of ampicillin, and selected for ampicillin resistance. Clones were screened by replica plating using nitrocellulose membranes. Following the lysis of the bacteria on the nitrocellulose membranes, the membranes were blocked with milk and then incubated with anti- P. salmonis polyclonal antibodies produced by immunizing rabbits with formaldehyde killed P. salmonis bacteria. Next, the membranes were washed and then developed with goat anti-rabbit-HRP  conjugate. To detect recircularised plasmids that did not contain the inserts, the membranes were also exposed to X-gal. One isolated clone, designated 1057, appeared to express a 70-90 kDa protein. However, this putative 70-90 kDa protein was not purified, nor was it further characterized.     Initially, a Chilean strain of Yersinia ruckeri, a non-human enteric bacterium, was selected as the recombinant host cell to express the 70-90 kDa protein for possible use in a vaccine against SRS. This selection was based on the conventional wisdom that bacterial surface antigens are difficult to express in traditional bacterial vectors, particularly when the desired use for the recombinant vector would be as a vaccine antigen. Thus, it was believed the method of choice for expressing a P. salmonis surface antigen, as the 70-90 kDa protein was suspected of being, would be such a non-human enteric bacterium. Indeed, US  Published Patent Application No. US20070207165 (Al) and W02006037383(A1) specifically teach the use of such a recombinant Yersinia ruckeri vector to express P. salmonis proteins, and specifically exemplify the successful use of this vector to express the Psp45 protein. In fact, this project was deemed completed when a recombinant Yersinia vector was isolated that was believed to encode the P.  salmonis 70-90 kDa protein. However, the isolated recombinant Yersinia vector was fraught with stability and expression problems. Indeed, it was never clear what this recombinant Yersinia vector expressed, and more importantly, never clear whether this recombinant Yersinia vector ever actually encoded a P. salmonis 70-90 kDa protein. After considerable time and effort, this recombinant Yersinia vector was abandoned. The project was picked up again by sequencing the DNA of the parent clone 1057 clone. Surprisingly, rather than encoding one P. salmonis 70-90 kDa protein, it was found to contain 11 foreign open reading frames (ORFs).    Furthermore, two of these open reading frames, ORF1 and ORF2, unexpectedly were found to encode approximately 90 kDa proteins. The sequences encoding these seemingly unrelated proteins were designated ORF1 (the 'pi 90 protein) and ORF2 (the Ps p290 protein). The finding of 11 open reading frames, two of which encoded 90 kDa proteins, proves that the original assumption that the clone encoded a single P. salmonis antigen of about 90 kDa was incorrect. The proteins encoded by ORF1 and ORF2 were further characterized. The protein encoded by ORF 1 (Psp1 90) was found to have six predictive hydrophobic regions, whereas the protein encoded by ORF 2 (p2 90)was found to have only a single hydrophobic region. The P. salmonis DNA sequence encoding 'pi 90 (ORF1). SEQ ID NO: 1: ATGAAAAAGATAAT TACAATGATGT TAT TGGTGT TATCACT TGTGT TGGTCGCT TGTACC  CCAAGTGAAGAACCACCAACTACAGTGCCAGATGTTGAATCCATCGAATTTAATATGACT  TCAACGACTGTAGCACCAGGTGAACATACACTAGTTGCAAAAGCATTACCTGAAGGATCT  AATCAACAAATTAGATTTAGTATTCAAGGTATTGTATCTGGTGTATCCATTACGGGTGAT  AAGTTAAATGTTGGTAATGCTGTTGAAGATGGTATGAAATTTACAGTCGTAGCAACATCT  GTATATGATCCAACAATTCGTGCAACACTAGAGTTTACAGTTGTAAATGTTGGTGTTGAA  GTTGTTGAAATTAGAACAGAAGAAGAACTACGTGCAATTCATACAAATGAAGGTGGTTTA  TCATTATCTTATGTATTAATGAATGATATTGAACTAACAGCTCCATGGACACCAATTGGT  AT TGCTGAAGT TGAAACTGAT TCTGGGCAAATCAT TCCAGGTACGCCAT T TAATGGTATC  T T TAATGGAAATGGT T T TACAAT TAGTGGCATAT TAGT TGAAAGTGAAGAACCAT TAT T T  AATGCAGGATTCTTTGCTCAAATTGGTGCAACTGCAATTGTTAAGAATACAACATTTGAA  GGTATAGTAAATGCAACCGGATGGTCCGGTGGTATCGCAGGTATTAACGAAGGTTTAATA  GAAAATGTTGTATCTAATGTAAGAGTTACTGTAACAGGTACATCCGCAGGTTCGCTAGTA  TCTGTTAATAGAGGTTTAATCCAATATGCTTACGGTATTGGTAAAGTTGTTAGTGAAACA  AACCCTAATACATCAGGTCGTTCTGCTGGTTTAGTGGTTGCTAATGATGGATCAATGATT  GAAGTGTATGGTGACTATCAAGCACTTGGAACACCTAACTATACAGCATTTAGTCCATCA  ACAAACCCAATGTATATGTTACCTACAGTAGATATGAAAACATCTTCAACTTGGGCTTCA  T T TGATGCAGATGT T TGGTATAT TGAAAATGGTACATATCCAT TAT TAAAACATGAAGGA  TTCGTTCCACCAGTGATCGTTCCTGAATTAGGTATTACAATTAAAAATACTGAGTTAAAT  CATGATGTTGAAGTATCAAGTGAACTACAAATAAATGCAGAAGTCATTAACCCAGAAGGT  AGTGAAGT TAT TGT T TATGCACT TAAAGAAGCAGTAGCAGGTGTAGCAAT TAGTGAAACA  GGTTTAGTTACATTTGATATCACTACAATTGCTGCTAACTTCTCATTTACAGTAGTAGTG  ACAATTGATGGTACTGAAGTTAGTGCTGAAAAAACATTTACAGGCGTATATAACCCTGAA  AT TGTAGATGATACAGTGTATAT TGAAACAGAAACACAAT TAT TAAACT TACT TGCTGGA  CAAACAAACCCAGACAAT T TAAGTAAAACAT T TGTAT TAT TAAATGATAT TGTCT TAACT  TCTAATTGGACAGCAATTGGTATTGCACCAAATGAAGACGAAGGTATTGTAGGTGTTCCA  TTTACAGGTGTATTTGATGGTCAAGGCTATAAGATCTCAGGTATTAGTATGCCAGGTGGT  GGATGGAATAAAGGTTTCTTTGGATATATTGGAACAACTGGTGTTGTTAAAAACACACAC  TTTGAAGGTAATCTAGAAGCAAACGCATGGTCAGGTGCACTTGCAGCAAATAACTCAGGT  ACTATTCAAGATGTAGTTGTTGATATTGAAGTATATGTCTGGGGTAATAATGGTGGCGCA  ATCGTTGAACATAACCATGGTCTACTTAAAAATATTGTCGTATTAGGTAAAGCTGTATCA  GATAGTGGTCCTACAGCAGTTGGACTGGTTGTTACTAACTTTGGTACTTTAGAAAATGTA  TTTGCTAACGCAGATACAGTAGGTACAGCAAACTTAGTATCTAATGGTGCTCTCGCTGAT  GATGGTAAACACAT TAT TAGTGCCCAAGACT T TGT TAAAGCTACAACT TATGCAAACT T T  GATAGCGCAATCTGGTTAATCGTAGATGGCCAAGTACCTGTATTAATTAATGAAGATACA  GTAT TACCTGAAACAGTAGT T TATAT TGAAACAGAAGCAGAAT TAT TAAGCCTACT TGCT  GGTCAAGTAGATCCAGAAGCATTATCAAAAACATACAAACTTAAAAATGATATCGTTCTA  ACT TCTAAT TGGACAGCAAT TGGTAT TGCACCAAATGAAGACGAAGGTAT TGTAGGTGT T  CCATTTACAGGTGTATTTGATGGTCAAGGCTATAAGATCTCAGGTATTAGTATGCCAGGT  GGCGGATGGAATAAAGGTTTCTTTGGTTACATTGGAACAACGGGTGTTGTTAAAAATACA  CACTTTGAAGGTAATATTGAAGCAAACGCATGGTCAGGTGCACTTGCAGCAAATAACTCG  GGTACTATTATGGATGTTGTAGTAGACATTGAAGTATATGTCTGGGGTAATAATGGTGGT  GCAAT TGT TGAACATAACCACGGT T TACT TAAAAATAT TATCGTCT TAGGTAAAGCTGTA  TCAGATGGTGGTCCTACAGTAGTTGGACTAGTTGTTACTAACTTTGGTACACTAGAAGAT  GTATATGCAAATGTTGACACAGTAGGTACTTTAAACTTAGTATCATTTGGTAGCGTAGCA  GATGATGGTACACACAT TAT TAGTGCT TCAAACT T TGT TAAAGCAGAAACT TATGCAAAC  T TCTCAAGTGATGT T TGGACAAT TAT TGATGGTAGCACCCCTGTAT TAAAACAAGCATAA     The amino acid sequence of 'pi 90 (ORF1):  SEQ ID NO: 2 MKK I I TMMLLVLSLVLVACT P SEE P PT TVPDVE S I EFNMT S T TVAPGEHT LVAKAL PEGS  NQQ I RFS I QGIVSGVS I TGDKLNVGNAVEDGMKFTVVAT SVYDPT I RAT LEFTVVNVGVE  VVE I RTEEELRAI HTNEGGL SL SYVLMNDI ELTAPWT P I GIAEVE T DSGQ I I PGT PFNGI  FNGNGFT I SGI LVE SEE PLFNAGFFAQ I GATAIVKNT T FEGIVNATGWSGGIAGINEGL I  ENVVSNVRVTVTGT SAGSLVSVNRGL I QYAYGI GKVVSE TNPNT SGRSAGLVVANDGSMI  EVYGDYQALGT PNYTAFSPSTNPMYMLPTVDMKT S S TWASFDADVWY I ENGTY PLLKHEG  FVPPVIVPELGI T I KNTELNHDVEVS SELQ INAEVINPEGSEVIVYALKEAVAGVAI SET  GLVTFDI TT IAANFSFTVVVT I DGTEVSAEKTFTGVYNPE IVDDTVY I E TE TQLLNLLAG  QTNPDNLSKTFVLLNDIVLT SNWTAI GIAPNEDEGIVGVPFTGVFDGQGYK I SGI SMPGG  GWNKGFFGY I GT TGVVKNTHFEGNLEANAWSGALAANNSGT I QDVVVD I EVYVWGNNGGA  IVEHNHGLLKN IVVLGKAVS DSGPTAVGLVVTNFGT LENVFANADTVGTANLVSNGALAD  DGKH I I SAQDFVKATTYANFDSAIWL IVDGQVPVL INEDTVL PE TVVY I E TEAELL SLLA  GQVDPEALSKTYKLKNDIVLT SNWTAI GIAPNEDEGIVGVPFTGVFDGQGYK I SGI SMPG  GGWNKGFFGY I GT TGVVKNTHFEGN I EANAWSGALAANNSGT I MDVVVD I EVYVWGNNGG  AIVEHNHGLLKN I IVLGKAVS DGGPTVVGLVVTNFGT LE DVYANVDTVGT LNLVS FGSVA  DDGTH I I SASNFVKAETYANFSSDVWT I I DGST PVLKQA The P. salmonis DNA sequence encoding Ps p2 90 (ORF2);  SEQ ID NO: 3: ATGCATTTGGTGTTGTTGCTAAAAAGTAAAAAGGACAAATATATGAAAAAAATAAGC  TTAATAATGATTTTTCTGCTTTCTATCCTATTGGTAAGTTGTGTAGAAAAAGAAGAACCA  AAATTTGATCCAGATAAATATCTAGATTTAGAGAATATTGTATTTGATGATTTTGATAAC  GGAAT TGACCCGAATATGTGGGT TAT TGGTAATAGTAAGTGGGGTGTAGGTAATGGTGGT  GTCATCTATGAAAATGTCCATTACACAAATGACGGTATTGTAGTTCTTCAAACCAATGGT  GACTTGTATGATGGTCCACTTCGCGGTATTGGTAATACCCATGGCAGACGTACAGGTGCA  ATGATTACAACAAGAGAAGCACTAGGTCCTGGTAGATTTGAAGTACGTATGCGTATTATG  CCACGTTTTGGTTCAACTACTGCTATGTGGACTTACTATTATGATAATGGTATGAACCAT  GAAATAGATATCGAAAGTAACGTTGAAAATGACTTTAGAAAAGTATGGACTACAAACTGG  AT TAGT T TAACAGAATATAGTACTGTGTCTAATACCT TAGAT T T TGCACAAAATGAT T T T  GAATGGCGTACATACCGT T T TGACTGGT T TACAGATCCAAAACGCAT TGAT TAT TATAT T  GATGAAGTATTAGTTTCATCACAATCTTCTTATGTACCAGATCATGCAGGAGAATTTAAT  AT TGGTAAT TGGT T TCCAGATGCT TGGGCAGGTGTACCTGAT T T TGAAACAGACTATACC  TATGTAGACTGGTTCAAATATACACCATTTAAAGAACAACCATATACACCAACACCGGCA  AATAATCAAAGTCCTGCAAACTTCTATCCATCAGAACCAATTGAACATCCAATAGCAAAC  CTCATTTCAAATGCAGGTTTTGAAACAGATGCTCCAGCTTGGCGTTATCCTGTAACTAGT  GGTGTGGAACTACTAGAAGGTGAAGGTTTAAACGGATCAAGAGGAATCTTTGTTCCACAA  AATGATATTGCATATCAATTTGTCACAGGATTAGATGAAACCTTTGAAATGACATTTAGT  GCACATGCAAAACTACCT T TAAATGGTAGTGGATATGT T T TAT TAGAGT TCTACCCAGCA  GAGACACAAAAAAT TGATCAGTATATGAT TGAGT T TAACTCAAGCGATGAAGAT T T TATA  GCAGATACATTCTATGGTAAAGAATTTACCTTTAATGTACCTCTAGGAACTAAACGTGTT  GAAGTGTCT T TAAT TGGAGGAGAT TCTGGTATATACT TCGATGAT T TAT TCT T TAACCTA  ACTAAAAAACCCAGGCCCGAAATTGTAGAAGAAGGTGATGATGTGCAACGTTTAAACATA  GAT T T TAAAAATGGTAT TGACTCCAATGT T TGGGCAGT TGCAAATCAACGT TGGGGAGGT  ACACATCATGGTGGTGTAATCTTCCAAAACGTACACTACACAGAAGAAGGTAATTTACTC  AT TCAAGCCAATGGTGAT TACTATGAAGGTCCAT TAAAAGGTGT TGAACAAAATAATGGA  AAACGCACTGGGGGAGCTATCTATACTAAAGAAGCATTTGGCCCAGGATCTTTTGAAGTA  AAAGCTAAAATCATGCCACGT T T TGGGGCAACAACAGCAT T T TGGACAT T TAACTACT TA  GATGGTATTAATAGTGAAATTGATTTTGAGTTTAACGTAGGCAATGATTTTAGTACAGTT  TGGTTAACCAACTGGTTAACCGAAACAAACTATAACAACTACACCCATCAAATGGATAGT  TTCCATAATGATGGAAACTGGCATATATACCGTTTTGAATGGCATACACTACCGACGCCT  CATATTAAATACTTTATCGATGGCAAACTTGCATATACAGAACATACTAAAGTTCCAACG  ATGTCTGCAAGATACTGGATTGGTGTATGGTTTCCAAATAACTGGGCAGGAGATCCAAAC  T T TGAAACAGAT TAT T TAGAAGT TGAATAT T TCAAATATGAGTCAT TCCCGGATCATCCG  TATGTTGTTGGTCCAACTGGGGCATCCTCTCCAACAGCATTTTACCCAACAGCGCCAATA     AAAAAACCAGTTTCTAACCTTTTACCACACGGTAATCTAGATTATGAAACAGGTTATATG  TTAACAGGGGATGCAGTGATTTCAAATGGTGAATTGAAAACTGGTTTACTAGGCAGTGCT  GAGTCTCT TAT TACAGGGT TAAATGATGCCT T TGAACT TACAT TAAAGCT TAAAGCAAAA  GCCTCAAATAACGCAACCGTGCGCATTGAGTATTTAGATAAGGATTTAAATGTGATAAGT  GGTGAAGATAT TAT TGTATCAAACT TAAACGCGAATACAT T TACAAACT T TACATCCGTA  AT TAATCTAGTGGAAGGCACTAGAGCCATCAATGTGAT T T T TGAGGGAACAAATATCACA  TATGATGACT TAT T TATAAAT T TAACACACAAGGTGAAT TGA The amino acid sequence of Ps p290 (ORF2):  SEQ ID NO: 4 MHLVLLLKSKKDKYMKK I SL IMI FLLS I LLVSCVEKEEPKFDPDKYLDLENIVFDDFDN  GI DPNMWVIGNSKWGVGNGGVIYENVHYTNDGIVVLQTNGDLYDGPLRGIGNTHGRRTGA  MI TTREALGPGRFEVRMRIMPRFGSTTAMWTYYYDNGMNHE I DI E SNVENDFRKVWT TNW  I SLTEYSTVSNTLDFAQNDFEWRTYRFDWFTDPKRI DYY I DEVLVSSQSSYVPDHAGEFN  I GNWFPDAWAGVPDFE T DYTYVDWFKYT PFKEQPYT PT PANNQ S PANFY P SE P I EHP IAN  L I SNAGFE T DAPAWRY PVT SGVELLEGEGLNGSRGI FVPQNDIAYQFVTGLDE T FEMT FS  AHAKL PLNGSGYVLLEFY PAE TQK I DQYMIEFNSSDEDFIADTFYGKEFTFNVPLGTKRV  EVSL I GGDSGI YFDDLFFNLTKKPRPE IVEEGDDVQRLNI DFKNGI DSNVWAVANQRWGG  THHGGVI FQNVHYTEEGNLL I QANGDYYEGPLKGVEQNNGKRTGGAI YTKEAFGPGSFEV  KAKIMPRFGATTAFWTFNYLDGINSE I DFEFNVGNDFSTVWLTNWLTETNYNNYTHQMDS  FHNDGNWH I YRFEWHT L PT PHI KYF I DGKLAYTEHTKVPTMSARYW I GVWFPNNWAGDPN  FE T DYLEVEYFKYE SFPDHPYVVGPTGAS S PTAFY PTAP I KKPVSNLL PHGNLDYE TGYM  LTGDAVI SNGELKTGLLGSAESL I TGLNDAFELTLKLKAKASNNATVRIEYLDKDLNVI S  GEDI IVSNLNANTFTNFT SVINLVEGTRAINVI FEGTNI TYDDLFINLTHKVN The DNA sequences encoding ORF 1 and ORF 2 were then optimized for E. coli codon usage, avoiding internal TATA boxes, chi sites and ribosomal entry sites, and AT or GC rich sequences. Synthetic genes were made and cloned via pPCR-Script into pEGT1 (the vector was constructed by EGT, and contains a T7/lac promoter, f1 origin, is Kanamycin resistant, (KanR), and Hok-Sok). Western blot analyses with anti-peptide antibodies to ORF 1 and ORF 2 confirmed expression of approximately 90 kDa proteins from both ORF 1 and ORF 2. The E.coli optimized DNA sequence encoding Psp1 90 (ORF1); ORF1 sequences in pEGT1 (EGT optimised sequences): SEQ ID NO: 5 ATGAAAAAAATCATCACCATGATGCTGCTGGTTCTGAGCCTGGTTCTGGTGGCGTGTACCCCGT  CTGAAGAACCGCCGACCACCGTTCCGGATGTGGAAAGCATTGAATTTAACATGACCAGCACCAC  CGTGGCACCGGGCGAACATACCCTGGTGGCGAAAGCGCTGCCGGAAGGCAGCAACCAGCAGATT  CGTTTTAGCATTCAGGGCATTGTGAGCGGCGTGAGCATTACCGGCGATAAACTGAACGTGGGCA  ACGCCGTGGAAGATGGCATGAAATTTACCGTTGTGGCGACCAGCGTGTATGACCCGACCATTCG  TGCCACCCTGGAATTTACCGTGGTTAACGTTGGCGTGGAAGTGGTGGAAATTCGTACCGAAGAA  GAACTGCGCGCGATTCATACCAACGAAGGCGGCCTGAGCCTGAGCTATGTGCTGATGAACGATA  TTGAACTGACCGCCCCGTGGACCCCGATTGGCATTGCCGAAGTGGAAACCGATAGCGGCCAGAT  TAT TCCGGGCACCCCGT T TAACGGCAT T T T TAACGGCAACGGCT T TACCAT TAGCGGCAT TCTG     GTGGAAAGCGAAGAACCGCTGTTTAACGCCGGCTTTTTTGCCCAGATTGGCGCCACCGCCATTG  TGAAAAACACCACCTTTGAAGGCATTGTGAACGCCACCGGCTGGAGCGGCGGCATTGCCGGCAT  TAACGAAGGCCTGATTGAAAACGTTGTTAGCAACGTTCGTGTGACCGTGACCGGCACCAGCGCC  GGTAGCCTGGTGAGCGTGAACCGTGGCCTGATTCAGTATGCCTATGGCATTGGCAAAGTGGTGA  GCGAAACCAACCCGAACACCAGCGGTCGTAGCGCCGGTCTGGTGGTGGCGAACGATGGCAGCAT  GATTGAAGTGTATGGCGATTATCAGGCGCTGGGCACCCCGAACTATACCGCCTTTAGCCCGAGC  ACCAACCCGATGTATATGCTGCCGACCGTGGATATGAAAACCAGCAGCACCTGGGCGAGCTTTG  ATGCCGATGTGTGGTATATCGAAAACGGCACCTATCCGCTGCTGAAACATGAAGGCTTTGTGCC  GCCGGTTATTGTGCCGGAACTGGGCATTACCATTAAAAACACCGAACTGAACCATGATGTGGAA  GTGAGCAGCGAACTGCAGATTAACGCCGAAGTGATTAACCCGGAAGGTAGCGAAGTTATTGTTT  ATGCCCTGAAAGAAGCGGTGGCGGGCGTTGCCATTAGCGAAACCGGCCTGGTGACCTTTGATAT  TACCACCATTGCGGCGAACTTTAGCTTTACCGTGGTGGTGACCATTGATGGCACCGAAGTGAGC  GCCGAAAAAACCTTTACCGGCGTGTATAACCCGGAAATTGTGGATGATACCGTCTATATCGAAA  CCGAAACCCAGCTGCTGAACCTGCTGGCGGGCCAGACCAACCCGGATAACCTGAGCAAAACCTT  TGTGCTGCTGAATGACATTGTGCTGACCAGCAACTGGACCGCCATTGGTATTGCCCCGAACGAA  GATGAAGGTATTGTTGGCGTTCCGTTTACCGGTGTGTTTGATGGCCAGGGCTACAAAATTAGCG  GTATTAGCATGCCGGGTGGCGGCTGGAACAAAGGCTTTTTTGGCTATATCGGCACCACCGGCGT  GGTGAAAAATACCCATTTCGAAGGTAACCTGGAAGCGAACGCCTGGTCTGGCGCCCTGGCGGCG  AACAACAGCGGCACCATTCAGGATGTGGTGGTGGATATCGAAGTGTATGTTTGGGGCAACAACG  GCGGTGCCATTGTGGAACATAACCATGGCCTGCTGAAAAACATTGTGGTGCTGGGTAAAGCGGT  GAGCGATAGCGGTCCGACCGCCGTGGGTCTGGTGGTTACCAACTTTGGCACCCTGGAAAACGTG  TTTGCCAACGCCGATACCGTGGGCACCGCCAACCTGGTGAGCAACGGTGCCCTGGCGGATGATG  GCAAACACATTATCAGCGCCCAGGATTTTGTGAAAGCGACCACCTATGCCAACTTTGATAGCGC  CATTTGGCTGATTGTGGATGGCCAGGTGCCGGTTCTGATTAACGAAGATACCGTGCTGCCGGAA  ACCGTGGTGTATATTGAAACCGAAGCGGAACTGCTGTCTCTGCTGGCGGGTCAGGTGGATCCGG  AAGCGCTGTCTAAAACCTACAAACTGAAAAACGATATCGTGCTGACCTCTAACTGGACGGCGAT  CGGCATCGCTCCGAATGAAGATGAGGGCATCGTCGGCGTCCCGTTCACCGGCGTGTTCGACGGT  CAGGGTTATAAAATTTCTGGCATTTCTATGCCGGGTGGTGGTTGGAATAAAGGTTTCTTCGGTT  ACATTGGCACCACCGGTGTTGTTAAAAACACTCACTTTGAGGGTAATATTGAAGCGAATGCCTG  GAGCGGCGCTCTGGCCGCCAACAACTCTGGCACCATTATGGATGTTGTTGTCGATATTGAAGTT  TACGTGTGGGGCAATAATGGTGGCGCCATCGTTGAACACAATCACGGTCTGCTGAAAAATATCA  TTGTTCTGGGTAAAGCCGTTTCTGATGGCGGTCCGACGGTGGTGGGCCTGGTTGTGACGAATTT  CGGCACGCTGGAAGATGTGTATGCCAATGTTGATACCGTTGGCACCCTGAATCTGGTGAGCTTT  GGCAGCGTGGCCGATGATGGCACCCATATCATTAGCGCCAGCAACTTTGTTAAAGCGGAAACCT  ATGCCAATTTTAGCAGCGATGTGTGGACCATTATTGATGGCAGCACCCCGGTGCTGAAACAGGC  GTAA The E.coli optimized DNA sequence encoding p2 9O (ORF2); ORF2 sequences in pEGT1 (EGT optimised sequences). Note the corresponding E.coli optimized PsP2 90 amino acid sequence begins with an N-terminal histidine instead of the N-terminal proline for the naturally occurring p2 9O protein. SEQ ID NO: 6 ATGCATCTGGTGCTGCTGCTGAAAAGCAAAAAAGATAAATACATGAAAAAAATCAG  CCTGATCATGATTTTTCTGCTGTCTATTCTGCTGGTGAGCTGTGTGGAAAAAGAAGAAC  CGAAATTCGATCCGGATAAATACCTGGATCTGGAAAACATCGTTTTCGATGATTTCGAT  AACGGCATTGATCCGAACATGTGGGTGATTGGCAACAGCAAATGGGGCGTGGGCAACGG  CGGCGTGATTTATGAAAACGTCCATTACACCAACGATGGCATTGTGGTGCTGCAGACCA  ACGGCGATCTGTATGATGGCCCGCTGCGTGGCATTGGCAACACCCATGGCCGTCGTACC  GGCGCCATGATTACCACCCGTGAAGCGCTGGGTCCGGGCCGTTTTGAAGTTCGTATGCG  CATTATGCCGCGTTTTGGCAGCACCACCGCCATGTGGACCTATTATTATGATAACGGCA  TGAACCACGAAATTGATATCGAAAGCAACGTGGAAAACGATTTTCGTAAAGTTTGGACC  ACCAACTGGATCAGCCTGACCGAATATAGCACCGTGAGCAACACCCTGGATTTTGCCCA  GAACGATTTTGAATGGCGTACCTATCGTTTTGATTGGTTTACCGATCCGAAACGTATCG     ATTACTACATTGATGAAGTGCTGGTGAGCAGCCAGAGCAGCTATGTGCCGGATCATGCC  GGCGAATTTAACATTGGCAACTGGTTTCCGGATGCCTGGGCAGGCGTTCCGGATTTTGA  AACCGATTATACCTACGTGGATTGGTTTAAATACACCCCGTTTAAAGAACAGCCGTATA  CCCCGACCCCGGCGAATAACCAGAGCCCGGCGAACTTTTATCCGAGCGAACCGATTGAA  CATCCGATTGCCAACCTGATTAGCAACGCCGGCTTCGAAACCGATGCCCCGGCATGGCG  TTATCCGGTGACCAGCGGCGTGGAACTGCTGGAAGGCGAAGGCCTGAACGGCAGCCGTG  GCATTTTTGTGCCGCAGAACGATATTGCCTATCAGTTTGTGACCGGCCTGGATGAAACC  TTTGAAATGACCTTTAGCGCCCATGCCAAACTGCCGCTGAACGGTAGCGGCTATGTGCT  GCTGGAATTTTATCCGGCGGAAACCCAGAAAATTGACCAGTATATGATCGAATTCAACA  GCAGCGATGAAGATTTTATCGCCGATACCTTCTATGGCAAAGAATTTACCTTTAACGTT  CCGCTGGGCACCAAACGTGTGGAAGTGAGCCTGATTGGCGGCGATAGCGGCATTTATTT  TGACGACCTGTTCTTCAACCTGACCAAAAAACCGCGTCCGGAAATTGTGGAAGAAGGCG  ACGACGTTCAGCGTCTGAACATTGATTTCAAAAACGGCATCGATAGCAACGTGTGGGCG  GTGGCGAATCAGCGTTGGGGCGGCACGCATCATGGCGGTGTGATTTTTCAGAACGTTCA  CTATACCGAAGAAGGCAACCTGCTGATTCAGGCGAACGGCGATTATTATGAAGGTCCGC  TGAAAGGCGTTGAACAGAACAACGGCAAACGTACCGGCGGTGCCATTTATACCAAAGAA  GCGTTTGGCCCGGGTAGCTTTGAAGTGAAAGCGAAAATCATGCCGCGCTTTGGTGCCAC  CACGGCGTTTTGGACCTTTAACTATCTGGATGGCATCAACAGCGAAATCGATTTTGAAT  TCAACGTGGGCAACGATTTTAGCACCGTGTGGCTGACCAACTGGCTGACCGAAACCAAC  TATAACAACTACACCCATCAGATGGATAGCTTTCATAACGATGGCAACTGGCATATTTA  TCGCTTTGAATGGCATACCCTGCCGACCCCGCATATTAAATACTTCATCGACGGCAAAC  TGGCGTATACCGAACATACCAAAGTGCCGACCATGAGCGCCCGTTATTGGATTGGCGTG  TGGTTTCCGAACAACTGGGCGGGTGATCCGAACTTTGAAACCGACTATCTGGAAGTGGA  ATACTTCAAATACGAAAGCTTTCCGGATCATCCGTATGTTGTTGGCCCGACCGGTGCCT  CTAGCCCGACCGCCTTTTATCCGACCGCCCCGATTAAAAAACCGGTGAGCAACCTGCTG  CCGCATGGCAACCTGGATTATGAAACCGGCTATATGCTGACCGGCGATGCCGTGATTAG  CAATGGCGAACTGAAAACCGGCCTGCTGGGCAGCGCCGAAAGCCTGATTACCGGCCTGA  ACGATGCCTTTGAACTGACCCTGAAACTGAAAGCGAAAGCGAGCAACAACGCCACCGTT  CGTATTGAATACCTGGATAAAGATCTGAACGTTATCAGCGGCGAAGATATTATTGTGAG  CAATCTGAACGCCAACACCTTTACCAACTTTACCAGCGTGATTAACCTGGTTGAAGGCA  CCCGTGCCATTAACGTTATTTTCGAAGGCACGAACATTACCTATGATGACCTGTTTATT  AACCTGACCCACAAAGTGAACTAATAAGTCGACG   EXPRESSION Of The TWO 90 kDA ANTIGENS  From PISCIRICKETTSIA SALMONIS Upstream Process Batches of the two 90 kDa antigens were produced, The strains used were as follows: E. coli HMS174(DE3)/ pEGT1 /AL-ORF1- 90kDa (pi 90) E. coli HMS174(DE3)/ pEGT1 /AL-ORF2- 90kDa (p2 90) The strains were grown in shake-flasks. Each batch was prepared as a pool of shake flasks.     The protocol was as follows: 1. 50 pl of a glycerol stock was grown in 200mL of YES medium [30 g/I  yeast extract, 5 g/I NaCI], supplemented with kanamycin 100 mg/I [500 ml medium in a 2 L shake-flask]. 2. The culture was incubated at 37  C, with an agitation of 270 rpm. 3. When the 0D600 reached 2.1, protein expression was induced by the addition of 1 mM isopropyl-R-D-thiogalactopyranoside ("IPTG"). 4. The final 0D600 was around 2.2 for the ORF1-strain, and 1.7 for the ORF2-strain. 5. At the end of the culture, the pellets were harvested by centrifugation (5000 g, 30 min., 4  C) and the supernatant discarded.  
 6. Pellets were collected and stored at ¨20 C.  
 7. Cell breakage: Pellets were resuspended in 115 mL 20mM Tris buffer pH  7 for the ORF1-antigen and in 85 ml 20mM Tris buffer pH 7 for the ORF2-antigen. A French Press was used to break the cells and 2 cycles were performed (40K; 1000PSI; room temperature, all samples are keep on ice).  Volumes collected were 120 ml for the ORF1-antigen and 75m1 for the ORF2-antigen. The samples were stored at -20  C.   Purfication of PISCIRICKETTSIA SALMONIS 90 kDa ANTIGENS   DOWNSTREAM PROCESS  120 ml of the ORF1 antigen (Psp1 90) and 75 ml of the ORF2 (Psp2 90) antigen samples prepared according to Example 2 were semi-purified using a 300 kDa ultrafiltration. The retentates were concentrated to 50 ml and then diafiltered against 5 volumes of 20 mM Tris, pH 7.5. Both antigens were found to be in the retentate fractions forming large aggregates. The two antigens were then formulated by diafiltration with PBS buffer (137 mM NaCI, 2.7 mM KCI, 8 mM  Na2HPO4.12 H20, 1.5 mM KH2PO4, pH = 7.45) using a 300 kDa molecular weight cut-off ultrafiltration membrane.     Formulation Of Vaccines 125 ml of the 300-kDa retentates, as produced by Example 3, were then diafiltrated against 5 volumes of PBS buffer (137 mM NaCI, 2.7 mM KCI, 8 mM  Na2HPO4.12 H20, 1.5 mM KH2PO4, pH = 7.45). The retentates containing the respective ORF-1 and ORF-2 90-kDa-antigens were collected and stored at -20 C. The antigens were then sterile filtered through 0.2 pm filters prior to vaccine blending. The final protein concentration for the two antigens preparations were 0.089 mg/ml for ORF1 and 0.015 mg/ml of ORF2. SDS PAGE gels were run and scanned in order to determine the ratio of the 90 kDa antigens to total protein.  The ORF1 antigen was found to be 25.7 % of the total protein and the ORF 2 antigen was found to be 8.3 %. Final concentrations of the specific antigens were therefore 0.023 mg/ml for ORF 1 (Psp1 90) and 0.0012 mg/ml for ORF 2 (p2 9O). The vaccines were blended as follows: The oil based adjuvant Montanide ISA 711 (Seppic) was used in a 70:30 (adjuvant:antigen) ratio. Blend 1(90 kDa ORF1)    15 ml (0.345 mg) antigen, 35 ml adjuvant Blend 2 (90 kDa ORF2)    15 ml (0.018 mg) antigen, 35 ml adjuvant Blend 3 (PBS control)    15 ml PBS, 35 ml adjuvant Following mixing of the aqueous and oil phases, each of the respective vaccines was homogenised by serial passages through a syringe.   LABORATORY EFFICACY TRIAL Of VACCINATION Of ATLANTIC SALMON (SALMO SALAR) AGAINST SRS  The vaccines prepared according to Example 4 above, were tested for efficacy employing a challenge with P. salmonis at VESO Vikan, Norway. Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L., AquaGen Standard) were vaccinated at an average weight of 16.1 g in fresh water. Water temperature was 12 C to 15  C      1 C during the immunisation period and 15 C   1 C during the P. salmonis challenges. The water flow rate was 0.8 I/ kg fish per min. The fish density was a maximum of 40 kg/m3. Fish were acclimatised for 18 days after arrival at VESO Vikan. 105 fish were anesthetized and injected with 0.1 ml of each vaccine per fish, and a control group of 105 fish was anesthetized and injected with 0.1 ml of physiological saline with 0.9% NaCI per fish. The fish were tagged with ink and by fin cutting. The test groups and the control group were pooled after vaccination. 12 days before challenge the fish were sorted into two parallel tanks, with 50 fish per group per tank. 10 days before challenge the water temperature was raised to 15 C. Laboratory efficacy trial - challenge 48-52 fish from each group were challenged with P. salmonis by intraperitoneal injection in two duplicate tanks 8 weeks after vaccination.  The same challenge dose was used in both tanks (0.1 ml 1:1000 dilution per fish, and the dose was determined following prechallenge experiments). The temperature in the rearing water was 15 C during the challenge. The challenge material was grown at The National Veterinary Institute, Oslo and was kept at -75 C until challenge. On the day of challenge, the challenge material was dose adjusted according to the results obtained in the pre-challenge. The challenge material was diluted in PBS with 1.3 (:)/0 NaCI. Relative percentage survival (RPS60) was calculated on the day that control group mortality equalled exactly 60 (:)/0 or, if inappropriate, at the time corresponding to 60 (:)/0 control group mortality (t60) according to the expression: RP560 = (1-( MV60x100 )) X 100 n, x 60 In cases where control-group mortality did not equal exactly 60% on any given day of the trial, cumulative mortality of vaccinates at the time corresponding to 60 (:)/0 control group mortality was estimated from the expression. MV60 = MV60_1 + ( ((0.6 X nc) ¨ MC60 -1) X (MV60+1-MV6o-i) ) (MC60+1¨ MC60-1) The following definitions apply to the parameters of the first and second expressions, above. MV60 =      cumulative mortality of vaccinates at 60% cumulative control group mortality. MC60-1 =    number of mortalities in control group on last day before cumulative mortality rate in control group exceeds 60%. MC60,1 =    number of mortalities in control group on first day after cumulative mortality rate in control group has exceeded 60%. MV60_1 =    number of mortalities in vaccinated group on last day before cumulative mortality rate in control group exceeds 60%. MV60,1 =    number of mortalities in vaccinated group on first day after cumulative mortality rate in control group has exceeded 60%. nc    =     total number of fish in control group. n,    =     total number of fish in vaccinated group RPS60 =     Relative percentage survival at 60% control group mortality. RPS60 was subsequently calculated from the first expression, with the following results. Results Results for the challenge are summarized by FIG. 1, and by the tables below. As can be seen in FIG. 1, the challenged animals vaccinated by saline control (diamonds) or adjuvant control (squares) exhibited up to about 75%  mortality by days 25-30 post challenge. In contrast, animals vaccinated with the ORF-1 antigen (p1 90), denoted by "X" and the ORF-2 antigen (p2 90)denoted by triangles, exhibited both delayed and reduced mortality. In particular, animals vaccinated with ORF-2 (p290) exhibited no more than 5% mortality out to day 32.     Cumulative mortality as defined by RPSso Tanks A and B were set up with a random mix of vaccinated and saline vaccinated fish. Vaccine               RPS60 Tank    RPS60 Tank B    Mean RPS60 A 90 kDa ORF 1               96.8           100.0          98.4 (Psi:), 90) 90 kDa ORF 2               50.0           77.1           63.6 (sP290) Adjuvant + PBS             2.0            11.7           6.9 In order for the test results to be acceptable, mortalities in the control group must reach 60 % within 30 days after the first specific mortality has been recorded. As the results met these criteria the results were accepted as valid. The results therefore demonstrate that both the 90 kDa ORF 1 antigen (Pspi 90) and the 90 kDa ORF 2 antigen (Psp290) are capable to provide significant protection in salmon against SRS caused by P. salmonis.   Production Method Of VP2var or VP3 (50 Liter Scale) The yeast strains: Pichia pastoris GS115 - pPICZaB - VP2var.  The Pichia expression system is used to express the IPN protein antigens [Research Corporation Technologies, Tucson, Arizona, see U.S. Patent Nos.  4,808,537, 4,837,148, 4,879,231. Preculture: A 2-liter baffled shake-flask containing 400 ml of YSG+ (see below) is inoculated with 600 pl of the above-identified yeast strain. The culture is incubated at 30  C, with an agitation of 270 rpm, during 23 ¨ 25 hours. The optical density at 600nm (0Ds00nm) is >15 units (using a NOVASPEC II  spectrophotometer), as set forth by Table 5, below.     Composition of the Medium YSG+:  COMPONENTS                                CONCENTRATION Yeast Extract                                       6 g/I      PapaIc Soy Pepton     5 g/I Glycerol                                            20 g/I Fermentation: The fermentor Braun D50 is prepared with 50 liters of growth medium (SAPPEY, see below). The fermentor is inoculated with a volume (Vpreculture) Of preculture determined by the equation: =    Vpreculture (ml) = V fermentor (nil) X 0.05 / OD600preculture Where, V fermentor is defined as the volume of the growth medium in the fermentor, and the OD600precuiture is the optical density determined at 600 nm of the preculture solution obtained above.   Parameters for Fermentation PARAMETERS                                  SET POINTS pH                                                  6* Temperature                                         30 C Air-flow                                      80 l/min. P02                                            30% ** Agitation                                   400-(600) rpm Pressure                                      100 mbar * regulation with acid (HNO3 10%) and base (NH4OH 12.5%) ** with an action on the agitation to maintain the P02 at 30%  Automatic regulation of foam with 5AG471.   Composition of Growth Medium SAPPEY per 1 Liter: Components                                    Volumes Base solution                                       900 ml Complement solution 1    100 ml PTM1 solution       4.76 ml Quantities per 1 Liter of Base Solution [The solution is autoclaved in the fermentor (20 min., 121 C)] Components                                 Quantity Yeast Extract                              11.11 g/I PapaIc Soy Pepton                          22.22 g/I Antifoam 5AG471                            0.11 m1/I    Quantities per 1 Liter of COMPLEMENT SOLUTION 1 (The solution is sterilised by filtration with a 0.22pm pore membrane) Components                                 Quantity K2HPO4                 23 g/I      KH2PO4                 118 g/I      Glycerol               100 g/I   Quantity for 1 Liter of PTM1 SOLUTION  Components                                 Quantity Cu504.5H20                                   6 g/I  Nal                                        0.08 g/I  Mn504.H20                                    3g11 Na2Mo04.2H20                                 0.2 g/I  H3B03                                      0.02 g/I  C0C12.6H20                                 0.92 g/I  ZnCl2                                        20 g/I  Fe504.7H20                                   65 g/I       d-biotine              0.2 g/I  H2504                                        5 m1/I     The solution is sterilized by filtration with a 0.22pm pore membrane. The PTM1 solution must be added in the fermentor separately from the complement solution 1.   Composition of "INDUCTION SOLUTIONS" per 1 Liter (The methanol is added by sterile filtration with a 0.22pm pore membrane) Components                                     Volumes Methanol 100%                              6.3 m1/I of culture Yeast Extract solution                     22.5 m1/I of culture Quantity for 1 Liter of YEAST EXTRACT SOLUTION  [This solution is autoclaved (20 min., 121 C)] Components                                   Quantity Yeast Extract                                 222 g/I After 24 hours of growth, a first induction of recombinant protein expression is realized by the addition of methanol and yeast extract solution. At this moment, the OD600nm is greater than about 10 units. After the induction the p02 decreases quickly. After about 1 hour, it increases slowly to saturation. A second induction is realized after 48 hours of culture in the same conditions. The OD600nm reached is greater than about 13 units. After 72 hours of growth, the fermentor is cooled to a temperature lower than 20 C. The OD600nm reached is greater than about 13 units. Harvest and filling: The cells from the fermentor are then harvested. The culture is centrifuged (5000g, 4 C, 20 min) in order to eliminate the pellets. The supernatant is aseptically filtrated with a 0.2 pm pore membrane (Sartobran P) and 2.5 liter aliquots are placed into one gallon bottles. These bottles are then stored at ¨20 C.     AN INJECTABLE VACCINE FOR SRS, IPN AND FURUNCULOSIS  Summary One injectable vaccine of the present invention is a water-in-oil type vaccine that comprises a suspension of: (i)    two inactivated strains of Aeromonas salmonicida (MT004 and MT423), (ii)    two recombinant IPN viral proteins (VP2 and VP3) or antigenic fragments thereof, that are expressed by transformed yeast, Pichia pastoris in 0.85% p/v sterile saline, and (iii)    a suspension comprising inactivated recombinant strains of E.coli encoding 'pi 90 and/or Ps p290, in phosphate buffered saline. The VP2 (VP2var) recombinant proteins are expressed by transformed yeast, Pichia pastoris BCCM Accession No. IFIEM 20069 and/or BCCM Accession No.  IFIEM 20070, whereas the VP3 recombinant proteins are expressed by BCCM  Accession No. IFIEM 20071, and/or BCCM Accession No. IFIEM 20072. The oily adjuvant is MONTANIDE I5A711 and constitutes 70% of the vaccine's total volume. The formulation may contain residual amounts of formaldehyde, derived from inactivation of the cultures. This particular vaccine is designed and recommended for administration by intraperitoneal injection, to protect against salmonid rickettsial septicaemia, infectious pancreatic necrosis and furunculosis in fish, more particularly salmonids, and even more particularly, in salmon. Presentation This vaccine is presented in 500 ml high density polyethylene infusion flasks, closed with grey nitrile stoppers and having aluminium seals. The bottles and stoppers comply with the requirements of the relevant monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur). The containers are autoclaved at 121  C for 20 minutes. The stoppers are autoclaved at 121  C for 60 minutes.     Production Production of A. salmonicida MT004 Antigen: An ampoule of lyophilized work seed is removed from storage and is reconstituted and incubated. This culture is then inoculated in 4 liters of sterile iron-deficient TSB to form the production culture, and then incubated at approximately 21.5  C for 36-48 hours. The resulting culture is then aseptically inoculated in 15-18 liters of sterile iron-deficient TSB. It is incubated at approximately 21.5  C for 24 to 48 hours.  Then a solution of sterile formaldehyde is added to the flasks to inactivate the culture.  Each culture is mixed vigorously following the addition of the formaldehyde solution and is then transferred aseptically to a sterile storage bottle. The culture is kept at approximately 22  C for 96-100 hours to ensure the inactivation of bacterial cultures and protease activity. The formaldehyde is neutralized by the addition of a solution of 15% sodium metabisulfite. Neutralisation is completed in 20-24 hours at a temperature of approximately 22  C. The inactivated harvests are stored at 2-8  C until they are required for mixing. The production of A.  salmonicida MT004 antigen can also be performed as described below for MT423. Production of A. salmonicida MT423 Antigen: An ampoule of lyophilized work seed is removed from storage and reconstituted and incubated. This culture is then inoculated in 300 ml of sterile iron-supplemented TSB to form the production culture, and then incubated at approximately 21.5  C for 36-48 hours. The culture is next inoculated aseptically in 4 liters of sterile iron-supplemented TSB. It is incubated at approximately 21.5  C for 36 to 48 hours. The culture of production seed is transferred aseptically to 150 liters of sterile iron-supplemented TSB in a fermentor and incubated at approximately 21.5  C for 20-24 hours. Then a solution of sterile formaldehyde is added to the culture flasks to inactivate them. Each culture is mixed vigorously following the addition of the formaldehyde solution and is transferred aseptically to a sterile storage bottle.  The culture is kept at approximately 22  C for 96-100 hours to ensure inactivation of the bacterial cultures and protease activity. The formaldehyde is neutralized by adding a solution of 15% sodium metabisulfite. Neutralization is completed in 24 hours at a temperature of approximately 22  C. The inactivated harvests are stored at 2-8  C until they are required for mixing Production of Recombinant Proteins IPN (VP2 VAR) and IPN VP3:  Recombinant proteins IPN (VP2 VAR) and IPN VP3 are prepared and stored as described in Example 6 above. Production of Antigens of Piscirickettsia salmonis. The Psp1 90 and Ps p290 antigens are prepared for the formulation of the vaccine as described in Example 4 above. Mixing of the Final Vaccine Bulk antigens are mixed with the other antigen components, phosphate-buffered saline solution, and the oil component to obtain a bulk vaccine of the desired cell concentration. The volumes of bulk antigens required (calculated on the individual concentrations of bulk antigen, the required concentrations of these in the end product and the batch size) are removed from storage. The bulk antigens are transferred to cool, sterile containers and are mixed thoroughly. The volume of sterile saline required is calculated and transferred aseptically to the mixed bulk antigens. The antigens and saline are thoroughly mixed and the pH is adjusted to pH 7.0 - 7.4 with 10 M sodium hydroxide or 10 M hydrochloric acid (aqueous phase). The weight of sterile oily phase required is calculated and transferred aseptically to a sterile mixing container. The oily and aqueous phases are emulsified for 5 minutes at approximately 3000 rpm. The emulsified mix is maintained at ambient temperature for 24 hours. The mix is placed in the final containers, with a nominal fill value of 505 ml. The stoppers are inserted aseptically and the seals are applied. Each container is labeled, packaged and stored at +2  C to +8  C under quarantine until released for sale. The batch size varies according to production requirements and is normally within the range of 100 liters to 1500 liters. Materials Piscirickettsia salmonis antigens are prepared as described above. In addition two strains of Aeromonas salmonicida are used, which derive from isolated naturally infected fish obtained from fish farmed in Scotland. In spite of the fact that there is no evidence that there is any serological distinction between different strains of Aeromonas salmonicida, there is a scientific basis for including more than one strain in this vaccine. This is due to the fact that different isolated ones may be A-layer positive or negative. Considering that the presence or absence of this layer may not be directly linked to virulence, the absence of an A-layer allows greater exposure to outer membrane proteins (OMPs), and in particular, those OMPs produced only under conditions of iron restriction, as may occur during the infection process. As a result, the production and immunological availability of the iron restriction outer membrane proteins (IROMPs) is thought to be important to the efficacy of the vaccine. Aeromonas salmonicida (MT004): The MT004 strain is an A-layer negative strain which is cultivated under conditions of iron restriction. Development under these conditions results in the production of specific iron restriction outer membrane proteins that stimulate the production of bacterial antibodies following intraperitoneal inoculation. The strain was originally isolated from dying Atlantic salmon during an outbreak of furunculosis in on a salmon farm on the West Coast of Scotland in October 1985. It was passaged through tryptone soya broth six times and remained virulent to the host animal. Aeromonas salmonicida (MT423): The MT423 strain is an A-layer positive strain that has been cultivated in a fermentor under conditions of iron restriction. A-layer is a component of successful A. salmonicida vaccines and supplementation with iron has increased the protection afforded by the furunculosis vaccine.     The MT423 strain was isolated from sick Atlantic salmon from a salmon farm at Stirling University. It was passaged 16 times in Atlantic salmon and remained virulent to the host animal and is therefore appropriate for use as a vaccine strain. Both strains are inactivated by exposure to formaldehyde, being in non-infecting organisms, whereas it retains its ability to stimulate an immune response in vaccinated fish. The vaccine also contains the recombinant proteins VP2 var and VP3 of IPNV  as described in Example 6 above. Other Reagents are provided in Table 13:     Reagents REAGENT              COMPONENTS             CHARACTERISTICS Pancreatic casein Cow's milk from herds certified digestive enzyme BSE free, originally from France, but currently from New Zealand.  Porcine enzymes from France, Italy and Holland. Tryptone Soya      Soya digestive     No materials of biological origin Broth (TSB)        papain Sodium chloride Hydrogenated dipotassium phosphate Dextrose                              Synthetic or of non-animal origin Purified water                        Meets the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia. Hydrochloric acid -                   Meets the requirements of the (pH adjustment)                       European Pharmacopoeia. Sodium hydroxide -                    Meets the requirements of the (pH adjustment)                       European Pharmacopoeia. Formaldehyde       -                  Meets the requirements of the (Inactivator)                         European Pharmacopoeia. Saline solution    Sodium chloride    Meets the requirements of the (Diluent)                             European Pharmacopoeia. Purified water                        Meets the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia. Montanide          Contains oleic acid EDQM Certified available (Adjuvant) Assays Several tests are carried out to ensure that the consistency and quality of the vaccine and its components are maintained. These tests are described below. Aeromonas salmonicida Strains MT004 and MT423: The test methods used for both antigens are the same, except that the test for the presence of !ROMPS is not used for the MT423 strain, since this is multiplied in an iron-enriched medium. In addition, the criteria used for some tests are different for each strain. For the sake of simplicity, the following test descriptions specify the criterion for each strain where it is appropriate.     Purity Tests ¨ Gram Stain: Gram stain purity tests are carried out on each subculture during multiplication from seed to production culture. The test provides a rapid indication that the cultivated organism has the hoped for microscopic appearance and that no atypical organism is present. The test method is a simple Gram stain that uses conventional techniques and materials. Known Gram positive and negative control organisms are stained each time to confirm that staining and discoloration are appropriate. The test sample must only show small Gram negative rods. Purity Test and Characteristics of the Culture: An additional purity test is carried out on each of the 20 liter complete cultures and on the culture in the final fermentor. The test confirms the purity of the culture and contributes to global identity security. A sample of the culture is grown on plates of tryptone soya agar and incubated at 22  C for at least 48 hours, long enough for the different colonies to become visible. Plates inoculated with the test culture must exhibit only one type of bacterial colony. These colonies must be typical of Aeromonas salmonicida. The Aeromonas salmonicida MT004 strain forms semi-translucent, round, convex, cream-colored colonies with regular edges. A red-brown pigmentation is produced which spreads through the medium after around 24 hours of culture.  The Aeromonas salmonicida MT423 strain: Semi-translucent, round, convex, cream-colored colonies with regular edges, but developing more slowly than the MT004 strain. Identity of the culture: The identity of a given culture is confirmed in the samples on final fermentation. Identity tests are carried out on the final culture prior to inactivation to confirm that the correct organism has been cultured. It must be emphasized that none of these tests can differentiate the strains, but all contribute to the security of identifying the species. In addition to the purity tests, identity is confirmed by means of biochemical and agglutination characteristics:     =    Demonstration of the use of glucose without gas production. A sample from the final culture is inoculated in peptone water containing 1% glucose and phenol red in tubes containing an inverted Durham tube. The inoculated cultures are incubated at 22  C for 24-48 hours.  The test sample must show the use of glucose, indicated by acid production, without gas being produced. =    Demonstration of positive metabolism of cytochrome oxidase using commercially available impregnated filter papers: A single colony from the purity test plate (culture characteristics) is spread over the filter paper. A positive result is indicated by the development of a pinkish purple pigment while a negative result is indicated by no color change. The cultures must generate a pinkish purple coloration on the test paper, indicating positive cytochrome oxidase metabolism. =    Lattes cover-glass test using a diagnostic kit of pathogens from commercial fish (Bionor MONO-AS - Code DD020). A single colony from the purity test plate (culture characteristics) is mixed with a drop of antiserum on a microscope slide. The test uses a specific rabbit antiserum against Aeromonas salmonicida. A negative control culture is likewise mixed with a drop of antiserum. Positive agglutination must be observed with the test sample. The negative control sample must not show any agglutination. Optical Density: Optical density measurements at 580 nm are recorded at the end of each culture in 20 liter bottles and at intervals throughout final fermentation.  Optical density measurements are taken from 20 liter culture bottles to ensure that each of these inoculants has grown satisfactorily. Optical density measurements are recorded at intervals throughout final fermentation to determine the optimum time for harvest, as indicated at the end of the exponential growth phase. A sample of the culture is placed in a cuvette and the optical density is measured directly using a spectrophotometer. If necessary, the sample may be diluted in 0.85% sterile saline solution in order to obtain opacity within the spectrophotometer's range. The method is only used to confirm satisfactory growth of the inoculant and to determine the optimum time for harvest of the final fermentation. The final optical density reading is not critical and no set criterion applies. However, the final value obtained from the culture in the fermentor is normally within the following range: =    8 - 11 for MT004 strain (without iron) =    13-18 for MT423 strain (iron supplemented) The absolute criterion for optical density is not appropriate for several reasons.  First, considering that the medium used is of biological origin, there is inevitably a variation in the degree to which a specific batch will support growth. Second, the frequency of sampling for optical density is restricted to 45 minute intervals due to the need to re-sterilize the sampling port. Consequently, the precise harvest time may allow the culture to be maintained in the stationary phase for a short period of time, during which a reduction in optical density may be observed. Viable Count A sample of the culture is taken for the viable count at the end of fermentation and prior to adding the inactivator. The viable count serves as a definitive measurement of yield and forms the basis for subsequent mixing of the vaccine.    The viable count is carried out using the Miles and Misra method [see e.g., Hedges, Int J Food Microbiol. 25:76(3):207-14 (2002)] with Tryptone Soya Broth as diluent and Tryptone Soya Agar as growth medium. Suitable ten-fold serial dilutions of the sample are prepared and ten replicate 0.025m1 drops of each dilution placed on the agar plate. The plates are incubated at 22  C for 24-48 hours. Only those dilutions where colonies may be clearly counted are used to calculate the viable count.     The viable count is used as the basis for mixing the vaccine. The actual count is not critical and no set criterion is applied. However, normal counts are within the range 0.3 ¨ 1.5 x 1010/mlfor both strains MT004 and MT423. The absolute criterion is not appropriate for several reasons. First, considering that the medium used is of biological origin, there is inevitably a variation in the degree to which a specific batch will support growth. Second, the frequency of sampling for optical density is restricted to 45 minute intervals due to the need to re-sterilize the sampling port. Consequently, the precise harvest time may allow the culture to be maintained in the stationary phase for a short period of time, during which a reduction in optical density may be observed. Protease Test The protease test is carried out on a sample of material taken immediately following the inactivation period, but before the addition of sodium thiosulphate.  With the improved control of the culture's conditions, no release of protease has been observed. However, because it is possible to sample the culture from the final fermentor at intervals of no less than 45 minutes, there is the possibility that some cells will die, and consequently lysis may occur prior to inactivation.  This test provides the reassurance that any protease that may be released is completely inactivated. Protease Assay: 3 ml of inactivated culture is added to 20mg of SKY BLUE powder suspended in 2.5 ml of PBS and incubated for 15 minutes at ambient temperature. A  positive control in which 20 mg of trypsin replaces the test samples is also incubated.  The SKY BLUE powder is insoluble in PBS, but if protease activity is present, the material degrades and blue dye is released into the solution. The positive control must show a blue color while negative controls must remain colorless. To be acceptable, the test samples must not exhibit any protease activity. Positive samples must show a blue coloration.     Inactivation Test A specific test for inactivation of the culture is carried out following neutralization of the residual inactivator. A subsequent test for continuous and complete inactivation is carried out on the mixed aqueous phase of the vaccine.  The test confirms the complete, satisfactory inactivation of all viable organisms. Inactivation assay: 1 ml of inactivated culture is inoculated in each of six tubes containing 9 ml of TSB. Two of these inoculated tubes are inoculated with 0.1 ml of positive control culture with Aeromonas salmonicida of the same strains as the sample being tested, inoculating with a designated concentration of between 1 and 10 organisms. Two further inoculated tubes are additionally inoculated with 0.1 ml using the same positive control culture diluted 1 in 10. Also 0.1 ml of both positive control preparations are inoculated in two tubes, each containing 9.9 ml of TSB  and another two tubes of TSB medium are kept only as negative controls.  Therefore, duplicates of the following tubes are prepared (a total of 12 tubes in all): =    Inoculated with 1 ml of test sample =    Inoculated with 1 ml of test sample + 0.1 ml positive control =    Inoculated with 1 ml of test sample + 0.1 ml positive control (diluted 1/10) =    Inoculated with 0.1 ml positive control =    Inoculated with 0.1 ml positive control diluted 1/10 =    Not inoculated All of the above tubes are incubated for 48 hours at 22  C. At the end of this time, any tube in which growth cannot be seen is subcultivated. Subcultivation is carried out by spreading 1 ml of the medium onto each of two plates of tryptone soya agar. The medium is left to absorb into the agar for 1 hour at ambient temperature and the plates are incubated (inverted) for 48 hours at 22  C. The original tubes are also incubated for 48 hours at 22  C. At the end of this time, growth (or absence of growth) is recorded in all cultures. The criterion of being acceptable is that all the tubes inoculated with the test sample only and all plates inoculated from these must not show any growth.  In addition, all tubes inoculated with the highest concentration of organisms of the positive control and/or all plates inoculated from these must show growth of the control organism. If the tubes inoculated exclusively with the lowest dilution of the positive control culture and/or the plates inoculated from these show growth, similar results must be observed for the tubes and plates inoculated with the test sample plus the diluted positive control. The control mediums must remain negative. Test for !ROMPS  This test only applies to the material of strain MT004 and applies to a sample of final bulk antigen following inactivation and neutralization but, prior to distributing the material between the storage containers. The test is a qualitative method for confirming the presence of typical iron-restricted proteins in the preparation. SDS-PAGE electrophoresis is performed on the sample. The SDS-PAGE gels are electroblotted to PVDF membranes that are then incubated with a rat monoclonal antibody against !ROMP. Coupling of the monoclonal antibody is detected by a conjugate of goat anti-rat alkaline phosphatase and displayed using a NBT-BCIP substrate. A positive control preparation of Aeromonas salmonicida !ROMP is spread on the same gel together with the molecular weight markers.  The method is qualitative, but the acceptance criterion requires that the samples exhibit bands consistent with those of the control preparation. More particularly, protein bands must be detected at about 70, 72, 77 and 82 kilodaltons. Sterility The sterility of each container of final bulk antigen is confirmed using a specific sterility test although the inactivation test also provides additional evidence of sterility of the bulk product prior to distribution. The test provides the assurance that each container of bulk antigen is sterile. The method used is that indicated in the Ph. Eur. Using direct inoculation thioglycollate and soya broths are incubated at 32  C and 22  C respectively, and both are subcultivated after 14 days of incubation. The subcultures are incubated for 7 days, while the original cultures are incubated for a total of 21 days.  The method includes positive control cultures specified in the Ph. Eur. To be acceptable the samples being tested must be sterile. The positive control cultures must show profuse early growth (within 3 days).     SEQUENCES  SEQ DESCRIPTION ID NO.: 1         Nucleotide sequence encoding the genomic 1057 ORF 1 gene. 2         Amino acid sequence expressed by the ORF 1 gene [spi90]. 3         Nucleotide sequence encoding the genomic 1057 ORF 2 gene. 4         Amino acid sequence expressed by the ORF 2 gene [Psp290]. 5         Nucleotide sequence encoding the PEGT1 ORF 1 gene. 6         Nucleotide sequence encoding the PEGT1 ORF 2 gene. 7         Amino acid sequence of the 45 kDa protein.  
 8         Amino acid sequence of the 45 kDa protein minus the signal peptide.  
 9         Amino acid sequence of an AMP binding enzyme homolog.  
 10        Amino acid sequence of ORF A.  
 11        Amino acid sequence of ORF B.  
 12        Amino acid sequence of a DDE endonuclease homolog.  
 13        Amino acid sequence of a transposase homolog.  
 14        Amino acid sequence of an HlyD homolog.  
 15        Amino acid sequence of an AcrB/AcrD/AcrF homolog.  
 16        2,092 nucleotide nucleotide sequence comprising the coding sequence of the 45 kDa protein.     PCT Print Out (Original in Electronic Form) (This sheet is not part of and does not count as a sheet of the international application) 0-1    Form PCT/RO/134 (SAFE) Indications Relating to Deposited Microorganism(s) or Other Biological Material (PCT Rule 13bis) 0-1-1 Prepared Using          PCT Online Filing Version 3.5.000.204 MT/FOP 20020701/0.20.5.9 0-2    International Application No. 0-3    Applicant's or agent's file reference AH06673 WO 1    The indications made below relate to the deposited microorganism(s) or other biological material referred to in the description on: 1-1    page                   15 1-2    line                   21-27 1-3    Identification of deposit 1-3-1 Name of depositary institution    BCCM Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms 1-3-2 Address of depositary institution    Federal Public Planning Service Science Policy, 8, rue de la Science, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium 1-3-3 Date of deposit         29 October 2007 (29.10.2007) 1-3-4 Accession Number        BCCM LMBP 5690 1-5    Designated States for Which    all designations Indications are Made FOR RECEIVING OFFICE USE ONLY 0-4    This form was received with the international application:       yes (yes or no) 0-4-1    Authorized officer      Pasche, Constantinus FOR INTERNATIONAL BUREAU USE ONLY 0-5    This form was received by the international Bureau on: 0-5-1    Authorized officer BELGIAN COORDINATED COLLECTIONS OF MICROORGANISMS - BCCIVing LMBP-COLLECTION Page 1 of Form BCCM1u/LMBP/BP/4/07-32 Receipt in the case of an original deposit Budapest Treaty on the international Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure Receipt in the case of an original dep9sit Issued pursuant to Rule 7.1 by the International Depositary Authority BCCM1"/LMBP Identified at the bottom of next page international Form BCCIYInliLMBP/BP/4/0742 To : Name of the depositor: SCHERING-PLOUGH LTD. Address                : Weystrasse 20 P.O. Box CH-6000 LuCOMO 6 SWITZERLAND Identification of the microorganism: 1.1        Identification reference given by the depositor: E. coil HMS174(DE3)! pEGT1 /AL-ORF1-90kDa 1.2        Accession number given by the International Depositary Authority:     BELGIAN COORDINATED COLLECTIONS OF MICROORGANISMS - BCCMTm LMBP-COLLECTION Page 2 of Form 8CCIe/LMEIP/BP/4/07-32 Receipt in the case of an original deposit II.    Scientific description and/or proposed taxonorrdc designation The microorganism identified under I above was accompanied by: (mark with a cross the applicable box(es)) -                                             a scientific description    Yes 0    no 0 -                                             a proposed taxonomic designation yes 0    no C III.                                          Receipt and acceptance This international Depositary Authority accepts the microorganism identified under 1 above, which was received by it on (date of original deposit): October 19, IV.    International Depositary Authority Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCMTIA) Laboratorium voor Moleculaire Biologie - Plasmidencollectie (LMBP) . Universiteit Gent Technologiepark 927 B-9052 Gent-Zwijnaarde, Belgium Signature(s) of person(s) having the power to represent the International Depositary Authority or of authorized official(s): .......----41;400 1 Date: October 29, 2007              Anneleen Olbrechts Curator BCCMILMBP Patent - and Safe deposits ._.     BELGIAN COORDINATED COLLECTIONS OF MICROORGANISMS - BCCMTII  LMBP-COLLECTION Page 1 of Form BCCMIII/LMBP/BP/4/07-33 Receipt In the case of an original deposit Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure Receipt In the case of an original deppsit issued pursuant to Rule 7.1 by the International Depositary Authority BCC111""ILMBP identified at the bottom of next page International Form BCCMTII/LMBP/BP/4/07-33 To:    Name of the depositor: SCHERING-PLOUGH LTD. Address                : Weystrasse 20 P.O. Box CH-6000 Lucerne 6 SWITZERLAND Identification of the microorganism: 1.1        Identification reference given by the depositor: E. coif HMS174(DE3y pEGT1 /AL-ORF2-901cDa 1.2        Accession number given by the international Depositary Authority:     BELGIAN COORDINATED COLLECTIONS OF MICROORGANISMS - BCCMIld LMBP-COLLECTION Page 2 of Form BCCMThl/I-MBP/BP/4/07-33 Receipt in the case of an original deposit 11.    Scientific description and/or proposed taxonomic designation The microorganism identified under I above was accompanied by: (mark with a cross the applicable box(es)) -                                             a scientific description    Yes no 0 -    a proposed taxonomic designation    yes 0    no Ill.    Receipt and acceptance This International Depositary Authority accepts the microorganism Identified under I  above, which was received by it on (date of original deposit): October 19, IV.    International Depositary Authority Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCMTIR) Laboratorium voor Moleculaire Biologie - Plasmidencollectie (LMBP)           . Universitelt Gent Technologieparic 927 B-9052 Gent-Zwijnaarde, Belgium Signature(s) of person(s) having the power to represent the International Depositary Authority or of authorized official(s): 4101i ditAk Date: October 29, 2007              Anneleen Olbrechts Curator BCCANLMBP Patent - and Safe deposits _ LMBP-COLLECTION Page 1 of Form BCCOI/LMBP/BP19/07-32 Viability statement Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure Viability statement issued pursuant to Rule 10.2 by the international Depositary Authority BCCMTN/LMBP identified on the following page International Form BCCHnI/LMBP/BP/9/07-32 To:    Party to whom the viability statement Is issued: Name                   : Mr James M. Gould Address                : SCHERING-PLOUGH LTD. Weystrasse 20 P.O. Box CH-6000 Lucerne 6 SWITZERLAND 1.    Depositor: 1.1        Name        : SCHERING-PLOUGH LTD. 1.2        Address     : Weystrasse 20 P.O. Box CH-6000 Lucerne 6 SWITZERLAND 11.    Identification of the microorganism: 11.1       Accession number given by the International Depositary Authority:   11.2       Date of the original deposit (or where a new deposit or a transfer has been made, the most recent relevant date): October 19, 2001 Viability statement. The viability of the microorganism Identified under II above was tested on: October 23, 2007 (Give date. In the cases referred to in Rule 10.2(a)(ii) and (iii), refer to the most recent viability test). On that date, the said microorganism was: (mark the applicable box with a cross) I    viable 0    no longer viable BELGIAN COORDINATED COLLECTIONS OF MICROORGANISMS - BCCFArm LMBP-COLLECTION Page 2 of Form BCCMTm/LMBP/BP/9/07-32 Viability statement IV.    Conditions under which the viability test has been performed: (Fill in if the information has been requested and if the results of the test were negative). V.    international Depositary Authority Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCMT11) Laboratorium voor Moleculaire Biologie - Plasmidencollectie (LMBP) Universitelt Gent Technologiepark 927 B-9052 Gent-Zwijnaarde, Belgium Signature(s) of person(s) having the power to represent the International Depositary Authority or of authorized official(s): Date: October 29, 2007              Anneleen Olbrechts Curator BCCM/LMBP Patent - and Safe deposits                                  -BELGIAN COORDINATED COLLECTIONS OF MICROORGANISMS - BCCMal LMBP-COLLECTIOli. Page 1 of Form BCCIW 7114113P/BP/9/07-33 Viability statement Budapest Treaty on the international Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure Viability statement issued pursuant to Rule 10.2 by the International Depositary Authority BCCP411.7LIIBP Identified on the following page International Form BCCMTIAILMBP/BP/9/07-33 To:    Party to whom the viability statement is issued: Name                   : Mr James M. Gould Address                : SCHERING-PLOUGH LTD. Weystrasse 20 P.O. Box CH-6000 Lucerne 6 SWITZERLAND 1.    Depositor 1.1         Name       : SCHERING-PLOUGH LTD. 1.2         Address    : Weystrasse 20 P.O. Box CH-6000 Lucerne 6 SWITZERLAND II.    identification of the microorganism: 11.1        Accession number given by the International Depositary Authority:   112         Date of the original deposit (or where a new deposit or a transfer has been made, the most recent relevant date): October 19, 2007 III.    Viability statement The viability of the microorganism identified under II above was tested on:  October 23, 2007 (Give date. in the cases referred to in Rule 10.2(a)(ii) and (iii), refer to the most recent viability test). On that date, the said microorganism was: (mark the applicable box with a cross) r         viable 0         no longer viable LMBP-COLLECTION Page 2 of Form BCCMTHA.MBP/BP/9/07-33 Viability statement IV.    Conditions under which the viability test has been performed: (Fill in if the information has been requested and if the results of the test were negative). V.    International Depositary Authority Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCMT") Laboratorium voor Moleculaire Biologie - Plasmidencollectie (LMI313) Univemitelt Gent Tech nologlepark 927 9-9052 Gent-Zwijnaarde, Belgium Signature(s) of person(s) having the power to represent the International Depositary Authority or of authorized official(s): ,i41                                       .11 I riot kvir Data: October 20, 2007              Anneleen Olbrechts Curator BCCMA.MBP Patent - and Safe deposits                                 -79a SEQUENCE LISTING IN ELECTRONIC FORM  In accordance with Section 111(1) of the Patent Rules, this description contains a sequence listing in electronic form in ASCII text format (file: 30339-156 Seq 06-JUL-10 vl.txt). A copy of the sequence listing in electronic form is available from the Canadian Intellectual Property Office. The sequences in the sequence listing in electronic form are reproduced in the following table. SEQUENCE TABLE  <110> Schering-Plough Ltd.  Kirke, David F. Francis, Michael J. <120> Vaccine Antigens from Piscirickettsia Salmonis <130> AH06673 <140> PCT/EP2008/067830 <141> 2008-12-18 <150> US 61/014782 <151> 2007-12-19 <160> 16 <170> PatentIn version 3.5 <210> 1 <211> 2820 <212> DNA <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 1 atgaaaaaga taattacaat gatgttattg gtgttatcac ttgtgttggt cgcttgtacc        60 ccaagtgaag aaccaccaac tacagtgcca gatgttgaat ccatcgaatt taatatgact        120 tcaacgactg tagcaccagg tgaacataca ctagttgcaa aagcattacc tgaaggatct        180 aatcaacaaa ttagatttag tattcaaggt attgtatctg gtgtatccat tacgggtgat        240 aagttaaatg ttggtaatgc tgttgaagat ggtatgaaat ttacagtcgt agcaacatct        300 gtatatgatc caacaattcg tgcaacacta gagtttacag ttgtaaatgt tggtgttgaa        360 gttgttgaaa ttagaacaga agaagaacta cgtgcaattc atacaaatga aggtggttta        420 tcattatctt atgtattaat gaatgatatt gaactaacag ctccatggac accaattggt        480 attgctgaag ttgaaactga ttctgggcaa atcattccag gtacgccatt taatggtatc        540 tttaatggaa atggttttac aattagtggc atattagttg aaagtgaaga accattattt        600 aatgcaggat tctttgctca aattggtgca actgcaattg ttaagaatac aacatttgaa        660 ggtatagtaa atgcaaccgg atggtccggt ggtatcgcag gtattaacga aggtttaata        720 gaaaatgttg tatctaatgt aagagttact gtaacaggta catccgcagg ttcgctagta        780 tctgttaata gaggtttaat ccaatatgct tacggtattg gtaaagttgt tagtgaaaca        840 aaccctaata catcaggtcg ttctgctggt ttagtggttg ctaatgatgg atcaatgatt        900 gaagtgtatg gtgactatca agcacttgga acacctaact atacagcatt tagtccatca        960 acaaacccaa tgtatatgtt acctacagta gatatgaaaa catcttcaac ttgggcttca        1020 tttgatgcag atgtttggta tattgaaaat ggtacatatc cattattaaa acatgaagga        1080 7 9b ttcgttccac cagtgatcgt tcctgaatta ggtattacaa ttaaaaatac tgagttaaat         1140 catgatgttg aagtatcaag tgaactacaa ataaatgcag aagtcattaa cccagaaggt         1200 agtgaagtta ttgtttatgc acttaaagaa gcagtagcag gtgtagcaat tagtgaaaca         1260 ggtttagtta catttgatat cactacaatt gctgctaact tctcatttac agtagtagtg         1320 acaattgatg gtactgaagt tagtgctgaa aaaacattta caggcgtata taaccctgaa         1380 attgtagatg atacagtgta tattgaaaca gaaacacaat tattaaactt acttgctgga         1440 caaacaaacc cagacaattt aagtaaaaca tttgtattat taaatgatat tgtcttaact         1500 tctaattgga cagcaattgg tattgcacca aatgaagacg aaggtattgt aggtgttcca         1560 tttacaggtg tatttgatgg tcaaggctat aagatctcag gtattagtat gccaggtggt         1620 ggatggaata aaggtttctt tggatatatt ggaacaactg gtgttgttaa aaacacacac         1680 tttgaaggta atctagaagc aaacgcatgg tcaggtgcac ttgcagcaaa taactcaggt         1740 actattcaag atgtagttgt tgatattgaa gtatatgtct ggggtaataa tggtggcgca         1800 atcgttgaac ataaccatgg tctacttaaa aatattgtcg tattaggtaa agctgtatca         1860 gatagtggtc ctacagcagt tggactggtt gttactaact ttggtacttt agaaaatgta         1920 tttgctaacg cagatacagt aggtacagca aacttagtat ctaatggtgc tctcgctgat         1980 gatggtaaac acattattag tgcccaagac tttgttaaag ctacaactta tgcaaacttt         2040 gatagcgcaa tctggttaat cgtagatggc caagtacctg tattaattaa tgaagataca         2100 gtattacctg aaacagtagt ttatattgaa acagaagcag aattattaag cctacttgct         2160 ggtcaagtag atccagaagc attatcaaaa acatacaaac ttaaaaatga tatcgttcta         2220 acttctaatt ggacagcaat tggtattgca ccaaatgaag acgaaggtat tgtaggtgtt         2280 ccatttacag gtgtatttga tggtcaaggc tataagatct caggtattag tatgccaggt         2340 ggcggatgga ataaaggttt ctttggttac attggaacaa cgggtgttgt taaaaataca         2400 cactttgaag gtaatattga agcaaacgca tggtcaggtg cacttgcagc aaataactcg         2460 ggtactatta tggatgttgt agtagacatt gaagtatatg tctggggtaa taatggtggt         2520 gcaattgttg aacataacca cggtttactt aaaaatatta tcgtcttagg taaagctgta         2580 tcagatggtg gtcctacagt agttggacta gttgttacta actttggtac actagaagat         2640 gtatatgcaa atgttgacac agtaggtact ttaaacttag tatcatttgg tagcgtagca         2700 gatgatggta cacacattat tagtgcttca aactttgtta aagcagaaac ttatgcaaac         2760 ttctcaagtg atgtttggac aattattgat ggtagcaccc ctgtattaaa acaagcataa         2820 <210> 2 <211> 939 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 2 Met Lys Lys Ile Ile Thr Met Met Leu Leu Val Leu Ser Leu Val Leu Val Ala Cys Thr Pro Ser Glu Glu Pro Pro Thr Thr Val Pro Asp Val Glu Ser Ile Glu Phe Asn Met Thr Ser Thr Thr Val Ala Pro Gly Glu His Thr Leu Val Ala Lys Ala Leu Pro Glu Gly Ser Asn Gln Gin Ile Arg Phe Ser Ile Gin Gly Ile Val Ser Gly Val Ser Ile Thr Gly Asp Lys Leu Asn Val Gly Asn Ala Val Glu Asp Gly Met Lys Phe Thr Val Val Ala Thr Ser Val Tyr Asp Pro Thr Ile Arg Ala Thr Leu Glu Phe Thr Val Val Asn Val Gly Val Glu Val Val Glu Ile Arg Thr Glu Glu Glu Leu Arg Ala Ile His Thr Asn Glu Gly Gly Leu Ser Leu Ser Tyr Val Leu Met Asn Asp Ile Glu Leu Thr Ala Pro Trp Thr Pro Ile Gly Ile Ala Glu Val Glu Thr Asp Ser Gly Gin Ile Ile Pro Gly Thr Pro 79c Phe Asn Gly Ile Phe Asn Gly Asn Gly Phe Thr Ile Ser Gly Ile Leu Val Glu Ser Glu Glu Pro Leu Phe Asn Ala Gly Phe Phe Ala Gin Ile Gly Ala Thr Ala Ile Val Lys Asn Thr Thr Phe Glu Gly Ile Val Asn Ala Thr Gly Trp Ser Gly Gly Ile Ala Gly Ile Asn Glu Gly Leu Ile Glu Asn Val Val Ser Asn Val Arg Val Thr Val Thr Gly Thr Ser Ala Gly Ser Leu Val Ser Val Asn Arg Gly Leu Ile Gin Tyr Ala Tyr Gly Ile Gly Lys Val Val Ser Glu Thr Asn Pro Asn Thr Ser Gly Arg Ser Ala Gly Leu Val Val Ala Asn Asp Gly Ser Met Ile Glu Val Tyr Gly Asp Tyr Gin Ala Leu Gly Thr Pro Asn Tyr Thr Ala Phe Ser Pro Ser Thr Asn Pro Met Tyr Met Leu Pro Thr Val Asp Met Lys Thr Ser Ser Thr Trp Ala Ser Phe Asp Ala Asp Val Trp Tyr Ile Glu Asn Gly Thr Tyr Pro Leu Leu Lys His Glu Gly Phe Val Pro Pro Val Ile Val Pro Glu Leu Gly Ile Thr Ile Lys Asn Thr Glu Leu Asn His Asp Val Glu Val Ser Ser Glu Leu Gin Ile Asn Ala Glu Val Ile Asn Pro Glu Gly Ser Glu Val Ile Val Tyr Ala Leu Lys Glu Ala Val Ala Gly Val Ala Ile Ser Glu Thr Gly Leu Val Thr Phe Asp Ile Thr Thr Ile Ala Ala Asn Phe Ser Phe Thr Val Val Val Thr Ile Asp Gly Thr Glu Val Ser Ala Glu Lys Thr Phe Thr Gly Val Tyr Asn Pro Glu Ile Val Asp Asp Thr Val Tyr Ile Glu Thr Glu Thr Gin Leu Leu Asn Leu Leu Ala Gly Gin Thr Asn Pro Asp Asn Leu Ser Lys Thr Phe Val Leu Leu Asn Asp Ile Val Leu Thr Ser Asn Trp Thr Ala Ile Gly Ile Ala Pro Asn Glu Asp Glu Gly Ile Val Gly Val Pro Phe Thr Gly Val Phe Asp Gly Gin Gly Tyr Lys Ile Ser Gly Ile Ser Met Pro Gly Gly Gly Trp Asn Lys Gly Phe Phe Gly Tyr Ile Gly Thr Thr Gly Val Val Lys Asn Thr His Phe Glu Gly Asn Leu Glu Ala Asn Ala Trp Ser Gly Ala Leu Ala Ala Asn Asn Ser Gly Thr Ile Gin Asp Val Val Val Asp Ile Glu Val Tyr Val Trp Gly Asn Asn Gly Gly Ala Ile Val Glu His Asn His Gly Leu Leu Lys Asn Ile Val Val Leu Gly Lys Ala Val Ser Asp Ser Gly Pro Thr Ala Val Gly Leu Val Val Thr Asn Phe Gly Thr Leu Glu Asn Val Phe Ala Asn Ala Asp Thr Val Gly Thr Ala Asn Leu Val Ser Asn Gly 79d Ala Leu Ala Asp Asp Gly Lys His Ile Ile Ser Ala Gin Asp Phe Val Lys Ala Thr Thr Tyr Ala Asn Phe Asp Ser Ala Ile Trp Leu Ile Val Asp Gly Gin Val Pro Val Leu Ile Asn Glu Asp Thr Val Leu Pro Glu Thr Val Val Tyr Ile Glu Thr Glu Ala Glu Leu Leu Ser Leu Leu Ala Gly Gin Val Asp Pro Glu Ala Leu Ser Lys Thr Tyr Lys Leu Lys Asn Asp Ile Val Leu Thr Ser Asn Trp Thr Ala Ile Gly Ile Ala Pro Asn Glu Asp Glu Gly Ile Val Gly Val Pro Phe Thr Gly Val Phe Asp Gly Gin Gly Tyr Lys Ile Ser Gly Ile Ser Net Pro Gly Gly Gly Trp Asn Lys Gly Phe Phe Gly Tyr Ile Gly Thr Thr Gly Val Val Lys Asn Thr His Phe Glu Gly Asn Ile Glu Ala Asn Ala Trp Ser Gly Ala Leu Ala Ala Asn Asn Ser Gly Thr Ile Net Asp Val Val Val Asp Ile Glu Val Tyr Val Trp Gly Asn Asn Gly Gly Ala Ile Val Glu His Asn His Gly Leu Leu Lys Asn Ile Ile Val Leu Gly Lys Ala Val Ser Asp Gly Gly Pro Thr Val Val Gly Leu Val Val Thr Asn Phe Gly Thr Leu Glu Asp Val Tyr Ala Asn Val Asp Thr Val Gly Thr Leu Asn Leu Val Ser Phe Gly Ser Val Ala Asp Asp Gly Thr His Ile Ile Ser Ala Ser Asn Phe Val Lys Ala Glu Thr Tyr Ala Asn Phe Ser Ser Asp Val Trp Thr Ile Ile Asp Gly Ser Thr Pro Val Leu Lys Gin Ala <210> 3 <211> 2499 <212> DNA <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 3 atgcatttgg tgttgttgct aaaaagtaaa aaggacaaat atatgaaaaa aataagctta        60 ataatgattt ttctgctttc tatcctattg gtaagttgtg tagaaaaaga agaaccaaaa        120 tttgatccag ataaatatct agatttagag aatattgtat ttgatgattt tgataacgga        180 attgacccga atatgtgggt tattggtaat agtaagtggg gtgtaggtaa tggtggtgtc        240 atctatgaaa atgtccatta cacaaatgac ggtattgtag ttcttcaaac caatggtgac        300 ttgtatgatg gtccacttcg cggtattggt aatacccatg gcagacgtac aggtgcaatg        360 attacaacaa gagaagcact aggtcctggt agatttgaag tacgtatgcg tattatgcca        420 cgttttggtt caactactgc tatgtggact tactattatg ataatggtat gaaccatgaa        480 atagatatcg aaagtaacgt tgaaaatgac tttagaaaag tatggactac aaactggatt        540 agtttaacag aatatagtac tgtgtctaat accttagatt ttgcacaaaa tgattttgaa        600 tggcgtacat accgttttga ctggtttaca gatccaaaac gcattgatta ttatattgat        660 gaagtattag tttcatcaca atcttcttat gtaccagatc atgcaggaga atttaatatt        720 ggtaattggt ttccagatgc ttgggcaggt gtacctgatt ttgaaacaga ctatacctat        780 gtagactggt tcaaatatac accatttaaa gaacaaccat atacaccaac accggcaaat        840 aatcaaagtc ctgcaaactt ctatccatca gaaccaattg aacatccaat agcaaacctc        900 atttcaaatg caggttttga aacagatgct ccagcttggc gttatcctgt aactagtggt        960 79e gtggaactac tagaaggtga aggtttaaac ggatcaagag gaatctttgt tccacaaaat         1020 gatattgcat atcaatttgt cacaggatta gatgaaacct ttgaaatgac atttagtgca         1080 catgcaaaac tacctttaaa tggtagtgga tatgttttat tagagttcta cccagcagag         1140 acacaaaaaa ttgatcagta tatgattgag tttaactcaa gcgatgaaga ttttatagca         1200 gatacattct atggtaaaga atttaccttt aatgtacctc taggaactaa acgtgttgaa         1260 gtgtctttaa ttggaggaga ttctggtata tacttcgatg atttattctt taacctaact         1320 aaaaaaccca ggcccgaaat tgtagaagaa ggtgatgatg tgcaacgttt aaacatagat         1380 tttaaaaatg gtattgactc caatgtttgg gcagttgcaa atcaacgttg gggaggtaca         1440 catcatggtg gtgtaatctt ccaaaacgta cactacacag aagaaggtaa tttactcatt         1500 caagccaatg gtgattacta tgaaggtcca ttaaaaggtg ttgaacaaaa taatggaaaa         1560 cgcactgggg gagctatcta tactaaagaa gcatttggcc caggatcttt tgaagtaaaa         1620 gctaaaatca tgccacgttt tggggcaaca acagcatttt ggacatttaa ctacttagat         1680 ggtattaata gtgaaattga ttttgagttt aacgtaggca atgattttag tacagtttgg         1740 ttaaccaact ggttaaccga aacaaactat aacaactaca cccatcaaat ggatagtttc         1800 cataatgatg gaaactggca tatataccgt tttgaatggc atacactacc gacgcctcat         1860 attaaatact ttatcgatgg caaacttgca tatacagaac atactaaagt tccaacgatg         1920 tctgcaagat actggattgg tgtatggttt ccaaataact gggcaggaga tccaaacttt         1980 gaaacagatt atttagaagt tgaatatttc aaatatgagt cattcccgga tcatccgtat         2040 gttgttggtc caactggggc atcctctcca acagcatttt acccaacagc gccaataaaa         2100 aaaccagttt ctaacctttt accacacggt aatctagatt atgaaacagg ttatatgtta         2160 acaggggatg cagtgatttc aaatggtgaa ttgaaaactg gtttactagg cagtgctgag         2220 tctcttatta cagggttaaa tgatgccttt gaacttacat taaagcttaa agcaaaagcc         2280 tcaaataacg caaccgtgcg cattgagtat ttagataagg atttaaatgt gataagtggt         2340 gaagatatta ttgtatcaaa cttaaacgcg aatacattta caaactttac atccgtaatt         2400 aatctagtgg aaggcactag agccatcaat gtgatttttg agggaacaaa tatcacatat         2460 gatgacttat ttataaattt aacacacaag gtgaattga                                2499 <210> 4 <211> 832 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 4 Met His Leu Val Leu Leu Leu Lys Ser Lys Lys Asp Lys Tyr Met Lys Lys Ile Ser Leu Ile Met Ile Phe Leu Leu Ser Ile Leu Leu Val Ser Cys Val Glu Lys Glu Glu Pro Lys Phe Asp Pro Asp Lys Tyr Leu Asp Leu Glu Asn Ile Val Phe Asp Asp Phe Asp Asn Gly Ile Asp Pro Asn Met Trp Val Ile Gly Asn Ser Lys Trp Gly Val Gly Asn Gly Gly Val Ile Tyr Glu Asn Val His Tyr Thr Asn Asp Gly Ile Val Val Leu Gin Thr Asn Gly Asp Leu Tyr Asp Gly Pro Leu Arg Gly Ile Gly Asn Thr His Gly Arg Arg Thr Gly Ala Met Ile Thr Thr Arg Glu Ala Leu Gly Pro Gly Arg Phe Glu Val Arg Met Arg Ile Met Pro Arg Phe Gly Ser Thr Thr Ala Met Trp Thr Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asn Gly Met Asn His Glu Ile Asp Ile Glu Ser Asn Val Glu Asn Asp Phe Arg Lys Val Trp Thr Thr Asn Trp Ile Ser Leu Thr Glu Tyr Ser Thr Val Ser Asn Thr Leu Asp Phe Ala Gin Asn Asp Phe Glu Trp Arg Thr Tyr Arg Phe Asp Trp 79f Phe Thr Asp Pro Lys Arg Ile Asp Tyr Tyr Ile Asp Glu Val Leu Val Ser Ser Gin Ser Ser Tyr Val Pro Asp His Ala Gly Glu Phe Asn Ile Gly Asn Trp Phe Pro Asp Ala Trp Ala Gly Val Pro Asp Phe Glu Thr Asp Tyr Thr Tyr Val Asp Trp Phe Lys Tyr Thr Pro Phe Lys Glu Gin Pro Tyr Thr Pro Thr Pro Ala Asn Asn Gin Ser Pro Ala Asn Phe Tyr Pro Ser Glu Pro Ile Glu His Pro Ile Ala Asn Leu Ile Ser Asn Ala Gly Phe Glu Thr Asp Ala Pro Ala Trp Arg Tyr Pro Val Thr Ser Gly Val Glu Leu Leu Glu Gly Glu Gly Leu Asn Gly Ser Arg Gly Ile Phe Val Pro Gin Asn Asp Ile Ala Tyr Gin Phe Val Thr Gly Leu Asp Glu Thr Phe Glu Met Thr Phe Ser Ala His Ala Lys Leu Pro Leu Asn Gly Ser Gly Tyr Val Leu Leu Glu Phe Tyr Pro Ala Glu Thr Gin Lys Ile Asp Gin Tyr Met Ile Glu Phe Asn Ser Ser Asp Glu Asp Phe Ile Ala Asp Thr Phe Tyr Gly Lys Glu Phe Thr Phe Asn Val Pro Leu Gly Thr Lys Arg Val Glu Val Ser Leu Ile Gly Gly Asp Ser Gly Ile Tyr Phe Asp Asp Leu Phe Phe Asn Leu Thr Lys Lys Pro Arg Pro Glu Ile Val Glu Glu Gly Asp Asp Val Gin Arg Leu Asn Ile Asp Phe Lys Asn Gly Ile Asp Ser Asn Val Trp Ala Val Ala Asn Gin Arg Trp Gly Gly Thr His His Gly Gly Val Ile Phe Gin Asn Val His Tyr Thr Glu Glu Gly Asn Leu Leu Ile Gin Ala Asn Gly Asp Tyr Tyr Glu Gly Pro Leu Lys Gly Val Glu Gin Asn Asn Gly Lys Arg Thr Gly Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Lys Glu Ala Phe Gly Pro Gly Ser Phe Glu Val Lys Ala Lys Ile Met Pro Arg Phe Gly Ala Thr Thr Ala Phe Trp Thr Phe Asn Tyr Leu Asp Gly Ile Asn Ser Glu Ile Asp Phe Glu Phe Asn Val Gly Asn Asp Phe Ser Thr Val Trp Leu Thr Asn Trp Leu Thr Glu Thr Asn Tyr Asn Asn Tyr Thr His Gin Met Asp Ser Phe His Asn Asp Gly Asn Trp His Ile Tyr Arg Phe Glu Trp His Thr Leu Pro Thr Pro His Ile Lys Tyr Phe Ile Asp Gly Lys Leu Ala Tyr Thr Glu His Thr Lys Val Pro Thr Met Ser Ala Arg Tyr Trp Ile Gly Val Trp Phe Pro Asn Asn Trp Ala Gly Asp Pro Asn Phe Glu Thr Asp Tyr Leu Glu Val Glu Tyr Phe Lys Tyr Glu Ser Phe Pro Asp His Pro Tyr Val Val Gly Pro Thr Gly Ala Ser 79g Ser Pro Thr Ala Phe Tyr Pro Thr Ala Pro Ile Lys Lys Pro Val Ser Asn Leu Leu Pro His Gly Asn Leu Asp Tyr Glu Thr Gly Tyr Net Leu Thr Gly Asp Ala Val Ile Ser Asn Gly Glu Leu Lys Thr Gly Leu Leu Gly Ser Ala Glu Ser Leu Ile Thr Gly Leu Asn Asp Ala Phe Glu Leu Thr Leu Lys Leu Lys Ala Lys Ala Ser Asn Asn Ala Thr Val Arg Ile Glu Tyr Leu Asp Lys Asp Leu Asn Val Ile Ser Gly Glu Asp Ile Ile Val Ser Asn Leu Asn Ala Asn Thr Phe Thr Asn Phe Thr Ser Val Ile Asn Leu Val Glu Gly Thr Arg Ala Ile Asn Val Ile Phe Glu Gly Thr Asn Ile Thr Tyr Asp Asp Leu Phe Ile Asn Leu Thr His Lys Val Asn <210> 5 <211> 2820 <212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence <220> <223> EGT optimized nucleotide sequence <400> 5 atgaaaaaaa tcatcaccat gatgctgctg gttctgagcc tggttctggt ggcgtgtacc         60 ccgtctgaag aaccgccgac caccgttccg gatgtggaaa gcattgaatt taacatgacc         120 agcaccaccg tggcaccggg cgaacatacc ctggtggcga aagcgctgcc ggaaggcagc         180 aaccagcaga ttcgttttag cattcagggc attgtgagcg gcgtgagcat taccggcgat         240 aaactgaacg tgggcaacgc cgtggaagat ggcatgaaat ttaccgttgt ggcgaccagc         300 gtgtatgacc cgaccattcg tgccaccctg gaatttaccg tggttaacgt tggcgtggaa         360 gtggtggaaa ttcgtaccga agaagaactg cgcgcgattc ataccaacga aggcggcctg         420 agcctgagct atgtgctgat gaacgatatt gaactgaccg ccccgtggac cccgattggc         480 attgccgaag tggaaaccga tagcggccag attattccgg gcaccccgtt taacggcatt         540 tttaacggca acggctttac cattagcggc attctggtgg aaagcgaaga accgctgttt         600 aacgccggct tttttgccca gattggcgcc accgccattg tgaaaaacac cacctttgaa         660 ggcattgtga acgccaccgg ctggagcggc ggcattgccg gcattaacga aggcctgatt         720 gaaaacgttg ttagcaacgt tcgtgtgacc gtgaccggca ccagcgccgg tagcctggtg         780 agcgtgaacc gtggcctgat tcagtatgcc tatggcattg gcaaagtggt gagcgaaacc         840 aacccgaaca ccagcggtcg tagcgccggt ctggtggtgg cgaacgatgg cagcatgatt         900 gaagtgtatg gcgattatca ggcgctgggc accccgaact ataccgcctt tagcccgagc         960 accaacccga tgtatatgct gccgaccgtg gatatgaaaa ccagcagcac ctgggcgagc         1020 tttgatgccg atgtgtggta tatcgaaaac ggcacctatc cgctgctgaa acatgaaggc         1080 tttgtgccgc cggttattgt gccggaactg ggcattacca ttaaaaacac cgaactgaac         1140 catgatgtgg aagtgagcag cgaactgcag attaacgccg aagtgattaa cccggaaggt         1200 agcgaagtta ttgtttatgc cctgaaagaa gcggtggcgg gcgttgccat tagcgaaacc         1260 ggcctggtga cctttgatat taccaccatt gcggcgaact ttagctttac cgtggtggtg         1320 accattgatg gcaccgaagt gagcgccgaa aaaaccttta ccggcgtgta taacccggaa         1380 attgtggatg ataccgtcta tatcgaaacc gaaacccagc tgctgaacct gctggcgggc         1440 cagaccaacc cggataacct gagcaaaacc tttgtgctgc tgaatgacat tgtgctgacc         1500 agcaactgga ccgccattgg tattgccccg aacgaagatg aaggtattgt tggcgttccg         1560 tttaccggtg tgtttgatgg ccagggctac aaaattagcg gtattagcat gccgggtggc         1620 ggctggaaca aaggcttttt tggctatatc ggcaccaccg gcgtggtgaa aaatacccat         1680 ttcgaaggta acctggaagc gaacgcctgg tctggcgccc tggcggcgaa caacagcggc         1740 accattcagg atgtggtggt ggatatcgaa gtgtatgttt ggggcaacaa cggcggtgcc         1800 attgtggaac ataaccatgg cctgctgaaa aacattgtgg tgctgggtaa agcggtgagc         1860 5&66&6q3PPDPP5OD qqq.6.6qbqbp BEqqp.6.6qq-e. gq.63Do5aEce Bqpoppboo.6 qbppE.poyqy p-evEDD-eqpq EDE,BqD'EEPD BEDE,BDTepq qp-eq.e.e.e.TTE, Tea5DoDop6 opEqopopTe obEcTepEcqqq oboTeqqq.eq pobbqp-epoE. E.Tebopygpo 0081                                                                     qqqpb-eqp.6.6 Te5PDTeDDO POPqOPPDPP TeqOPPODPP PBDOPEc4a6.6 qOPPDDRE4D OPGT                                                                      .6.6q.6gEop.e3 Ereqqqq-efop pa6.6.6gEopp oqq-epbqqqg yboTepp6a6 poppogpobb Te.E.E.q3qp4D ppqqqpopE6 qqqq.636.6op poppobqbEcq qqa6a6poBq POTePPPEOE.   ppvEcm6ppEcl qqaEceqBEED 3obbqqq6a6 PPBPPPOD-eq pqqq-eop6q6 Bobboopqbp 0991     vvvohboppo PPBPOPPE.qq 5b6                                      5c Eopqbbp-ebq Pqq.eqq-ebob BoppEoBEceo 0091        qq-ebqa6qop ppoBbppEcev BooPTeqopo qqbapvEcepq qqqqpbqEq.E.  BoBbqpoTeo bovab6ob66 BqqbaEceoTe p6a65qBED6 .6.6q.6q.6oppp aeTe5aTea6 BOPPPPPOT4 Ta6qTeopp.6 qogEoEceoqq Bop6opEa6.6 ppEpp66.36q Tev-eBbooqb OBOOPPPPPP OZET                                                                      DOPEc4D3PPD qqoqq.6qopp BopEcqqqq-eq qq-eobbafteg pbobbobbqg pbqopEce.6.46 pp6BgfigEop ppoppobEibq obooggbopp qqqoaeqqqp pEceppDaEcTe qaqqopplpb opboTeqqqg paepEcTebob pa6poppoqq ppBaTeBTeq PqBPDDPEqq PPPP6PODOP oiipp.6.6a6600q pqqqq-e-E.E.64 obwEc4EcTeq a6.6a6pq6ED ppEci.D6DD.6.4 DUPP006qP0 opEafreqqqo op.E.Tepp6T4 goopppEcTeb Eqop.6.6pop6 qbqqq.EcepTe lopEclqpq-26 OZOT                                                                      3pp6po63o5 q6qqqqq.ea6 B.3.6opEcep6.6 opp6qoa6bp p5a6.6.e.e.6.6q o6qopp.6.6q.E.   DEZDEceDDRE, .36.6DDTeggE. obEcTeobBoo DDETeEpopP pEoggp6E,Do Eppppb-eqqp BqopppooBq TebooTeopp 6.4Te63opp.E. pEceEpoTegg qqapp63663 33Ece.6P33PP 0t8 TeR63.6.6330 OPBOODOPTe .4.6p36p3ppE. pppqqgboop opopTeppqq .4.66T4p6B4.6 opqoopTeqq. pEooppp6qo, qqp.6.6opqq6 D6Ecea6.6.6qo a6qp.6.6opqq .4.66qoppoBB OEL                                                                      qq-eoppqqqp RE,DE.BoaEcTe oTebboo&q.6 TewEcep6p6 poofreofrebq .6613.6g6pp6 TeEcqqEopqo pqq.e,E.D.TegE. opppEopTa6 po-eqq.466T3 PE.qqqq.6pqr, qpopgEobBq ppBqqqE.3 ppEcepopEqq qq-e6.6q333p OPPDEce6q6D OPOE.Pq-eq-e-e BoopEcqopap OtS                                                                       oTa6.6qoppo 3p33p66qqq Eceppgboqqq Tebopppp66 qE,OPPOBPPP BoTeqpbqqp 08t PPEOPOOPPE, Tea6E3ppqp .6q-eqqpqqpq oppa6m6Teo obooppopob pa6.6qqqq.63 OZt      633.6Te4Te3 636; 363;; 6ppEcT4T463 36.6.6333666 3353            6;6 opopopegTe EqppoBobbo 3pgEoT6336 BTeDOOPOPP obbqq.ea6.6; .63.6qp63336 EcTeBTEIBlp Te.636E3pp3 op6va6qp61 abg&TTeof,E. TPBOPPOOPO pggpooqEop E.E.P.6TeTi.Te OtE                                                                       5363653E63 ppo66.6.4.63.6 6.6.6TeppoEce oppobblqp5 ;666q6q-eop pEopTeaqqp a6.63.e.eqp63 qq.4pE.T2.63; qqq633e3pp preB6gaTe6.6 goopTevvqp 63 ;63;; OZT                                                                       PPP633PP6P PEcePPPP.66; 636 666 6qa6goqq-eq oq.6qa6qoqg qqq-ebTeaTe .6.433.6-e33ep PPPPPEc4POP TePPqP6PPP PPPDEPPPPE, goBga6q3.6; .6.6.4oTe36Te 9 <00t> apuanbas GpTqoaTonu pazTuiTqdo Loa <Ezz> <OEE> aDuanIDGS 1PT0TgTqJV <ETE>  Na <ETZ>  60SE <TTE>  9 <OTE>   ppq63.6.6p3p pp.6q3.6q.6.63 333v3Ece356 Te6T3Pggpo op.6.6q6.4.6qp .63.6-ea6pqq;   Tepoo&Teqo 3pp-a6535er, pqq.6qqq3pp 3.6-epo.636-eg TepTelpoop pa6EcTeEcTe6 OOLZ                                                                      33.6E1.536p3 55qqwEce.6; BawTepEgo oppo.66;;E3 3P 5;363 popEcTeq6q.6 0t9Z                                                                      gp6ep.66336 3pa66oTTTe pEopaq&qqb 5qoa6.6.5T6.6 gE,EopBooTE. 636.6Te6go;   qq.EopEcep-eq 56.63D.43.6q; PDTeTePPPP aqa6gogEZD POTePDPOPP E.T3.63Te336 OESE                                                                      3.66q56Tepq pp36.6.6.63.6; E3pgglEcep.6 gq.eqp.6D.4.6; q5qq.6.Te.6.6; yqq-epopa6E. 09tZ                                                                      3043P23PE3 3633563333 .63.6.63Ece.6.6; poE,TePBoae. p6qTeTe2q.E. .6.6pEcqqq3p3 00tZ                                                                      WPOPPPPPq q.6q1.6;6633 poprobbqqt, 3u-43663333 qq.4.6.6-eppqp pB5qq56.1.E.E. OtEE                                                                      3E653363E-4 3q4q-e3E6g3 qqweppqpq g55EceDg.6.63 P53'4;6;636 EoppoggEop 34.63563q.63 3e36E6pEcTe BE.E.B.TepEop -4353.1.-e36.63 Tabobbopbb qp.e.egogoop ()ZEE                                                                     6136g633el p63pp-eppEc4 OPPPOPqD0P pp-egog&43.6 36-epaE33Te .6.6.46Ece3gE6 535633633; 34.6;36.43.2.2 .6.63EcepE33p p-e6qTeTeg.6 T6.6.4.633ppp 5533E33636 popTeEcepEo ppqq-e&qpq; .6.6335;B5e3 3666663 Te.6135EcTqg p3363Eceqp6 q333pp33.63 Pq03P33PE3 .6-eppEcq5qgq 3eE6p333E3 BeoqpqTeop 3ppp36ErTa6 3e.E.E.3.6.6q33 36.4.6.63Pp36 p.6gE.E.g33pp DoBooPDBEZ gboopTeboo 63pp336.4.3;   BgboppppE.E. qopopp&Eqq qoppDopqqb BT6.6qoq6a6 qboDE.DopBo 3gE.535egp.6 gaaaccgact atctggaagt ggaatacttc aaatacgaaa gctttccgga tcatccgtat         2040 gttgttggcc cgaccggtgc ctctagcccg accgcctttt atccgaccgc cccgattaaa         2100 aaaccggtga gcaacctgct gccgcatggc aacctggatt atgaaaccgg ctatatgctg         2160 accggcgatg ccgtgattag caatggcgaa ctgaaaaccg gcctgctggg cagcgccgaa         2220 agcctgatta ccggcctgaa cgatgccttt gaactgaccc tgaaactgaa agcgaaagcg         2280 agcaacaacg ccaccgttcg tattgaatac ctggataaag atctgaacgt tatcagcggc         2340 gaagatatta ttgtgagcaa tctgaacgcc aacaccttta ccaactttac cagcgtgatt         2400 aacctggttg aaggcacccg tgccattaac gttattttcg aaggcacgaa cattacctat         2460 gatgacctgt ttattaacct gacccacaaa gtgaactaat aagtcgacg                     2509 <210> 7 <211> 438 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 7 Met Lys Val Lys Met Ile Val Ala Ala Val Ala Val Ala Gly Leu Thr Ala Thr Ala Ala Asn Ala Ala Asp Asn Gly Lys Leu Gln Leu Gln Ile Asn Gln Leu Lys Ala Gln His Thr Gln Leu Gln Gln Gln Val Ala Asn Leu Gln Gly Gln Gly Gln Thr Thr Gly Ala Val His Val Gly Ala Val Gly Gly Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Asn Asn Tyr Asp Gly Arg Gly Leu Asp Leu Leu Lys Ser Leu Ala Lys Ala Gly Ser Asn Ala Pro Leu Leu Thr Ile Gly Gly Thr Leu Glu Ala Asp Ala Gln Met Asn Arg Asn Gly Asn Val Gly Ser Gly Ser Thr Ser Gly Asp Pro Ser Gly Leu Asn Tyr Thr Asp Gly Thr Ser Ser Ser Ala Phe Tyr Leu Asp Thr Ala Arg Ile Asp Ile Leu Ala His Val Asn Asp Trp Val Asn Gly Glu Ile Ser Tyr Asp Leu Asn Gly Asp Ser Gly Leu His Thr Gly Ser Leu Leu Val Gly Asn Leu Asn Gln Leu Pro Val Tyr Gly Gln Ile Gly Lys Phe Tyr Pro Asp Ala Gly Leu Phe Glu Leu Ala Ser Asp Asp Val Tyr Ser Ser Ser Leu Val Lys Arg Tyr Phe Arg Pro Asp Ala Gln Asn Gly Ala Ser Val Gly Phe Tyr Lys Ala Gly Leu His Thr Ser Leu Thr Ala Phe Lys Thr Ser Ala Pro Gln Ala Asn Ala Ala Asn Tyr Asn Gln Ala Thr Ser Asp Trp Ser Ala Gln Ala Asp Tyr Thr Phe Asn Ala Gly Gln Val Asn Ala Thr Ile Gly Ala Gly Tyr Leu Ser Asn Met Val Asn Thr Asn Asp Ser Phe Thr Ala Thr Gly Ala Gly Thr Gly Thr Gln Lys Asp Arg Leu Pro Met Ala Asn Val Ser Ala Lys Ile Gly Phe Gly Pro Phe Glu Ala Leu Ala Thr Tyr Ala Gln Thr Leu Lys Gly Leu Ala Asn Thr Thr Gly Gly Thr 79j Thr Lys Leu Lys Ala Phe Asp Leu Glu Gly Ala Tyr His Phe Gin Ala Val Lys Pro Met Thr Val Met Leu Gly Tyr Ser Arg Thr Tyr Gly Phe Asp Lys Val Gly Pro Val Asp Gin Phe Ile Asp Gly Asn Thr Ala Ile Thr Ile Asn Asn Lys Lys Asp Gin Trp Leu Leu Gly Val Asn Ser Glu Val Phe Lys Asn Thr Thr Val Gly Leu Glu Tyr Ala Arg Val Gly Gin Leu Asp Ser Thr Gly Thr Asp Thr Asn Arg Tyr Asn Val Leu Thr Ala Asp Met Thr Val Lys Phe <210> 8 <211> 416 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 8 Ala Asp Asn Gly Lys Leu Gin Leu Gin Ile Asn Gin Leu Lys Ala Gin His Thr Gin Leu Gin Gin Gin Val Ala Asn Leu Gin Gly Gin Gly Gin Thr Thr Gly Ala Val His Val Gly Ala Val Gly Gly Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Asn Asn Tyr Asp Gly Arg Gly Leu Asp Leu Leu Lys Ser Leu Ala Lys Ala Gly Ser Asn Ala Pro Leu Leu Thr Ile Gly Gly Thr Leu Glu Ala Asp Ala Gin Met Asn Arg Asn Gly Asn Val Gly Ser Gly Ser Thr Ser Gly Asp Pro Ser Gly Leu Asn Tyr Thr Asp Gly Thr Ser Ser Ser Ala Phe Tyr Leu Asp Thr Ala Arg Ile Asp Ile Leu Ala His Val Asn Asp Trp Val Asn Gly Glu Ile Ser Tyr Asp Leu Asn Gly Asp Ser Gly Leu His Thr Gly Ser Leu Leu Val Gly Asn Leu Asn Gin Leu Pro Val Tyr Gly Gin Ile Gly Lys Phe Tyr Pro Asp Ala Gly Leu Phe Glu Leu Ala Ser Asp Asp Val Tyr Ser Ser Ser Leu Val Lys Arg Tyr Phe Arg Pro Asp Ala Gin Asn Gly Ala Ser Val Gly Phe Tyr Lys Ala Gly Leu His Thr Ser Leu Thr Ala Phe Lys Thr Ser Ala Pro Gin Ala Asn Ala Ala Asn Tyr Asn Gin Ala Thr Ser Asp Trp Ser Ala Gin Ala Asp Tyr Thr Phe Asn Ala Gly Gin Val Asn Ala Thr Ile Gly Ala Gly Tyr Leu Ser Asn Met Val Asn Thr Asn Asp Ser Phe Thr Ala Thr Gly Ala Gly Thr Gly Thr Gin Lys Asp Arg Leu Pro Met Ala Asn Val Ser Ala Lys Ile Gly Phe Gly Pro Phe Glu Ala Leu Ala Thr Tyr Ala Gin Thr Leu 79k Lys Gly Leu Ala Asn Thr Thr Gly Gly Thr Thr Lys Leu Lys Ala Phe Asp Leu Glu Gly Ala Tyr His Phe Gin Ala Val Lys Pro Met Thr Val Met Leu Gly Tyr Ser Arg Thr Tyr Gly Phe Asp Lys Val Gly Pro Val Asp Gin Phe Ile Asp Gly Asn Thr Ala Ile Thr Ile Asn Asn Lys Lys Asp Gin Trp Leu Leu Gly Val Asn Ser Glu Val Phe Lys Asn Thr Thr Val Gly Leu Glu Tyr Ala Arg Val Gly Gin Leu Asp Ser Thr Gly Thr Asp Thr Asn Arg Tyr Asn Val Leu Thr Ala Asp Met Thr Val Lys Phe <210> 9 <211> 367 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 9 Met Ala Thr Leu Ala Val Gin Arg Glu Val Tyr Met Ser Asp Pro Asp Asp Ile Ala Val Ile Leu Tyr Thr Ser Gly Thr Thr Gly Gin Pro Lys Gly Ala Met Leu Ser His Arg Ala Leu Val Gin Asn Cys Ile Asp Leu Asn Leu Cys Trp Gly Phe Thr Asp Ser Asp Val Leu Leu His Thr Leu Pro Leu Phe His Val His Gly Leu Phe Phe Ala Leu His Ser Val Leu Tyr Ala Ser Ala Ser Met Ile Leu Gin Ala Lys Phe Asp Pro Met Glu Val Ile Ile Ser Leu Ile Gin Ala Thr Val Phe Met Gly Val Pro Thr Tyr Tyr Thr Arg Leu Leu Lys Glu Ala Glu Phe Thr Gly Ser Arg Ala Ala Gin Val Arg Leu Phe Ile Ser Gly Ser Ala Pro Leu His Glu Lys Thr Phe Gin Gly Phe Tyr Gin Arg Thr Gly Lys Thr Leu Val Glu Arg Tyr Gly Met Ser Glu Thr Gly Ile Asn Thr Ser Asn Pro Leu His Gly Glu Arg Lys Phe Gly Thr Val Gly Thr Ala Leu Glu His Val Thr Val Arg Val Val Asp Glu Val Ser Glu Lys Val Leu Met Pro Gly Gin Thr Gly Glu Val Gin Val Gin Gly Arg His Leu Phe Ser Gly Tyr Trp Gin Lys Glu Asp Gin Thr Asp Gly Ala Phe Thr Cys Asp Gin Phe Phe Lys Thr Gly Asp Leu Gly Tyr Leu Asp Glu Gin Gly Tyr Leu Thr Leu Val Gly Arg Val Lys Asp Met Ile Ile Ser Gly Gly Leu Asn Ile Tyr Pro Lys Glu Ile Glu Thr Ala Ile Asp Arg Val Thr Gly Val Asn Glu Ser Ala Val Val Gly Val Ala His Glu Asp Leu Gly Glu Gly Val Val Ala Val Val Val Leu Gin Asp Asn Ala Asn Met Leu Ala Glu His Ile Ile Ala Tyr Cys Lys Ala Ser Leu Ala Asp Phe Lys Cys Pro Lys Lys Val Val Phe Ile Asp Gin Leu Pro Arg Asn Thr Met Gly Lys Val Gin Lys Asn Gin Leu Arg Gin Gin Tyr Gin Ala Ile Phe Ala Asp Ala His <210> 10 <211> 39 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 10 Met Cys Lys Ile Pro Thr Glu Val Ala Thr Leu Thr Ala Glu Leu Asn Lys Arg Leu Arg Leu Asn Met Phe Ala Cys Leu Tyr Ile Asp Phe Ile Pro Pro Cys Ile Asn Arg Tyr <210> 11 <211> 127 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 11 Met Lys Asn Leu Ile Tyr Ala Gin Arg Leu Leu Tyr Phe Ala Val Leu Ile Ala Val Ile Val Thr Phe Val Gin Pro Phe Leu Met Pro Ile Lys Leu Ala Asp Val Pro Leu Met Pro Leu Val Val Ala Ser Ile Tyr Ser Leu Ile Phe Ala Ala Ala Leu Ala Leu Ala Ala Tyr Lys Leu Pro Ser Lys Ala Gly Trp Pro Arg Phe Leu Leu Val Ile Leu Phe Ile Gly Asp Ala Met Pro Ala Val Lys Asn Trp Leu Val Leu Trp His Thr Thr Glu Leu Phe Ala Ile Ile Tyr Leu Met Lys Leu Met Leu Met Leu Ala Ala Ile Leu Leu Ser Leu Ser Lys Leu Ala Arg Asp Phe Tyr Lys Cys <210> 12 <211> 74 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 12 Met Asp Asn Ala Ser Phe His Lys Ser Lys Gly Val Lys Glu Ala Ile Glu Asp Ala Gly Cys His Leu Leu Phe Leu Pro Pro Tyr Ser Pro Asp Leu Asn Pro Ile Glu His Val Trp Ser Pro Leu Lys Asn Arg Val Arg 79m Met Lys Leu Asp Gin Asp Glu Ile Asn Leu Glu Thr Ala Leu Ser Gin Val Met Lys Ser Met Ser Glu Thr Ile Arg <210> 13 <211> 81 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 13 Met Pro Ser Pro Tyr Ser Tyr Asp Leu Arg Ile Arg Ala Leu Lys Met Ile Asp Glu Gly Ile Pro Ile Thr Gin Ile Ser Lys Leu Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Leu His Arg Trp Lys Asn Arg Arg Asp His Thr Gly Asp Val Lys Ala Arg Phe Gly Tyr Gin Thr Gly Tyr Asn His Lys Ile Ser Asp Met Lys Glu Phe Gin Lys Phe Ile Asp Arg Glu Phe Pro Gly Ser <210> 14 <211> 319 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 14 Leu Lys Ser Gin Lys Pro Pro Gly Asn Leu Thr Tyr Asn Leu Ser Ala Pro Trp Ser Gin Leu Met Ala Leu Met Ser Pro Arg Lys Ser Leu Ala Arg Leu Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Gin Ser Gly Asp Phe Val Glu Lys Gly Arg Pro Leu Val Gin Leu Asp Asp Arg Thr Glu Gin Ala Asn Leu Leu Gln Tyr Lys Ala Lys Leu Lys Leu Asp Gin Leu Thr Tyr Asp Arg Asp Arg Ser Leu Leu Lys Lys Asn Ala Ile Ser Arg Gin Asp Val Asp Thr Ala Leu Thr Ser Leu Glu Gin Thr Lys Ala Gin Met Leu Ala Thr Glu Val Ser Ile Ser Gin Lys Leu Ile Arg Ala Pro Phe Ser Gly Lys Ile Gly Ile Arg Asn Val Asn Leu Gly Gin Tyr Ile Ser Pro Gly Thr Asn Ile Val Ser Leu Gin Ser Ile Asn Pro Leu His Val Asn Phe Ser Leu Pro Gin Glu Asp Met Asn Lys Ile Lys Leu Gly Gin Lys Ile Ser Ala His Val Asp Thr Phe Ala Gly Arg Glu Phe Thr Gly Thr Ile Thr Ala Met Asn Ser Glu Val Asp Ser Asn Thr Arg Thr Ile Glu Ile Gin Ala Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Lys His Glu Leu Tyr Pro Gly Met Phe Thr Thr 79n Val Gin Val Tyr Leu Pro Val Leu Pro Lys Val Leu Thr Leu Pro His Thr Ala Val Thr Tyr Thr Leu Tyr Gly Asn Ser Val Tyr Leu Ile Gin Leu Asn Gly Lys Lys Asn Gln Gin Gly Glu Pro Thr Gly Thr Val Thr Arg Ile Ser Ile Gin Thr Gly Asp Gin Arg Ser Asn Thr Val Val Ile Asn Lys Gly Leu Lys Ala Gly Asp Leu Ile Val Asp Gly Gly Gin Leu Lys Leu Glu Asn Gly Ala Ala Ile Ala Leu Lys Asn Thr Thr Gin <210> 15 <211> 572 <212> PRT <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 15 Met Val Leu Ala Ile Gly Leu Val Val Asp Asp Ala Ile Ile Val Val Glu Asn Val His Arg His Ile Glu Glu Gly Lys Gin Pro Phe Asp Ala Ala Leu Ile Gly Ala Arg Glu Ile Ala Ser Pro Val Ile Ala Met Thr Ile Thr Leu Ala Ala Val Tyr Ala Pro Ile Ala Phe Val Gly Gly Ile Thr Gly Ala Leu Phe Lys Glu Phe Ala Leu Thr Leu Ala Ala Ala Val Ile Val Ser Gly Val Ile Ala Leu Thr Leu Ser Pro Met Met Cys Ser Lys Leu Leu Val Ala Asp Asn Ala Asn Gly Gly Leu Ala His Trp Leu Asp Arg Gin Phe Leu Arg Leu Gin Gin Arg Tyr Glu Arg Ile Leu His His Thr Leu Glu His Arg Pro Val Val Leu Thr Phe Gly Leu Ile Ile Leu Val Gly Ile Phe Gly Met Leu Lys Met Thr Gin Lys Gin Leu Ala Pro His Glu Asp Gin Gly Phe Leu Ile Thr Phe Ala Ser Ala Pro Lys Tyr Ala Asn Ile Asn Tyr Val Glu Lys Tyr Ser Glu Glu Phe Ala Lys Ile Tyr Lys Ser Phe Pro Ala Ile Ala Asp Tyr Phe Ile Ile Asn Thr Thr Gly Ala Gly Thr Phe Pro Ser Gin Val Thr Ser Gly Ala Val Leu Lys Pro Trp Arg Asp Arg Ser Met Thr Thr Met Gin Leu Gin Pro Leu Leu Gin His Lys Leu Asn Gin Ile Thr Gly Leu Gin Ala Gin Ala Ile Gin Met Pro Ala Leu Pro Gly Pro Asp Gly Met Pro Ile Gin Phe Val Leu Thr Ser Thr Ala Asp Tyr Ser Val Leu Asn Asn Val Met Thr Lys Phe Lys Ala Ala Ala Asp Lys Ser Gly Leu Phe Leu Phe Ser Ser Ser Asp Leu Lys Phe Asn Lys Pro Lys Leu Asn Ile Ala Ile Asp Arg Ala Lys Ala Ala Gln Met Gly Ile Thr Met Gln Gln Ile Gly Ser Thr Leu Ser Thr Leu Leu Ser Gly Gly Lys Val Asn Tyr Phe Ser Leu Asp Gly Arg Ser Tyr Lys Val Ile Pro Gln Leu Ala Asp Asn Glu Arg Leu Thr Pro Gln Gln Leu Asn Asn Asn Tyr Ile Lys Thr Ala Ala Gly Ala Leu Ile Pro Leu Ser Thr Leu Ile Thr Leu Ser Thr Ser Ile Glu Pro Gly Thr Leu Asn Gln Phe Gln Gln Leu Asn Ser Ala Thr Leu Ser Ala Val Ala Met Pro Gly His Thr Asp Thr Glu Ala Leu Asn Phe Leu Lys Ala Gln Ala Thr Lys Leu Met Pro Lys Gly Met Ser Tyr Asn Phe Ser Gly Gln Ser Arg Thr Leu Val Gln Glu Gly Asn Ala Leu Ile Tyr Thr Phe Phe Phe Ala Leu Ile Met Ile Phe Leu Val Leu Ala Ala Gln Phe Glu Ser Phe Arg Asp Pro Phe Ile Ile Met Phe Thr Val Pro Met Ala Ile Phe Gly Ala Ala Ile Pro Met Ala Phe Gly Trp Thr Ser Leu Asn Ile Tyr Thr Glu Ile Gly Leu Val Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Ile Thr Lys His Gly Ile Leu Met Val Gln Phe Ala Asn Asp Leu Gln Glu Gln Glu Gly Arg Asp Ile Arg Ser Ala Ile Glu His Ala Ala Gly Met Arg Leu Arg Pro Ile Leu Met Thr Thr Ala Ala Met Val Val Gly <210> 16 <211> 2092 <212> DNA <213> Piscirickettsia salmonis <400> 16 ccaagaacta tcaaaaacta tataggcaaa gtataaagtc tgaagcttaa cctttgctta        60 aatgtacatc aggcttaagg tgatttctgt tgagtatttt cagagtctta agctcaattt        120 aatctttctt aaggttgaaa acaggctaaa atcaacattt tgataaaatt attaattttt        180 ttttattgtt cttttttaat cggtttttat cctaatttga tagatagtta tcgaaattca        240 ataagttttg tttttaattg aatttttttt acgagtttgg gttttacaaa gtgaatttac        300 ctggttatag tagccccagt tgcttaatag cacttaaatg tgtatccaga taaaaacaag        360 ttagggtaaa aagaatgaaa gtaaaaatga ttgttgcagc tgtagctgtt gcaggtttaa        420 cagcgactgc cgcaaatgcc gctgataatg gtaagcttca attacaaatc aaccaattga        480 aggcgcaaca cactcaactt caacagcaag ttgctaatct gcaaggtcaa ggccaaacta        540 ctggtgccgt tcacgttggc gctgttggtg gtgaactaat ctctgaaaat aactacgatg        600 gtcgtggctt agatcttctt aaatcattag cgaaagcagg cagcaatgca ccgttattaa        660 ctattggtgg tacgttagaa gctgatgcgc aaatgaaccg taacggtaat gttggatctg        720 gttctacttc tggtgaccct tctggcctta actatactga tggaactagc agttctgcat        780 tctatttaga tactgcacgt attgatatct tagcgcatgt gaatgactgg gttaacggtg        840 aaatctcgta tgacttaaat ggtgatagtg gtcttcacac tggtagcctt ttagtgggta        900 acctcaatca attaccagtt tatggtcaaa tcggtaaatt ctacccagat gcaggtttgt        960 ttgaattagc tagtgatgat gtttattctt ctagcttagt caagcgttat ttccgtccag        1020 atgcgcaaaa tggtgcatct gtaggcttct ataaagcagg cttacatact tctttaactg        1080 catttaaaac gtctgctcca caagctaatg ctgctaacta taaccaagca actagtgatt        1140 ggtctgcaca agcggattac acttttaatg caggtcaagt caatgccact ataggtgcag        1200 79p gttacttatc taatatggtg aataccaatg acagcttcac tgcaacaggt gcaggaactg        1260 gtacacaaaa agatcggcta ccgatggcta atgtaagcgc taagattggc tttggtccat        1320 ttgaagccct tgctacttat gctcaaacat taaaaggttt ggcgaatact acaggtggta        1380 caacgaagtt gaaagccttt gatttagaag gtgcttacca cttccaagct gtgaagccga        1440 tgactgtgat gttaggttat agccgtacat atggctttga taaggttgga cctgttgatc        1500 agtttattga tggtaatact gcgattacta tcaataacaa aaaagaccaa tggttattgg        1560 gtgtaaactc tgaagtattt aagaacacaa cggttggtct tgagtatgcg cgtgtaggtc        1620 agcttgatag cacaggtact gacactaacc gctacaacgt attgactgcg gatatgactg        1680 ttaagttcta atttaagagc tttaaagttt tcaaaaaggc gctgcggcgc ctttttttat        1740 gggcgttaat tattggtaat gtaggctagt atttaaattt gtgagtgatg agagatgaaa        1800 aatttaatct atgcacagcg tttgctttat tttgccgtat tgattgcggt gattgtcacc        1860 tttgttcagc catttctaat gccgattaag cttgctgatg tgcctttaat gccgctcgtg        1920 gtcgcttcga tttattcctt gatttttgct gcagctttag cattagctgc atataaatta        1980 ccgagcaaag ctggttggcc gcggtttttg ttggtgattt tatttattgg ggatgcgatg        2040 cctgcggtaa aaaactggct agtgctttgg catacgacgg agctttttgc ga                2092  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
