
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Radiation hardness filamentous fungi M30 and the application in absorption cadmium biological treatment thereof 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to environmental organism Treatment process field, be specifically related to a kind of radiation hardness filamentous fungi and in absorption
Application in terms of heavy metal cadmium. 
 
 
 Background technology 
 According to statistics, the heavy metal that the whole world is discharged in environment every year is up to millions of tons, and also is increasing year by year.In recent years
Coming, China's heavy metal pollution of soil event takes place frequently, and not only constitutes a serious threat with agricultural product quality to ploughing, the most directly compromises
The common people are healthy, affect social stability. 
 Cadmium is wide variety of heavy metal, is also the extremely strong environmental pollution element of toxic.Cadmium compounds has bigger
Fat-soluble, bioconcentration and toxicity, its accumulation in human body can destroy skeleton and hemopoietic system, causes anemia, kidney
Infringements etc., its animal migration is relatively strong, easy accumulation absorbed by crops.Exceed standard due to Cadmium in Soil and cadmium pollution causes " cadmium rice " thing
Part, causes the very big panic of society.At present, the cadmium 3.9 ten thousand tons that the whole world is discharged in environment every year.China is by heavy metals such as cadmiums
The cultivated area nearly 2.0 × 10 polluted 7 Hectare. 
 Compared with traditional method, the biological renovation method material source utilizing microorganism to carry out is extensive, (1-at low concentrations
100 mg/L) process heavy metal efficiency height, add that adsorption capacity is big, speed is fast, and selectivity is good, and adsorption plant is simple, easily operates
Etc. feature, process heavy metal pollution with the obvious advantage, can effectively solve water body, heavy metal pollution of soil problem.But it is the most separated
The microbial population of resistance to heavy metal few, removal ability is strong, is not met by the pollution situation that actual environment is complicated, in the urgent need to
Its population diversity abundant, further research and improve ripe process technique and method, go decapacitation with improve heavy metal
Power. 
 Anti-radiation Microbes is the extreme microorganism resource that a class can be survived under high radiation dose, and heavy metal has
Stronger toleration and adsorptivity, it is therefore desirable to probe into the absorbability of Anti-radiation Microbes heavy metal further, for micro-life
Thing repairing heavy metal pollution provides the resistant strain with relatively high absorbability and stable performance, for administering cadmium pollution environment
There is realistic meaning. 
 
 
 Summary of the invention 
 For prior art having no about radiation hardness filamentous fungi and the relevant report of the application of adsorbing heavy metal cadmium thereof,
And the strain heavy metal of separation screening has the state of the art of stronger toleration and adsorptivity, it is contemplated that repair for microorganism
Multiple cadmium pollution provides the resistant strain with relatively high absorbability and stable performance.The present invention is by separating in pedotheque
Filter out a strain and cadmium ion is had radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremoniumsp.) the M30 CGMCC of higher characterization of adsorption
No.11007, utilizes isolated strain to carry out a biological disposal upon cadmium pollution water body, and it is dirty to provide one to utilize this bacterium to carry out cadmium
The application technology scheme that dye aqueous bio processes. 
 The main technical schemes that the present invention uses: 
 Pedotheque of the present invention is picked up from Xinjiang Lop Nur periphery arid desert by Microorgan Application Inst., Xinjiang Agricultural Academy
Area, by the pedotheque of collection after 5000 KGy cobalt source carry out irradiation, with add streptomycin PDA culture medium as separation and Culture
Base, screens in a large number, preferably goes out a collection of well-grown radiation-resistant fungus bacterial strain, therefrom filters out a strain and has high suction to cadmium ion
The fungal bacterial strain M30 of attached characteristic.Cadmium pollution water body is carried out by the fungal bacterial strain utilizing the numbered M30 that the present invention separates
Biological treatment, this bacterial strain is 5g/L, Cr in thalline addition 2+ Solution is 100mg/L, pH6.5, temperature are 20 DEG C, adsorption time
In the case of 1min, to Cr 2+ Clearance reaches more than 90%, to Cr 2+ There is optimal adsorption effect. 
 The present invention specifically provides the sieve of a kind of radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007
Choosing method.By separation screening and cultivation in the pedotheque gathered, it is thus achieved that a collection of fungal microbe bacterial strain, therefrom screen
Go out a strain and cadmium ion is had the fungal bacterial strain M30 of high characterization of adsorption, through microbiological classification and qualification, belong to branch top spore
(Acremonium sp.) bacterial strain. 
 Concrete, the present invention by collection pedotheque is carried out irradiation with 5000 KGy cobalt source, carry out separating, screen and
Cultivating, therefrom filter out the bacterial strain of a numbered M30 of strain, through microbiological classification and qualification, this bacterial strain belongs to branch top spore
(Acremonium sp.) bacterial strain.This bacterial strain was preserved in budapest treaty microorganism International Depository Authority before the applying date:
China Committee for Culture Collection of Microorganisms's common micro-organisms center (CGMCC).Address: BeiChen West Road, Chaoyang District, BeiJing City 1
Number institute 3, Institute of Microorganism, Academia Sinica, postcode: 100101.Preservation date on July 9th, 2015, culture presevation number is
CGMCC No. 11007.It is accredited as branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 through microbiology.This bacterial strain optimum growing condition
For: temperature 25 DEG C, through morphologic observation, culture medium uses (Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g/L, glucose 20g/L, agar in PDA culture medium
15g/L, distilled water 1L, pH is natural), incubation time 5d；After 5d cultivates, it is that bacterium colony is circular, directly at PDA media surface bacterium colony
Footpath 7-12mm, white, middle part powdery, edge is velvet-like, sometimes forms coremium, and the back side is fallow.According to above morphological characteristic,
With reference to " Fungal identification handbook ", M30 bacterial strain carries out morphology, Physiology and biochemistry is identified, by the comparison of classification of fungi retrieval table,
And binding molecule order-checking biology, and LSU sequence analysis, determine that bacterial strain M30 is branch top spore (Acremoniumsp.). 
 Bacterial strain M30 is checked order by the pcr amplification product of the extraction of STb gene, LSU gene, it is thus achieved that 825bp sequence
Row, through GenBank Blast homologous sequence comparison analyze, its branch top spore reported with prior art
(Acremoniumsp.) homology is higher.From GenBank, obtain reference culture LSU gene order, carry out homology evolution point
Analysis, CLUSTAL X carry out Multiple Sequence Alignment, and use adjacent method (Neighbor Joining) in MEGA 5.0 software to carry out
The structure of systematic evolution tree, the present invention provides bacterial strain M30 CGMCC No.11007 to belong to Acremonium fungus
(Acremoniumsp.), it is with this genus type strain Acremonium exuviarum UAMH9995T and Acremonium
Salmoneum CBS 721.71T stably forms one, and has nearest homology, and respectively 98.5% and 97.5%, with other
Type sepecies homology is all higher than 96%.Therefore, often there is the situation more than 99% in view of this belongs to LSU highest homology between other kind, with
Time bacterial strain M30 CGMCC No.11007 not only in terms of morphology and physio-biochemical characteristics have obvious difference and stronger
The tolerance of heavy metal cadmium ion, absorbability, show that M30 bacterial strain is a kind of novel bacterial, temporary named branch top spore
(Acremoniumsp. )M30。 
 Molecule sequencing result shows, the LSU gene order of radiation-resistant fungus M30 CGMCC No.11007 is 825bp.This
Radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 that invention provides and common fungus strain have obvious physio-biochemical characteristics
Difference and the diversity of molecular level, combining according to strain Analysis of The Physiological And Biochemical Properties, molecular level analysis and systematics
Close and identify, although the strain of numbered M30 is compared with common Acremonium fungus strain, there are some total attributes, but
It is based on having obvious physio-biochemical characteristics difference and the diversity of molecular level with common Acremonium fungus strain, shows
M30 bacterial strain is a kind of typical novel bacterial, and the tolerance of its heavy metal cadmium ion, absorbability are higher, will from taxonomy
M30 identification of strains is radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.). 
 The present invention so provide radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 separation and
Cultural method. 
 1. isolation medium uses: PDA culture medium, every 100ml culture medium adds 1% Streptomycin Solution 0.3ml, is simultaneously introduced
Cadmium-ion solution so that it is concentration reaches 1500mg/L respectively. 
 2. the preparation of soil sample diluent: the soil sample will crossed through 5000 KGy cobalt-60 radiosterilizes, is dissolved according to solid-liquid ratio 1 10
In triangular flask containing sterilized water, the rear 28 DEG C of constant temperature oscillations (160r/min) of Glass rod stirring cultivate 30min, take out triangular flask and are placed in
Horizontal table top stands 30min.Take 1mL supernatant in equipped with in the test tube containing 9mL aquesterilisa, fully mix, by gradient dilution method
Stepwise dilution is to 10 -3 。 
 The most isolated and purified: take stock solution, 10 -1 、10 -2 、10 -3 The each 1mL of diluent coats Cr 2+ Concentration is dividing of 1500mg/L
On culture medium flat plate, smear uniformly with glass spatula immediately.Flat-plate inverted is placed in 30 DEG C of constant incubators and cultivates 48h.Treat bacterium
Fall after growing, the visibly different single bacterium colony mycelia of picking colony feature or spore, use method of scoring to continue isolated and purified, until obtaining
Obtain pure culture. 
 Through cultivating radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) the M30 CGMCC No.11007 bacterium colony circle that screening determines
Shape, diameter 7-12mm, white, middle part powdery, edge is velvet-like, sometimes forms coremium, and the back side is fallow. 
 Further, the present invention provides a kind of radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30CGMCC No.11007 to exist
Cadmium pollution aqueous bio is applied in processing.By research at different concentration of cadmium ions, temperature, pH value, inoculum concentration and adsorption time
Under the conditions of on thalline absorption impact, obtain M30 to Cr 2+ Optimal adsorption condition be thalline addition be 5g/L, Cr 2+ Solution
For 100mg/L, pH6.5, temperature be 20 DEG C, adsorption time be 1min. 
 By implementing the concrete technical specification of the present invention, it is achieved present invention, following beneficial effect can be reached: 
 (1) radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) the M30 CGMCC No.11007 that the present invention provides is a kind of typical
Novel bacterial, has condition of culture simple, breeds fast feature. 
 (2) the radiation hardness Acremonium fungal bacterial strain thalline of the numbered M30 of separation screening of the present invention is made biological suction
Attached dose, be 5g/L, Cr in thalline addition 2+ Solution is 100mg/L, pH6.5, temperature are 20 DEG C, adsorption time is the bar of 1min
Under part, its maximum solution C r 2+ Clearance is up to more than 90%, and different metal ion pair thalline absorption Cr 2+ Impact different, K + 、
Na + 、Pb 2+ 、Al 3+ Plasma is on adsorbing almost without impact, and Cu 2+  、Mg 2+  、Fe 3+  、Ca 2+ To Cr 2+ Removal has obvious shadow
Ring. 
 (3) present invention is during processing low concentration cadmium polluted wastewater, both can utilize the growth Adsorption of Cadmium of thalline,
Can also directly use thalline to adsorb, have that clearance is high, response speed fast, non-secondary pollution, an advantage such as easy and simple to handle. 
 
 
 Accompanying drawing explanation 
 Fig. 1 show bacterium colony and the thalline photograph of radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007
Sheet, wherein A is colonial morphology figure, and B is 10 times of eyepiece hypothallus aspect graphs, and C is 20 times of eyepiece hypothallus aspect graphs. 
 It is tree-shaped that Fig. 2 show spore (Acremonium sp.) the M30 CGMCC No.11007 phylogeny of radiation hardness branch top
Figure. 
 Fig. 3 show radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 to different metal ion
Tolerance testing result. 
 Fig. 4 show radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 wet thallus consumption to suction
Attached effect affect figure. 
 Fig. 5 show radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 difference concentration of cadmium ions
Adsorption effect affected figure. 
 Fig. 6 show radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 solution ph to absorption
Effect affect figure. 
 Fig. 7 show radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 difference adsorption time
With temperature adsorption effect affected figure. 
 Fig. 8 show radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 different metal ion pair
Adsorption effect affect figure. 
 
 
 Detailed description of the invention 
 Below, for embodiment, the present invention is described, but, the present invention is not limited to following embodiment.The present invention selects
All raw and auxiliary materials, and select spawn culture method be all to it is well known that selection, the % related in the present invention is
Be weight percentage, unless otherwise indicated except. 
 
 
 Embodiment one: the separation of radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007, screening and
Identify 
 1, the separation of strain and screening 
 Branch top used in the present invention spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 by Microorgan Application Inst., Xinjiang Agricultural Academy from
Xinjiang Lop Nur periphery arid-desert areas gathers in a large number in soil and samples, and separates after 5000 KGy cobalt source carry out irradiation, profit
Isolate the fungus in soil layer by traditional plating method, plate streak purification bacterial strain, with different cultivation temperature, pH
Value, culture medium are enrichment condition, go out a collection of well-grown fungal bacterial strain through optimal screening, the most preferably go out a strain numbered
The bacterial strain of M30. 
 Separating step: 
 (1) isolation medium: use PDA culture medium, every 100ml culture medium adds 1% Streptomycin Solution 0.3ml, be simultaneously introduced cadmium from
Sub-solution so that it is concentration reaches 1500mg/L respectively. 
 (2) preparation of soil sample diluent: the soil sample will crossed through 5000 KGy cobalt-60 radiosterilizes, is dissolved according to solid-liquid ratio 1 10
In triangular flask containing sterilized water, the rear 28 DEG C of constant temperature oscillations (160r/min) of Glass rod stirring cultivate 30min, take out triangular flask and are placed in
Horizontal table top stands 30min.Take 1mL supernatant in equipped with in the test tube containing 9mL aquesterilisa, fully mix, by gradient dilution method
Stepwise dilution is to 10 -3 。 
 (3) isolated and purified: take stock solution, 10 -1 、10 -2 、10 -3 The each 1mL of diluent coats Cr 2+ Concentration is dividing of 1500mg/L
On culture medium flat plate, smear uniformly with glass spatula immediately.Flat-plate inverted is placed in 30 DEG C of constant incubators and cultivates 48h.Treat bacterium
Fall after growing, the visibly different single bacterium colony mycelia of picking colony feature or spore, use method of scoring to continue isolated and purified, until obtaining
Obtain pure culture. 
 2, the condition of culture of bacterial strain 
 (1) growth medium of the bacterial strain of numbered M30 is PDA culture medium: Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g/L, glucose 20g/L, agar
15g/L, distilled water 1L, pH is natural, through 30 DEG C, 96 h cultivations. 
 (2) bacterial strain of numbered M30 all can grow under the conditions of 20-35 DEG C, and optimum growth temperature is 25 DEG C, incubation time
For 3-5d. 
 (3) the growth pH of the bacterial strain of numbered M30 is natural. 
 (4) the heavy metal tolerance experiment of numbered M30 bacterial strain. 
 By activated inoculation in equipped with in the seed test tube of Cha Shi fluid medium, in 30 DEG C of cultivations, 150rpm
After shaken cultivation 36h, it is inoculated in the Hg containing different content respectively by 2% inoculum concentration 2+ 、Cu 2+ 、Zn 2+ 、Cd 2+ 、 Pb 2+ 、Cr 2+ Look into
In family name's fluid medium, the amount of adding is 500ml triangle bottled 80ml Cha Shi fluid medium, and in 25 DEG C of cultivations, 180rpm shakes
Swing cultivation 96h, observe the tolerance situation of strain. 
 The toleration testing result of different heavy metal ion is seen attached by radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30
Fig. 3.Be can be seen that bacterial strain M30 has toleration to various metals by accompanying drawing 3, it is to Pb 2+ 、Zn 2+ Tolerance best, its
Tolerable concentration is respectively 1900mg/L, 1700mg/L, Cr 2+ Taking second place, maximum tolerated concentration reaches 1500mg/L.Bacterial strain is to Hg 2+ Resistance to
Worst by property, substantially it is suppressed when concentration reaches 50mg/L thalli growth.Result shows, this strain is for heavy metal ion
Cr 2+ There is higher toleration, have a good application prospect in heavy metal biological processes. 
 Concrete, the present invention by collection pedotheque is carried out irradiation with 5000 KGy cobalt source, carry out separating, screen and
Cultivating, therefrom filter out the bacterial strain of a numbered M30 of strain, through microbiological classification and qualification, this bacterial strain belongs to branch top spore
(Acremonium sp.) bacterial strain.This bacterial strain was preserved in budapest treaty microorganism International Depository Authority before the applying date:
China Committee for Culture Collection of Microorganisms's common micro-organisms center (CGMCC).Address: BeiChen West Road, Chaoyang District, BeiJing City 1
Number institute 3, Institute of Microorganism, Academia Sinica, postcode: 100101.Preservation date on July 9th, 2015, culture presevation number is
CGMCC No. 11007.It is accredited as branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 through microbiology.This bacterial strain optimum growing condition
For: temperature 25 DEG C, through morphologic observation, culture medium uses (Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g/L, glucose 20g/L, agar in PDA culture medium
15g/L, distilled water 1L, pH is natural), incubation time 5d；After 5d cultivates, it is that bacterium colony is circular, directly at PDA media surface bacterium colony
Footpath 7-12mm, white, middle part powdery, edge is velvet-like, sometimes forms coremium, and the back side is fallow. 
 Molecule sequencing result shows, the LSU of radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007
Gene order is 825bp, the present invention provide radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 with
Common fungi strain has obvious physio-biochemical characteristics difference and the diversity of molecular level, divides according to strain physio-biochemical characteristics
Analysis, molecular level analysis and the comprehensive identification of systematics, although the strain of numbered M30 is at physio-biochemical characteristics and molecule
Horizontal aspect and common Acremonium fungus strain have obvious difference, and compared with common fungus strain, it is to a huge sum of money
The genus tolerance of cadmium ion, absorbability are higher, but are based on taxonomy and are accredited as branch top spore (Acremonium sp.). 
 3, the Physiology and biochemistry of bacterial strain M30 is identified 
 Morphological characteristic: the separated cultivation of this strain M30, in PDA culture medium, bacterium colony is rounded, diameter 7-12mm, white, middle part
Powdery, edge is velvet-like, sometimes forms coremium, and the back side is fallow.According to the Preliminary Identification of common fungus authentication method, pass through
The comparison of classification of fungi retrieval table, and LSU sequence analysis, identify and determine that bacterial strain M30 bacterium is branch top spore (Acremonium
Sp.), its bacterium colony and thalli morphology see accompanying drawing 1. 
 Physiological and biochemical property: this bacterium has carried out sugar fermentation, carbon assimilation is identified, this bacterial strain M30 is raw in PDA culture medium
Long good, to test through Biolog FF identification plate, result shows that bacterial strain M30 can utilize Tween 80, N-acetyl group--D-Fructus Vitis viniferae
Osamine, ribitol, Fructus Pruni glycosides, L-arabinose, D-arabitol, arbutin, D-cellobiose, dextrin, erythritol, D-fruit
Sugar, L-trehalose, D-galactose, gentiobiose, maltonic acid, D-Glucose amine, a-D-glucose, D-glucuronic acid, third
Triol, glycogen, m inositol, 2-ketone-maltonic acid, lactulose, maltose, maltotriose, PEARLITOL 25C, D-MANNOSE, D-
Melezitose, D-6-(.alpha.-D-galactosido)-D-glucose., a-methyl D-galactoside ,-methyl-D-glucoside, a-methyl-D-glucoside ,-methyl-
D-Glucose glycosides, 6-O-D-Glucopyranose. acyl-D-fructofuranose, D-Psicose, D-melitriose, L-rhamnose, salicin,
Sedoheptulosan, D-glucitol, L-sorbose, stachyose, sucrose, D-trehalose, turanose, xylitol, D-xylose, y-ammonia
Base butanoic acid, bromosuccinic acid, fumaric acid, L MALIC ACID, quinic acid, D-Glucose diacid, decanedioic acid, succinic acid, L-third
Amino acid, L-alanyl glycine, altheine, L-Aspartic acid, Pidolidone, ornithine, L-phenylalanine, dried meat ammonia
Acid, pyroglutamic acid, Serine, 2-ethylaminoethanol, rotten glycosides, adenosine. 
 In conjunction with above morphological characteristic, with reference to " Fungal identification handbook ", M30 bacterial strain is carried out morphology, Physiology and biochemistry qualification,
By the comparison of classification of fungi retrieval table, and binding molecule order-checking biology, and LSU sequence analysis, determine that bacterial strain M30 is branch
Top spore belongs to fungus (Acremonium sp.). 
 By the above-mentioned thalline for strain radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007
Form, cultural characteristic are observed and Determination of Physiological And Biochemical Indices, i.e. by thalli morphology observation, strain culturing observation of characteristics, growth
Temperature measuring, resistance test etc. are tested, compared with common strain, to 6 heavy metal species ion Pb 2+ 、Cd 2+ 、Hg 2+ 、Cu 2+ 、Cr 2   + 、Zn 2+ Being respectively provided with higher resistance characteristics, the method with reference to " Fungal identification handbook " is carried out, although the strain of numbered M30 with
Common Acremonium fungus strain is compared, and has some attributes of general character, but is based on and common Acremonium fungus bacterium
Plant and have obvious physio-biochemical characteristics difference and the diversity of molecular level, show that M30 bacterial strain is a kind of typical novel bacterial, just
Step identifies the kind that this bacterial strain is Ascomycota cup fungi subphylum excrement shell Gammaproteobacteria Hypocreales Acremonium, from bacterium classification angle
It is radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) by the bacterial strain comprehensive identification that bacterium numbering is M30. 
 
 
 Embodiment two: radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 molecular level is identified 
 1. DNA extraction: fungus extracting method is as follows: 
 (1) 200mg thalline, liquid nitrogen grinding, add 3ml 3% extract with CTAB buffer, 65 DEG C of water-bath 45min, 4 DEG C of 4000r/
Min is centrifuged 20min. 
 (2) take supernatant and forward in centrifuge tube, add 4 μ l 10mg/ml protease, 37 DEG C, water-bath 1h. 
 (3) add the 800 μ saturated phenol of l Tris, shake up 13000r/min and be centrifuged 10min；Take supernatant. 
 (4) adding isopyknic chloroform/isoamyl alcohol, shake up, 13000r/min is centrifuged 10min, takes supernatant. 
 (5) adding the RNase of 10mg/ml, 37 DEG C of water-baths overnight process. 
 (6) adding 800 μ l chloroforms/isoamyl alcohol, shake up, 13000r/min is centrifuged 10min, takes supernatant. 
 (7) adding 600 μ l isoamyl alcohol ,-20 DEG C of precipitation 30min, collect precipitation, 75% ethanol, rinse, super-clean bench vacuum is done
Dry. 
 (8) 100 μ l TE dissolving DNAs ,-20 DEG C save backup.Add the RNase of 1 μ l, 37 DEG C of water-bath 1h, add 400
μ l chloroform/isoamyl alcohol (24: 1), 12000r/min is centrifuged 10min, is repeated 2 times. 
 2. the amplification of LSU gene and order-checking, uses fungus LSU gene universal primer to expand: 
 Primer V9: 5 '-TGCGTTGATTACGTCCCTGC-3' 
 RLR3R:5 '-GGTCCGTGTTTCAAGAC-3', 
 PCR amplification reaction system is 50 μ L, and reaction condition is: 95 ° of C, 5min；95 ° of C 45 s, 56 ° of C 45s, 72 ° of C
60s, 35cycles, 72 ° of C, 7min.Amplified production (about 900bp), pcr amplification product detects with 1% agarose gel electrophoresis,
Amplified production is checked order, the LSU gene order of bacterial strain M30 is measured, through sequence analysis, bacterial strain M30 CGMCC
No.11007 gene order is 825bp, sees the gene order table SEQUENCE LISTING of attached offer. 
 3. LSU sequence alignment and Phylogenetic Analysis 
 The present invention is checked order by the pcr amplification product of the extraction of STb gene, LSU gene, it is thus achieved that 825bp sequence, warp
GenBank Blast homologous sequence comparison analyze, its branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) reported with prior art with
Source property is higher.From GenBank, obtain reference culture LSU gene order, carry out homology evolutionary analysis, CLUSTAL X is carried out
Multiple Sequence Alignment, and use the adjacent method (Neighbor Joining) of Saitou and Nei in MEGA 5.0 software to carry out
The structure of systematic evolution tree, result sees accompanying drawing 2.From dendrogram it can be seen that the present invention provide radiation hardness branch top spore
(Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 and Common fungi strain have obvious physio-biochemical characteristics difference and divide
The diversity of sub-level, according to strain Analysis of The Physiological And Biochemical Properties, molecular level analysis and the comprehensive identification of systematics, compiles
Although number having substantially with common Acremonium fungus strain in terms of physio-biochemical characteristics and molecular level for the strain of M30
Difference, compared with common fungus strain, the tolerance of its heavy metal cadmium ion, absorbability are higher, but are based on
Taxonomy is accredited as branch top spore (Acremonium sp.). 
 
 
 
 
 Embodiment three: the preparation of radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 thalline 
 Activated bacterial strain radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 of the present invention is inoculated in
In seed test tube equipped with 5ml Cha Shi fluid medium, in 30 DEG C of cultivations, after 200rpm shaken cultivation 36h, by 2% inoculum concentration
Being inoculated in Cha Shi fluid medium, the amount of adding is 500ml triangle bottled 100ml Cha Shi fluid medium, in 30 DEG C of cultivations,
180rpm shaken cultivation 96h.The culture that fermentation culture is obtained is centrifuged 5min through 8000rpm, collects wet thallus standby. 
 
 
 Embodiment four: radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 is at absorption cadmium biology
Application in reason 
 Accurately weigh branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) the M30 CGMCC No.11007 that a certain amount of above-described embodiment provides
Thalline add to finite concentration, the Cr of pH 2+ Solution, by different test requirements document vibration absorption certain times, then 8000
Rpm is centrifuged 5 min, and supernatant is after suitable gradient dilution, after 45 um filtering with microporous membranes, uses inductively coupled plasma
Body constitution spectrum (ICP-MS) method measures, and is calculated as follows thalline to Cr 2+ Adsorption rate and adsorbance. 
 Adsorption rate (%)=(Ci-Cj)/Ci × l00%；Adsorbance (mg/g)=(Ci Cj)/Cb； 
 In formula: Ci and Cj is respectively Cr 2+ Initial concentration and final concentration, Cb is cell concentration. 
 By M30 inoculation in the liquid PDA culture medium without cadmium ion, after cultivating 3-5 days, collect mycelium, enter
Row thalline adsorption test, studies and inhales thalline under the conditions of different concentration of cadmium ions, temperature, pH value, inoculum concentration and adsorption time
Attached impact. 
 (1) radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 is adsorbed by different thalline consumptions
Impact 
 With 50mg/L Cr 2+ Cadmium nitrate solution in, pH be initial condition naturally, be separately added into different quality (0.05g, 0.1g,
0.2g, 0.3g) wet thallus, measure the Cr in solution after absorption 1h 2+ Concentration, and calculate thalline Cr 2+ Solution clearance and unit
Thalline adsorption rate.Result is shown in accompanying drawing 4, along with the increase of thalline consumption, Cr 2+ Clearance is continuously increased, when bacterium amount reaches 3g/L,
Cr in solution 2+ Clearance is close to 100%.From the point of view of unit thalline adsorption rate, thalline maximum unit adsorption rate can reach
14.73mg/g wet thallus, shows stronger absorbability, but along with the increase of biomass, its adsorption rate declines rapidly, and this can
Energy and adsorption equilibrium, and too much thalline non-adsorbed is saturated relevant.Therefore, solution C r is considered 2+ Clearance and unit thalline
Adsorption rate, selecting thalline addition is that 5g/L does follow-up test. 
 (2) radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 is inhaled by different concentration of cadmium ions
Attached impact 
 Weigh each 0.1g of thalline, be respectively placed in the Cr that concentration of cadmium ions is 50mg/L, 100mg/L, 150mg/L, 200mg/L 2+ Molten
In liquid, measure the impact that thalline is adsorbed by different cadmium solution concentration, and to Cr 2+ The impact of clearance.Result is shown in accompanying drawing 5, by
Accompanying drawing 5 understands: along with Cr 2+ The increase of concentration, bacterial strain is to Cr 2+ Removal takes the lead in of short duration holding maximum material removal rate, after nearly 100%, fast
Speed declines and then declines slowly, and the adsorption rate of unit thalline gradually rises, in scope of experiment, maximum unit adsorbance up to
To 16.5 mg/g, this is because during initial low concentrations, thalline is relative to supersaturation, along with Cr in solution 2+ Be stepped up, satiety
The bacterium amount of sum is broken, and the substitute is Cr 2+ Excess, cause the decline of clearance, but owing to the absorption of thalline unit is not satisfied
With, so it is still gradually rising.Experiment considers solution C r 2+ Clearance and the adsorption rate of unit thalline, select cadmium from
Sub-concentration is 100mg/L. 
 (3) radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30CGMCC No.11007 is adsorbed by different solutions pH value
Impact 
 Weighing each 0.1g of thalline, being respectively placed in 10ml concentration of cadmium ions is 100mg/L, and pH value is the Pb of 3,4,5,6,7,8,9 2+ 
In solution, after standing adsorption 3h, measure the impact that thalline is adsorbed by different pH value.Result is shown in accompanying drawing 6, along with the rising of pH value,
Thalline is to Cr in solution 2+ Clearance is gradually increased, pH value when 7 bacterial strain to pb 2+ Solution adsorption rate is the highest, reaches 90%, but works as pH
When value is more than 5, its increasing degree is in the trend reduced, and this is probably H in the environment of peracidity + With Cr 2+ There is competition relevant.
But the solution of too high pH (more than more than 8), Cr 2+ Cr (OH) can be formed 2 Precipitation, i.e. can bring new pollution, also make bacterium
Body absorption is meaningless, and therefore, when test uses solution ph to be 5-7, thalline is the strongest to the absorbability of cadmium ion, selects optimal
PH value is 6.5. 
 (4) different adsorption times and temperature are to radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007
The impact of absorption 
 Temperature and adsorption time are all important influence factors to most of adsorption processes, measure different time and different temperatures pair
Thalline is removed Cr 2+ Impact.Result is shown in accompanying drawing 7, thalline absorption Cr 2+ Process is extremely rapid, the most substantially reaches in absorption 1min
Arrived maximum, and continued to increase adsorption time and can slightly decline on the contrary, illustrate this bacterial strain when 1min to Cr 2+ Adsorption rate
High.From accompanying drawing 7, different adsorption temps is minimum on adsorption process impact, probably due to Adsorption thermodynamics or molecule diffusion
Etc. reason, only there will be trickle difference in the later stage, and 20 DEG C of declines be minimum, illustrate temperature when 20 DEG C, bacterial strain is to Cr 2+ Solution
Adsorption rate is the highest, reaches 90%. 
 (5) different metal ion pair radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 absorption
Impact 
 PH be 6.5, Cr 2+ Concentration be 200mg/L 50mL solution in add 0.5g wet thallus, be simultaneously introduced 200mg/L not
Same heavy metal ion solution (Cu 2+  、Mg 2+  、Fe 3+  、Ca 2+ 、K + 、Na + 、Pb 2+ 、Al 3+ ), after absorption 1h, measure Cr in solution 2   + Concentration, and calculate Cr in solution 2+ Clearance.Result is shown in accompanying drawing 8, different metal ion pair thalline absorption Cr 2+ Impact different, K + 、Na + 、Pb 2+ 、Al 3+ Plasma is on adsorbing almost without impact, and Cu 2+  、Mg 2+  、Fe 3+  、Ca 2+ To Cr 2+ Removal has obvious shadow
Ringing, this may be relevant in the selectivity of thalline specific groups. 
 Comprehensive above step, it is known that thalline is made biological adsorption agent, and thalline addition is 5g/L, Cr 2+ Solution is
100mg/L, pH6.5, temperature are 20 DEG C, adsorption time is 1min, its maximum solution C r 2+ Clearance is not up to more than 90%, and not
With metal ion, thalline is adsorbed Cr 2+ Impact different, K + 、Na + 、Pb 2+ 、Al 3+ Plasma is on adsorbing almost without impact, and Cu 2+ 
、Mg 2+  、Fe 3+  、Ca 2+ To Cr 2+ Removal has significantly impact. 
 Radiation hardness branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) the M30 CGMCC provided by above-mentioned series embodiment
No.11007 is a kind of typical novel bacterial, has condition of culture simple, breeds fast advantage feature, by its strain radiation hardness branch
Top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 applies during processing low concentration cadmium polluted wastewater, the most permissible
Utilize the growth Adsorption of Cadmium of thalline, it is also possible to directly use thalline absorption, have that clearance is high, response speed fast, without two
Secondary pollution, the advantage such as easy and simple to handle. 
 Above-described embodiment is only for clearly demonstrating example of the present invention, and not restriction to embodiment.
For those of ordinary skill in the field, the change of other multi-form can also be made on the basis of the above description
Or variation.Here without also cannot all of embodiment be given exhaustive.And the obvious change thus extended
Or change among still in protection scope of the present invention. 
 SEQUENCE LISTING 
 <110>Microorgan Application Inst., Xinjiang Agricultural Academy 
 <120>radiation hardness filamentous fungi M30 and the application in absorption cadmium biological treatment thereof 
 <130> 2016 
 <160> 1 
 <170> PatentIn version 3.3 
 <210> 1 
 <211> 825 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>branch top spore (Acremonium sp.) M30 CGMCC No.11007 
 <221> LSU 
 <400> 1 
 
 
 aacggcgagt gaagcggcaa cagctcaaat ttgaaatctt ggcctcgtgc ccgagttgta 60 
 atttgtagag gatgcttttg gcgacgcgac ttccgagttc cctggaacgg gacgccatag 120 
 agggtgagag ccccgtccgg tcgtgcgcct agcctctgta aagctccttc gacgagtcga 180 
 gtagtttggg aatgctgatc taaatgggag gtatacgtct tctaaagcta aataccggcc 240 
 agagaccgat agcgcacaag tagagtgatc gaaagatgaa aagcactttg aaaagagggt 300 
 taagtagtac gtgaaattgc tgaaagggaa gcgcttatga ccagacttgg gcgcggcgga 360 
 tcatccggcg ttctcgccgg tgcactccac cgccccaggc cagcatcagt tcgcgccggg 420 
 ggacaaaggc ttcgggaatg tggctgcctc gggagtgtta tagcccgatg cgtaatacct 480 
 ggcgcggact gaggtccgcg ctctgcaagg atgctggcgt aatggtcatc agtgacccgt 540 
 cttgaaacac ggacccaagg agtcgtcttc gtatgcgagt gttcgggtgt caaaccccta 600 
 cgcggaatga aagtgaacgt aggagagagc ttcggcgcat ctccgaccga tcctgatgtt 660 
 ctgggatgga tttgagtaag agcatacggg gccggacccg aaagaaggtg aactatgcct 720 
 gtgtagggtg aagccagagg aaactctggt ggaggctcgc agcggttctg acgtgcaaat 780 
 cgatcgtcaa acatgggcat gggggcgaaa gactaatcga acctt 825 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
