
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Internal organs humanization mouse 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to be replaced from all or part of domain in the H2-D molecules of mouse MHC I classes as people MHC I
The embryonic stem cell (ES cells) and internal organs gathered in the mouse of the domain of the HLA-A molecules of class is by the mouse of humanization. 
 
 
 Background technology 
 In the past, on people's internal organs model mice making, such as the model mice of liver, the report such as Heckel
One kind is imported with construct (Alb-Plau) transgenic mice, and (Tg (Alb-Plau), the construct is at albumin (Alb)
Activator of plasminogen (Plau) gene (non-patent literature 1 of urokinase (urokinase) type is connected with promoter：
Heckel et al.Cell 62:447-456,1990)), however, the mouse after birth the 4th day because of the bleeding of intestinal tube etc. and
Death, therefore fail to be used to test.On the other hand, in Tg (Alb-Plau), the systems of living individuals establish be it is successful,
And report occurred using liver cell in division Alb-Plau gene defects liver cell regeneration go out liver example (it is non-specially
Sharp document 2：Sandgren et al.Cell 66:245-256,1991).Have the adult liver of Tg (MT-nLacZ) mouse in addition
Cell is transplanted to Tg (Alb-Plau) and the example to succeed, and Tg (MT-nLacZ) mouse has been introduced into metallothionein
The mouse of the construct of lacZ gene is connected with white promoter, i.e. the lacZ for being used as marker gene is marked as donor
Transgenic mice (Tg (MT-nLacZ) mouse) (non-patent literature 3 of liver cell：Rhim et al.Science 263:1149-
1152,1994)。 
 And then there is the example for the transplanting that human liver cell is carried out to immunodeficient mouse.Such as there is following example：It is right
Rag2-/- gene defect immunodeficient mouse transplanted hepatocytess and carry out the example of the infection experiment of hepatitis type B virus (HBV)
(non-patent literature 4：Dandri et al.Hepatology 33:981-988,2001), or for making Tg (Alb-Plau)
SCID mice (Tg (Alb-Plau)) the transplanting people liver for being changed into immune deficiency with being mated as the SCID of immunodeficient mouse is thin
Born of the same parents (Tg (Alb-Plau)；SCID)), and the infection experiment (non-patent literature 5 of HCV is carried out：Mercer et
al.Nature Med.7:927-933,2001) etc.. 
 And then Tateno etc. makes liver have the albumin enhancer/promoter urokinase plasminogen activator damaged
Transgenic mice (uPA mouse) mates with SCID mice, and the character for making any one is that the uPA/SCID of homozygote turns
DNA murine (non-patent literature 6：Tateno et al.Amer.J.Pathol165:901-912,2004).Described in this report
There is human liver cell to Tg (Alb-Plau；SCID the improvement of grafting), handled and excluded from human liver cell by Futhan
The influence of complement, also reduce the death rate even if for height chimera. 
 And then it is also reported that confirm to carry out the feasible of gene therapy by model of the immunodeficient mouse of Rag2 gene defects
Research (the non-patent literature 7 of property：Shaping/disaster surgery " from molecular level, Orthopedic Disorders series IV body cells
Clone technology and regenerative medicine (shaping Disaster evil surgeries " molecule レ ベ Le か ら body plastic surgery illness シ リ ー ズ IV bodies Fine
Born of the same parents ク ロ ー ン Ji Intraoperative と regeneration doctors Treatment ") Vol.45, NO.11, PAGE.1040-1041,2002). 
 But the liver cell of the mouse as host is remained in these model mices, it is not 100% cell quilt
It is replaced into the hepatocyte model of the cell from people.In addition, the cell from people may not be regenerated, so as to transplanting source of having to
From the cell of people.And then once liver cell of the residual from mouse, the then inspection of the liver function of people will become insufficient. 
 On the other hand, in order to establish the ES cell lines from NOG mouse of progress germline transmission, have also been attempted using differentiation
Signal inhibitor (PD0325901, CHIR99021) establishes ES cells (non-patent literature 8：Japanese experimental animal association is always
Give a lecture main idea collection Vol.58th, Page 210,2011.) 
 However, because NOG mouse are difficult to breed this point, it is difficult to obtain multiple mouse needed for experimental use. 
 In addition, the present inventor has successfully made liver by the embryonic stem cell gathered from immunodeficient mouse before this
By the animal pattern (patent document 1 of humanization：WO2013/145331). 
 
 
 Prior art literature 
 Patent document 
 Patent document 1：No. 2013/145331 pamphlet of International Publication No. 
 Non-patent literature 
 Non-patent literature 1：Heckel et al.Cell 62:447-456,1990 
 Non-patent literature 2：Sandgren et al.Cell 66:245-256,1991 
 Non-patent literature 3：Rhim et al.Science 263:1149-1152,1994 
 Non-patent literature 4：Dandri et al.Hepatology 33:981-988,2001 
 Non-patent literature 5：Mercer et al.Nature Med.7:927-933,2001 
 Non-patent literature 6：Tateno et al.Amer.J.Pathol 165:901-912,2004 
 Non-patent literature 7：Shaping/disaster surgery " molecule レ ベ Le か ら body plastic surgery illness シ リ ー ズ IV bodies Fine
Born of the same parents ク ロ ー ン Ji Intraoperative と regeneration doctor Treatment " Vol.45, NO.11, PAGE.1040-1041,2002 
 Non-patent literature 8：Main idea collection Vol.58th, Page 210,2011 always gives a lecture in Japanese experimental animal association 
 
 
 The content of the invention 
 
 Problems to be solved by the invention 
 
 It is an object of the present invention to it is not by from immunodeficient mouse but by the embryo of the normal mouse of immune response
Tire provides internal organs by the mouse of humanization.More specifically, and it is an object of the present invention to provide：Collection resists from mouse major histocompatibility
Former (MHC) I genoids are destroyed, the embryo for the mouse with HLA- II antigens gene that replaces is dry thin
Born of the same parents' (ES cells)；And internal organs are by the mouse of humanization. 
 
 The solution used to solve the problem 
 
 The present inventor has made intensive studies to solve above-mentioned problem, as a result successfully produces and is done by using embryo
Cell makes internal organs by the mouse of humanization, and the embryonic stem cell is to make the whole in the H2-D molecules of mouse MHC I classes
Or partial domain is replaced the embryo of the mouse of the domain of the HLA-A molecules for people's MHC I classes, in GSK3 inhibitor and
Obtained from being cultivated in the presence of mek inhibitor it. 
 It was found that by transplanting human liver cell in the prenatal yolk Nang blood vessels to the mouse, even if without using in the past such
Immunodeficient mouse, human liver cell also survives, and so far completes the present invention. 
 That is, the present invention is as described below. 
 (1) a kind of embryonic stem cell, it is to the H2- of mouse MHC I classes in the presence of GSK3 inhibitor and mek inhibitor
The embryo that all or part of domain in D molecules is replaced the mouse of the domain of the HLA-A molecules for people's MHC I classes is carried out
Obtained from culture. 
 (2) embryonic stem cell according to (1), wherein, the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and the microballoon eggs of β 2 of H2-D molecules
White domain is replaced the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and β2-microglobulin domain for people's HLA-A molecules respectively. 
 (3) embryonic stem cell according to (1) or (2), its preserving number are represented with NITE BP-02068. 
 (4) according to the embryonic stem cell any one of (1)~(3), wherein, it is imported with female hormone receptor gene and white
Larynx toxin gene. 
 (5) embryonic stem cell according to (4), wherein, endogenic growth hormone gene is replaced into source in cell
From the gene of people. 
 (6) embryonic stem cell according to (5), wherein, endogenic drug metabolism enzyme gene is also replaced in cell
For the gene from people. 
 (7) according to the embryonic stem cell described in (6), wherein, in cell endogenic drug metabolism enzyme gene be selected from by
It is at least one kind of in the group of Cyp3a11, Cyp3a13, Cyp3a25 and Cyp3a41 composition. 
 (8) a kind of mouse, it is made using the embryonic stem cell any one of above-mentioned (1)~(3). 
 (9) a kind of mouse, it is made using the embryonic stem cell any one of above-mentioned (4)~(7). 
 (10) mouse according to (9), wherein, cause hepatocellular injury by bestowing antiestrogenic agent. 
 (11) a kind of liver is by the mouse of humanization, it is characterised in that to the mouse transplanting described in above-mentioned (9) from people
Liver cell, and bestow antiestrogenic agent and remove the liver cell from the mouse. 
 (12) mouse according to (11), wherein, the liver cell from people is derived from the patient's with liver diseases
Liver cell. 
 (13) a kind of people's liver diseases model mice, it includes the mouse described in above-mentioned (12). 
 (14) a kind of manufacture method of the embryonic stem cell from mouse, it is characterised in that press down in GSK3 inhibitor and MEK
In the presence of preparation, all or part of domain in the H2-D molecules of mouse MHC I classes is replaced as the HLA- of people's MHC I classes
The embryo of the mouse of the domain of A molecules is cultivated. 
 (15) method according to (14), wherein, the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and the β2-microglobulin knot of H2-D molecules
Structure domain is replaced the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and β2-microglobulin domain for people's HLA-A molecules respectively. 
 (16) a kind of preparation method of liver damage model mouse, it is characterised in that bestowed to the mouse described in above-mentioned (9)
Antiestrogenic agent. 
 (17) a kind of liver is by the preparation method of the mouse of humanization, it is characterised in that is moved to the mouse described in above-mentioned (9)
The liver cell from people is planted, and bestows antiestrogenic agent and removes the liver cell from mouse. 
 (18) method according to (17), wherein, the liver cell from people is from the patient's with liver diseases
Liver cell. 
 
 The effect of invention 
 
 According to the present invention, there is provided a kind of embryonic stem cell, it is derived from the normal mouse of immune response, most suitable for establishing
The mouse of the cell transplantation of people.For the embryonic stem cell of the present invention, it can be imported and liver when carrying out the humanization of liver
The relevant various people's genes of function, can establish humanization hepatic model mouse.Therefore, established by the embryonic stem cell of the present invention
Mouse can be utilized in the cell transplantation of the various internal organs of people, from can be extremely to have from the viewpoint of 100% humanization
. 
 
 
 Brief description of the drawings 
 Fig. 1 is the figure of MHC I quasi-molecules for showing to use in HHB mouse are made. 
 Fig. 2 is the figure for showing various anomaly lox. 
 Fig. 3 is the structure figure for human growth hormone gene to be imported to the replacement vector of ES cells； 
 Fig. 4 is for by the structure figure of the replacement vector of people's drug metabolic enzyme channel genes ES cells； 
 Fig. 5 is to illustrate to import until the figure of the dead process of mouse liver cell from diphtheria toxin gene to ES cells； 
 Fig. 6 is shown the figure at the position of embryo transfer of the human liver cell to mouse； 
 Fig. 7 is to show the figure from the induction process of iPS cells into hepatocytes. 
 
 
 Embodiment 
 The present invention described further below. 
 1. summary 
 The present invention is to be set to by all or part of domain in normal mouse, mouse MHC I classes H2-D molecules
The embryonic stem cell that the embryo of the mouse of the domain of the HLA-A molecules from people's MHC I classes establishes is changed to, and then, by the embryo
Tire stem cell establishes internal organs by the mouse of humanization. 
 Generally, when people's cell is transplanted into the fetus of mouse, the cell survives in Mice Body, therefore made mouse
It is referred to as the mouse of humanization on a cellular level. 
 But such humanization mouse remains the cell from the mouse as host, therefore it is not that internal organs are complete
Total replacement is the internal organs from people, is not necessarily most suitable mouse in terms of the functional analyses of the internal organs, research is carried out.In addition,
In order to make most suitable mouse, it is necessary to carry out various genetic modifications, but can not be carried out using individual mice. 
 Therefore, in the present invention, established most by the mouse of the liver of humanization to establish the cell with 100%
It is adapted to the genetic modification mouse of humanization.For the genetic modification mouse, carried out from initial stage caused by individual using humanization as
The further investigation of target, as a result successfully by normal mouse and HHB mouse establishing embryonic stem cell, (hereinafter referred to as " ES is thin
Born of the same parents ").Gomphosis mouse also has been made using the ES cells, has also successfully made the reproduction gomphosis mouse for carrying out germline transmission. 
 In the present invention, target ES cells are successfully established by HHB mouse, as described later, also successfully by normal small
Mouse establishes target ES cells. 
 The mouse of the present invention is that all or part of domain in the H2-D molecules of mouse MHC I classes is replaced into from people
The mouse of the domain of the HLA-A molecules of MHC I classes. 
 MHC I quasi-molecules are to pass through Non-covalent binding as the α chains of heavy chain and 2 B2M chains as light chain
And formed dimer, peptide antigen it is in connection and with trimeric form in cell surface expression.I quasi-molecules include 1~α of α 3 this
3 extracellular spaces, trans-membrane region and these domains of intracellular space.Wherein, turn into and be by the molecular replacement from mouse
The domain (chain) of the object of molecule from people is α chains (chains of 1~α of α 3) and B2M chain.In the present invention, can be with
By whole domain substitute behave, but preferably make the domains of α 3 for mouse type, by beyond α 3 domain substitute behave
(Fig. 1). 
 In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, mouse of the invention is the H2-D genoids and b2- microballoon eggs for destroying mouse
White gene and the α 1 imported in the HLA-A2.1 genes of someone and the mouse of the domains of α 2.In this approach, only a3 domains
For the domain from mouse.The mouse is referred to as " HHB mouse ". 
 In addition, in the present invention, in order that liver function is in long-term interior maintenance and confirms security, and establishing has people
The mouse of normal liver.And then in order to establish with there is the people patient symptom identical disease model of liver diseases and analyze
Mouse that is ill and establishing the liver that made a variation with people.And then established to develop the high new treatment method of versatility to people
The most suitable model mice of disease. 
 2. the making of mouse 
 The mouse of the present invention is that all or part of domain in the H2-D molecules using mouse MHC I classes is replaced into source
The mouse made from the embryo of the mouse of the domain of the HLA-A molecules of people's MHC I classes. 
 In the mouse, H2-D and b2- microglobulin genes are knocked, carried out in the position using people HLA-A2.1 genes
Displacement.It is preferred that α 1 and the domains of α 2 by the gene code from people, the domains of α 3 by the gene code (Fig. 1) from mouse.
The gene of molecule shown in code pattern 1 (left frame) is referred to as " HHD genes ", referred to as " HHB is small by the mouse with HHD genes
Mouse ".HHB mouse be it is established (Pascolo, S., Bervas, N., Ure, J.M., Smith, A.G., Lemonnier,
F.A.and Perarnau,B.HLA-A2.1-restricted education and cytolytic activity of
CD8+T lymphocytes from b2microglobulin(b2m)HLA-A2.1monochain transgenic H-2Db
b2m double knockout mice.J.Exp.Med.185:2043-2051,1997)。 
 This has knocked out the preparation method of the mouse of H2-D and b2- microglobulin genes and has been recorded on the details of the gene
Pacolo et al.J.Exp.Med.185:2043-2051, in 1997, it can generally utilize method well known in the art, example
Such as made (Capecchi, M.R., Science, (1989) 244,1288-1292) using the method for targeting vector.This method
It make use of the homologous recombination of the H2-D and b2- microglobulin genes and the gene on targeting vector in ES cells. 
 It should be noted that HHB mouse can also obtain from Kumamoto University life the Study on Resources support center.By making this
A little mouse and commercially available C57BL/6 mouse backcross, can respectively obtain the genetic background for having same strain with C57BL/6 mouse
H2-D defects (-/-) mouse and b2- microglobulins defect (-/-) mouse. 
 On the making of H2-D genes and b2- microglobulin genes both double knock-out mices of defect, make first
C57BL/6-H2-D defects mouse mates with C57BL/6-b2- microglobulin defect mouse and obtains F1, then makes to hand between F1
Match somebody with somebody and obtain F2 mouse.Then, double defect mouse of H2-D defects (-/-) and b2- microglobulins defect (-/-) are selected therefrom
(C57BL/6-H2-D -/- ：B2- microglobulins -/- Mouse).As C57BL/6-H2-D -/- ：B2- microglobulins -/- Mouse
System of selection, for example, can by PCR methods or southern blotting technique method (Southern blot) come confirm H2-D and b2- microglobulins this
The defect of two genes. 
 And then the method that HHD gene injections to mouse fertilized egg are obtained to transgenic mice (Tg (HHD) mouse) is recorded
In Pacolo et al.J.Exp.Med.185:2043-2051,1997.By making the mouse and C57BL/6-H2-D -/- ：b2-
Microglobulin -/- Mating, can obtain C57BL/6-H2-D -/- ：B2- microglobulins -/- ：Tg (HHD) (i.e. HHB mouse) (Fig. 1). 
 In addition to HHD genes, it can also be people by the entire infrastructure domain displacement in mouse H2-D molecules, can also incite somebody to action
Domain beyond the domains of α 3 keeps mouse type, and the gene of domain as coding can pass through conventional gene engineering side
Method obtains. 
 The foundation of 3.ES cells 
 The ES cells of the present invention can by the presence of the GSK3 inhibitor and mek inhibitor to gathering from as above obtaining
The embryo of mouse is cultivated to obtain. 
 For example, in the case of using HHB mouse, it is first, thin to embryonated egg or 2 by the female mouse of HHB by after fertilization
Born of the same parents phase embryo is cultivated and is obtained or directly obtained blastaea.Fertilization is carried out by natural mating or method in vitro fertilization.Body
Outer fertilization from the sperm of male mouse by being cultivated to carry out ovum obtained from making female mouse superovulation and collection. 
 Then, by the blastaea of collection or inner cell mass in animal cell culture culture medium and in GSK-3 inhibitor
And cultivated in the presence of mek inhibitor about 1~3 week, preferably 14-18 days. 
 GSK-3 (glycogen synthase kinase 3) is serine/threonine protein kitase, for act on be related to glycogen generation,
Apoptosis, stem cell maintenance etc. many signal paths enzyme.As GSK-3 inhibitor, can enumerate：CHIR99021 (is provided
Person：With the pure medicine of light), 6- bromines indigo red -3 '-oxime (6-Bromoindirubin-3 '-oxime (BIO)) (supplier：It is pure with light
Medicine) etc..The addition of GSK-3 inhibitor in the medium is 0.1~10 μM (micromole), preferably 0.3~3 μM.GSK-3 presses down
The addition period of preparation in the medium is not particularly limited, preferably since the culture of blastaea add. 
 MAPK kinases (MAP Kinase Kinase (MEK)) is active, presses down to suppress for mek inhibitor
The kinases inhibitor of ERK1/ERK2 processed activation.As mek inhibitor, can enumerate for example：PD0325901 (is provided
Person：With the pure medicine of light), U0126 (suppliers：Promega) etc..The addition of PD0325901 inhibitor in the medium is without spy
Do not limit, for example, 3 μM. 
 Condition of culture is not particularly limited, such as in about 37 DEG C, 5%CO 2 Atmosphere in carry out.Secondary Culture can be with 3
The interval of~4 days, on MEC (MEF) feeder layer or it is coated with clostridiopetidase A I flat board and carries out. 
 As culture medium, such as GMEM culture mediums (Glasgow ' s Minimal Essential can be enumerated
Medium), DMEM (Dulbecco modified Eagle medium), RPMI1640 culture mediums etc..Can be from KSR (Knockout
Serum Replacement, knock out serum substitute), hyclone (FBS), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF),
Selected in beta -mercaptoethanol, nonessential amino acid, glutamic acid, Sodium Pyruvate and antibiotic (such as penicillin, streptomysin etc.) etc.
And suitably it is added in culture culture medium. 
 After cultivating the stipulated time, by being incubated in the culture medium containing EDTA or clostridiopetidase A IV to reclaim ES cells.Institute
The ES cells of recovery can also exist in feeder cells or be cultivated in the presence of non-repeatedly to be passed on as needed.Need
It is noted that the culture without the inner cell mass under conditions of feeder layer can be carried out in the culture medium tamed with MEF. 
 The ES cells cultivated can generally be identified using their marker gene.Mark base as ES cells
Cause, it can enumerate such as Oct3/4, alkaline phosphatase, Sox2, Nanog, GDF3, REX1, FGF4.Marker gene or gene production
The presence of thing can be detected using any means such as PCR or Western blottings. 
 Alternatively, it is also possible to confirm this by the detection of SNP marker or by the analysis of PCR-based or southern blotting technique method
Whether whether the ES cells of invention be target cell, be BALB/c.For example, the SNP of mouse Database Publishing is in http：//
Www.broadinstitute.org/snp/mouse, it then can confirm that as BALB/c, sentence according to SNP information using the database
Break as the ES cells of the present invention. 
 As above the ES cells obtained are referred to as " HHB10 ", on June 17th, 2015 (preservation day) in national Advanced Industrial Science
Technical college, International Patent Organism collection (total sickle foot 2-5-8 in Mu Geng Jinshi City of 〒 292-0818 Chiba county) are reached based on cloth
This treaty of wearing has carried out international accession.Its preserving number is " NITE BP-02068 ". 
 The details of above-mentioned ES cells are as described below. 
 On the ES cell method for building up using GSK inhibitor and mek inhibitor, existing paper publishing, resulting ES
Cell inherits the hereditary property of original system and containing respective distinctive feature. 
 In preliminary experiment, attempt to establish ES cells using GMEM-KSR culture mediums in the past used, but be only capable of establishing and increase
Grow excessively poor cell line, even if making gomphosis mouse using the cell line, also can only obtain 50% or so it is chimeric, and to kind
System (germ line) does not also benefit.On the other hand, in the present invention, by being added to culture medium to the undifferentiated of maintenance ES
The effective GSK3 of state inhibitor and MEK inhibitor, can establish target ES cells.The proliferative ability of the ES cells of the present invention
Height, it is fitted together to also high.The reason for this is that compared with the ES cells made using previous methods, undifferentiated state is maintained well.
One of important signal to be worked in the differentiation of ES cells is the ERK/MEK paths from FGF4 via FGF receptor.That is, ERK
Signal as differentiation works.In addition, GSK-3 to b- serial elements by carrying out phosphorylation to stimulate Wnt signals, so as to induce
Differentiation.Therefore, by using this 2 inhibitor (2i) of the PD0325901 and GSK3 inhibitor as strong mek inhibitor, this hair
Bright ES cells can suppress to break up, maintain pluripotency. 
 4. genetic modification 
 In order to establish the genetic modification mouse of most suitable humanization, it is necessary in the stage of ES cells rather than as adult
The mouse stage by endogenous gene displacement for people, or people's gene imported after ES cells by the genetic modification and/or base
Mouse is made because importing ES cells. 
 Therefore, in the present invention, in order to import target gene or by endogenic gene substitution in ES cells to ES cells
For people's gene, using the homologous recombination based on following system, the system is：Cre- as the recombination system from bacteriophage
LoxP systems, the VCre-Vlox systems as the recombination system from vibrio bacterium, the weight as the autoploid that make use of Cre
The Dre/rox systems of system system or the system that these recombination systems are modified. 
 1oxP (locus of crossing (X-ring) over, P1) is by 34 base (5 '-ATAACTTCGTATA
GCATACAT TATACGAAGTTAT-3 ') form sequence (sequence number 1), from 5 ' ends ing 13 bases (be referred to as reversely weigh
Complex sequences 1) and the sequence (being referred to as inverted repeats 2) of 13 bases from 3 ' ends form inverted repeats respectively,
Between above-mentioned inverted repeats 1 and 2 being clipped in as the sequence for being referred to as spacer region of 8 bases shown in " GCATACAT " (Fig. 2).
" inverted repeats " refers to using the spacer region sequence complementary when relative to each other as the sequence on border, the sequence of side and opposite side
Row. 
 Cre (causes recombination) refers to the recombinase (also referred to as recombinase) for causing genetic recombination,
It identifies above-mentioned repetitive sequence and is cut off " cataca " of spacer moieties in a manner of forming the cut-out of viscous end. 
 Wherein, in bacterium, recombinated between 1oxP at 2, insertion occurs or deletes reaction (Fig. 2).If can be
Cause intercalation reaction in cells of mamma animals, be then hereafter inserted into arbitrary gene, therefore, application is extremely extensive.Due to feeding
The core of newborn class cell is larger, and therefore, the cyclic DNA with temporarily deleted loxP can spread, and it is anti-to be barely perceivable insertion
Should. 
 Therefore, in order to cause intercalation reaction, the present inventor contemplates following manner：In 1oxP sequences import variation and it is temporary
When gene is inserted into genome, then the gene inserted can not be deleted and (do not departed from from genome), be designed for this more
Kind anomaly 1oxP (lox66, lox71, lox511, lox2272) (Fig. 2).These anomalies 1oxP is known (WO01/
No. 005987 publication, Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2007-100 publications). 
 In addition, in the present invention, the system for being referred to as Vlox can also be utilized.Vlox is as from vibrio bacteria
VCre-Vlox (Suzuki, E., Nakayama, M.VCre/VloxP the and SCre/CloxP of recombination system：new site-
specific recombination systems for genome engineering.Nucleic Acid Res.2011,
1-11), can utilize (Fig. 2) such as Vlox43L, Vlox43R, Vlox2272. 
 1oxP, anomaly 1oxP and Vlox system base sequence are shown in following (Fig. 2). 
 1oxP：ATAACTTCGTATAGCATACATTATACGAAGTTAT (sequence number 1) 
 lox71：TACCGTTCGTATAGCATACATTATACGAAGTTAT (sequence number 2) 
 lox66：ATAACTTCGTATAGCATACATTATACGAACGGTA (sequence number 3) 
 lox511：ATAACTTCGTATAGTATACATTATACGAAGTTAT (sequence number 4) 
 lox2272：ATAACTTCGTATAGGATACTTTATACGAAGTTAT (sequence number 5) 
 Vlox：TCAATTTCTGAGAACTGTCATTCTCGGAAATTGA (sequence number 6) 
 Vlox43L：CGTGATTCTGAGAACTGTCATTCTCGGAAATTGA (sequence number 7) 
 Vlox43R：TCAATTTCTGAGAACTGTCATTCTCGGAATACCT (sequence number 8) 
 Vlox2272：TCAATTTCTGAGAAGTGTCTTTCTCGGAAATTGA (sequence number 9) 
 And then, in the present invention it is possible to using Dre/rox systems. 
 Dre refers to D6- locus specificity DNA recombinases, is enzyme (Sauer, the B.and of the sequence for identifying following rox sites
McDermott,Nucic Acid.Res.32：6086-6095,2004).The weight of the recombinase and rox recognition sequences will be make use of
System is referred to as Dre/rox systems.The system and Cre-lox systems are closely related, but the DNA specificity identified is different. 
 Lox and rox base sequence is shown in following. 
 rox：5 '-TAACTTTAAATAATGCCAATTATTTAAAGTTA-3 ' (sequence number 10) 
 3 '-ATTGAAATTTATTACGGTTAATAAATTTCAAT-5 ' (sequence number 11) 
 lox：5 '-ATAACTTCGTATAATGTATGCTATACGAAGTTAT-3 ' (sequence number 12) 
 3 '-TATTGAAGCATATTACATACGATATGCTTCAATA-5 ' (sequence number 13) 
 As described above, it is an object of the invention to establish the mouse with Normal human tissue, such as human liver organization, and then
Purpose, which also resides in, establishes tissue disease (such as liver diseases) model mice.Therefore, in the present invention, gene is carried out to ES cells
Operation so that toxin expressed in the cytoplasm of mouse liver cell and being capable of inducing mouse heptocellular death.In addition, in order to make
Make the mouse with people's normal liver, it is necessary to transplant human liver cell and make its propagation, therefore, in ES cells, by mouse growth
Hormone gene is replaced into human growth hormone gene.In addition, in order to analyze the functions such as drug metabolism, by mouse drug metabolism enzyme gene
Replace as people's drug metabolic enzyme gene. 
 The liver function for having imported the mouse of heptocellular death disappears, therefore the mouse is except that can be used as liver damage model
It is outer to utilize, the mouse of liver humanization can also be obtained by transplanting Human normal hepatocyte. 
 Fig. 3 is for by the structure figure of the homologous recombination vector of mouse growth hormone (GH) gene substitution behaviour GH genes. 
 In addition, Fig. 4 is for using as the homologous recombination of the Cyp gene substitution behaviour Cyp genes of drug metabolism enzyme gene
The structure figure of carrier. 
 Displacement from from murine genes to above-mentioned people's gene can be according to the gene trap described in WO01/005987 publications
Method is carried out.For example, carry out 2 stage gene traps using the carrier made as described above. 
 1st stage was conventional gene prize law.In conventional gene capture, above-mentioned capturing carrier is imported to ES cells,
Capture endogenous gene existing for the intracellular scripts of ES.Thus, the endogenous gene in ES cells is destroyed.Then, in plasmid
People's gene is connected to the downstream of lox sequences (such as 1ox66 etc.) on (replacement vector), carries out the gene trap (figure in the 2nd stage
3、4)。 
 In the gene trap in the 2nd stage, the people's gene (hGH, hCyp etc.) in the downstream for being connected to 1ox66 is imported into ES
Cell.Thus, by the 1st stage and the 1ox71 sites of capturing carrier that import with passing through carrier that the 2nd stage imported
Recombinated between lox66, the modification base containing the box being made up of " (lox71/66)-(people's gene)-(loxP) " can be imported
Cause.It should be noted that puromycin resistance gene (puro) can be connected between people's gene and loxP. 
 , can be with employment gene substitution endogenous mouse genes according to this method.Fig. 3 and 4 shows to replace the figure of allele. 
 Here, in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4, Ex1, Ex2, Ex3 and Ex4 represent mouse growth hormone gene and mouse respectively
Exons 1~4, pA of Cyp3a13 genes represents poly A sequences, and Frt represents FLP recognition site, and PGK-neo represents connection
There is the neomycin resistance gene of PGK promoters, P-puro represents to be connected with the puromycin resistance gene of PGK promoters. 
 In the case of other internal organs, as long as the internal organs that can turn into organ transplantation object then can be with above-mentioned liver
Situation is equally carried out.That is, be produced on the gene that Cre-ERT2 is connected with internal organs or tissue-specific promoter, by the gene with
The carriers such as CAG-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A (construct 1 described later) import HHB ES cells together. 
 For example, in mouse of the making heart by humanization, as long as being produced on the α MHC as heart muscle specific promoter
Cre-ERT2 gene (MC is connected with (α-myosin heavy chain, myoglobulin heavy chain) promoter：α-myosin
Heavy chain-Cre-ERT2) and the gene is imported into HHB ES together with CAG-loxP-EGFP-loxP-DT-A (CD)
Cell, you can make HHB：MCCD mouse.If the heart transplant Human Cardiomyocytes of the fetus to the mouse, then bestow him not
Former times is fragrant, then can make the heart humanization mouse that mouse cardiac myocytes are disappeared, only Human Cardiomyocytes are survived.If in foetal period
Human Cardiomyocytes are transplanted, then Human Cardiomyocytes can avoid rejection, therefore can also bestow tamoxifen after adult is formed
It is fragrant or by coronary artery ligation, myocardial infarction model is thus made, then transplants Human Cardiomyocytes. 
 5. the making of gomphosis mouse 
 The making of gomphosis mouse can be carried out with the method for standard. 
 First, the ES cells for making above-mentioned foundation or the ES cells and 8 cell stage embryos of the importing or the displacement that have carried out gene
Blastaea is assembled or be injected into tire.As above the embryo made is referred to as chimeric embryo, by the way that the chimeric embryo is transplanted to
The intrauterine of pseudo-pregnant foster person makes it produce and make gomphosis mouse. 
 For example, in the making of chimeric embryo, first, make using hormone preparation implemented ovulation processing female mouse and hero it is small
Mouse mates.Then, reclaimed after alloted days from fallopian tubal or uterus and embryo occurs initial stage.Make ES cells and the embryo of recovery
ES cells are injected in aggregation into the embryo of recovery, make chimera embryo. 
 Here, " embryo " refers to being in from the individual by the precise and penetrating antenatal stage in individual generation, 2 cell stages are included
Embryo, 4 cell stage embryos, 8 cell stage embryos, morula stage embryo, blastaea etc.., can be with using in the case of 8 cell stage embryos
Reclaimed the 2.5th day from fertilization from fallopian tubal or uterus and embryo occurs initial stage, in the case of using blastaea, Ke Yi
Reclaimed from fallopian tubal or uterus within the 3.5th day from fertilization and embryo occurs initial stage. 
 As the method for making aggregate using ES cells and embryo, the public affairs such as microinjection, aggregation method can be used
Perception method." aggregate " refers to ES cells and the aggregate that embryo assembles and formed in same space, also implies that ES is thin
Born of the same parents flow into any of the form of embryo, the form for making embryo be dispersed into individual cells and together assembling with ES cells. 
 In the case of using microinjection, inject ES cells in the embryo of recovery and make the aggregate of cell.
In addition, in the case of using aggregation method, as long as ES cells, which are sprinkling upon in the normal fetus for eliminate oolemma, makes its aggregation i.e.
Can. 
 On the other hand, can be by making the female mouse in normal sexual cycle with passing through for the female mouse of false pregnancy as replace-conceive person
The male mouse of the castrations such as vasoligation is mated to obtain.For made pseudopregnant mouse, above method system will be passed through
The chimeric embryo of work is transplanted to intrauterine, then makes its production, it is possible thereby to make gomphosis mouse. 
 Male mouse of the selection from ES cell transplantation embryos from such gomphosis mouse.Selected male gomphosis mouse
After maturation, the mouse is set to be mated with the female mouse of mouse inbred lines strain.Then, occur in the newborn mouse of birth from ES cells
Mouse by hair color, it is possible thereby to confirm that multipotent stem cells have been directed to the germline of gomphosis mouse. 
 6. the making of humanization mouse 
 (1) it is best suitable for the making of the genetic modification mouse of humanization 
 As described later, transgenic mice, the i.e. gene established using the ES cells of the importing or displacement that carry out gene is repaiied
Decorations mouse is the basic mouse for turning into the mouse for establishing the internal organs (such as liver) with 100% humanization. 
 Carrying out the transplanting of human liver cell by the yolk Nang veins via fetus due to specify that can avoid repelling
Reaction, therefore use normal mouse and the ES cells of HHB mouse. 
 (i) normal mouse： 
 As long as the inbred mouse having built up can just be applied.The present invention provides a kind of internal organs by the small of humanization
The preparation method of mouse, it is characterised in that the cell of the internal organs of people is derived to the yolk Nang vein transplantations of the fetus of normal mouse. 
 (ii) HHB mouse： 
 In the present invention, HHB mouse can also be used in addition to above-mentioned inbred mouse.HHB mouse are in C57BL/6
The defect of H2-D and b2- microglobulin genes is imported with the genetic background of mouse and is imported with the mouse of HHD genes. 
 (2) making of liver damage model mouse 
 For liver damage model mouse, toxin expression is set to remove mouse liver cell by bestowing antiestrogenic agent
(making its disappearance), it is possible thereby to make the damage model mouse for losing liver function. 
 In order that mouse liver cell disappears, alsos for expressing Cre-ER in the cytoplasm of mouse liver cell T2 , make following
Construct 1 and construct 2.Cre-ER T2 To be connected with the carrier that Cre recombinates enzyme gene and anomaly female hormone receptor gene,
The anomaly female hormone receptor gene is modified in the way of not combined with caused estrogen in mammality body. 
 Construct 1： 
 CAG-ATG-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A 
 Construct 2： 
 SAP-Cre-ER T2   
 Construct 1 be have (i) ATG, (ii) by the lox EGFP clamped in the downstream connection close to CAG promoters and
(iii) DT-A (Diphtheria toxin fragment A) construct. 
 EGFP initiation codon designs with the ATG of rox upstreams in a manner of framework matches.In addition, remove DT-A's
Initiation codon, and designed in a manner of the ATG frameworks with rox upstreams match. 
 Construct 2 is close to liver cell specific serum Amyloid P component (serum amyloid P
component：SAP the downstream connection of promoter) has Cre-ER T2 Construct. 
 By the way that these constructs 1 and 2 to be imported to the ES cells of the present invention altogether, TAM can bestowed
(Tamoxifen) locus specificity restructuring, the specific expressed diphtheria toxin of liver cell and inducing cell death occur afterwards. 
 That is, the antiestrogenic agent of non-steroidal, such as TAM (Tamoxifen) are by competitive with estrogen
Ground is incorporated into ERs and shows estrogenic antagonist, so as to the material with antitumor activity.If to expressing Dre-
ER T2 Humanization mouse bestow TAM, then Dre-ER T2 Core is transferred to by TAM.Weight occurs between 2 rox
Group, the promoter of diphtheria toxin gene play a role.Thus, toxin DT-A is expressed, and the liver cell of mouse disappears (Fig. 5). 
 TAM bestow number and as long as the period of bestowing can make liver cell disappear just to be not particularly limited, such as such as
Lower progress. 
 From gestation the 18.5th day, TAM is mixed with the ratio of 0.1g/200g feeds with powder feed.After 2 days
Farrowing, now gives normal diet 3 days.Then, the feed of same concentration is given again 1 week, then give normal diet 3 days.So
Persistently give the feed of same concentration again afterwards. 
 (3) liver cell is replaced into the making of the humanization mouse of human liver cell 
 As described above, the mouse that liver cell is replaced into human liver cell is thin to remove Mouse Liver by bestowing antiestrogenic agent
Born of the same parents and human liver cell is transplanted in mouse, it is hereby achieved that liver cell is replaced into the humanization mouse of human liver cell. 
 In order to maintain liver function for a long time and confirm security, it is necessary to establish the mouse with people's normal liver. 
 (i) mouse growth hormone gene is replaced into the making of the ES cells of people's gene 
 In order that the human liver cell after transplanting can breed, it is people to replace mouse growth hormone gene in ES cell stages
Gene. 
 Specifically, the gene substitution of ES cells is carried out as described above with 2 steps. 
 In the 1st step, using being imported with SAP-Cre-ER T2 With CAG-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A normal cell
(it is referred to as ES：SAP-Cre-ER T2 ；CAG-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A(ES：SCCD)) and HHB ES cells (are referred to as HHB ES：
SAP-Cre-ER T2 ；CAG-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A(HHB ES：SCCD homologous recombination)) is carried out, is established in initiation codon
Place destroys mouse growth hormone gene and has lox71-PGK-neo-loxP ES cells (ES in region restructuring：SCCD；
Gh neo ) or HHB ES cells (HHB ES：SCCD；Gh neo )。 
 In the 2nd step, using the ES cells and replacement vector, it can establish instead of neo genes and recombinate life
Long hormone gene cDNA ES cells (ES：SCCD；Gh hGH Or HHB ES：SCCD；Gh hGH )。 
 Using the ES cells as above established, it can obtain producing the mouse of human growth hormone (HGH). 
 (ii) removing of mouse liver cell and undifferentiated liver cell 
 Bestowing for TAM and bestows period as described above at number. 
 (iii) making of the human liver cell to be transplanted 
 The human liver cell to be transplanted can be induced by iPS cells. 
 On human liver cell, can by people iPS cells using sertoli cell, extracellular matrix establish efficient entoderm and
Hepatic differentiation abductive approach. 
 IPS cells can by by encode including Oct, Sox, Klf, Myc, Nanog, Lin etc. including family member 3~
The channel genes of 6 transcription factors (core initialization factor) are induced (Takahashi, K., et into body cell
al.Induction of pluripotent stem cells from fibroblast cultures.Nat.Protoc.2,
3081-9(2007)；Fusaki N,Ban H,Nishiyama A,Saeki K,Hasegawa M.Efficient
induction of transgene-free human pluripotent stem cells using a vector based
on Sendai virus,an RNA virus that does not integrate into the host
genome.Proc Jpn Acad Ser B Phys Biol Sci.2009；85(8):348-62.). 
 As Oct family members, can enumerate for example：Oct3/4, Oct1A, Oct6 etc., preferably Oct3/4. 
 As Sox (SRY correlation HMG boxes) family member, can enumerate for example：Sox1、Sox2、Sox3、Sox7、Sox15
Deng preferably Sox2. 
 As Klf (Kruppel like factors) family member, can enumerate for example：Klf1, Klf2, Klf4, Klf5 etc., it is excellent
Select Klf4. 
 As Myc family members, c-Myc, N-Myc, L-Myc etc., preferably c-Myc can be enumerated. 
 Nanog is that homeobox egg that is most, not expressed in noble cells is expressed in the inner cell mass of blastaea
In vain. 
 As Lin family members, can enumerate for example as undifferentiated people ES cells mark Lin28. 
 More specifically, as transcription factor, preferably Oct3/4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc combination (Takahashi,
K.and Yamanaka, S., Cell 126,663-676 (2006)), it can additionally use Oct3/4, Sox2 and Klf4 group
Conjunction or Oct3/4, Sox2, Klf4 and L-Myc combination. 
 As body cell, can enumerate such as Skin Cell, liver cell, fibroblast, lymphocyte. 
 Such as lipofection, electroporation can be enumerated to the electroinjection of body cell, microinjection, utilizes viral vector
Importing etc., be not particularly limited.As viral vector, such as retroviral vector, slow virus carrier, adenopathy can be enumerated
Poisonous carrier, adeno-associated virus vector, sendai virus etc..Commercially available carrier, such as sendai virus vector can also be utilized
(DNAVEC)。 
 Using in the case of carrier, in order that the gene imported can express, shape that can also be that can work
Formula is attached with regulatory sequences such as promoter and enhancers.As promoter, have for example CMV promoter, RSV promoters,
SV40 promoters etc..These carriers can further contain drug resistance gene (such as puromycin resistance gene, neomycin resistance
Gene, ampicillin resistance gene, hygromycin gene etc.) etc. favorable selection mark, negative itemsets mark (such as diphtheria
Toxin A fragment genes or thymidine kinase gene etc.), Internal ribosome entry site (IRES (internal ribosome
Entry site)), terminator, replication orgin etc.. 
 If by body cell (such as 0.5 × 10 4 ~5 × 10 6 Cell/100mm plates) at about 37 DEG C, on MEF feeder layers
Or without carrier of the transfection containing above-mentioned core initialization factor under conditions of feeder layer and cultivated, then lured after about 1~4 week
Export iPS cells. 
 As culture medium, such as GMEM culture mediums (Glasgow ' s Minimal Essential can be enumerated
Medium), DMEM (Dulbecco modified Eagle medium), RPMI1640 culture mediums, OPTI-MEMI culture mediums etc..Can be with
From KSR (Knockout serum replacements), hyclone (FBS), activin-A (activin-A), basic fibroblast life
The long factor (bFGF), retinoic acid, dexamethasone, beta -mercaptoethanol, nonessential amino acid, glutamic acid, Sodium Pyruvate and antibiotic
Selected in (such as penicillin, streptomysin etc.) etc. and be suitably added to culture culture medium. 
 Cultivate the stipulated time after, when cultivating ES cells in the same manner as, by the culture medium containing EDTA or clostridiopetidase A IV
It is middle to be incubated to reclaim cell.Under conditions of without feeder layer, can by cell on the flat board of matrigel is coated with, with
Carried out in culture medium after MEF domestications. 
 Generally, the induction from iPS cells to human liver cell is carried out by 3 stages.As principle, following institute
State： 
 (a) induction from multipotent stem cells to entoderm system； 
 (b) induction from entoderm system to prematurity liver cell；And 
 (c) induction of the immature liver cell to mature hepatocytes. 
 In above-mentioned (a), activin A, Wnt signals are more important, and in (b), FGF, BMP are more important, and, in (c), liver
Porcine HGF (hepatocyte growth factor), oncostatin (Oncostatin), dexamethasone
(Dexamethasone) it is more important. 
 But the step of above-mentioned (b) and (c), can suitably be replaced by DMSO, retinoic acid, FGF4, hydrocortisone. 
 Human liver cell transplanting period for gestation the 15.5th day or birth 8 weeks before and after adult mouse. 
 The transplanted cells number of human liver cell is preferably 10 5 ~10 6 It is individual. 
 On the transplanting approach of human liver cell, noted in the case of embryo from yolk Nang veins (yolk sac vessel)
Enter and transplanted (Fig. 6).In the case of adult, it is injected into spleen. 
 (iv) propagation of human liver cell 
 The mouse of the ES cells foundation of human growth hormone gene is replaced into using mouse growth hormone gene to be produced
Human growth hormone (HGH).The human growth hormone (HGH) acts on transplanted human liver cell, promotes its growth, can establish with normal size
People's liver humanization liver mouse. 
 The confirmation of human liver cell this point is replaced on mouse liver cell whole (100%), Mouse Liver is not present
The confirmation of cell this point, it can be carried out using the expression for the gene that the analysis such as RT-PCR methods is expressed in mouse liver. 
 (4) evaluation of humanization liver mouse 
 Liver and by the following item of individual inspiration or by following item proper combination can be checked by humanization this point
To be confirmed. 
 (i) inspection of liver function 
 As the inspection project for examining liver function, for example following project can be enumerated.The inspection phase does not limit especially
It is fixed, preferably carry out more than 1 year. 
 Albumen is related：Total protein, ALB, TTT, ZTT, CRP, haptoglobin, C3, C4 
 Non-protein nitrogen component：Total bilirubin, bilirubin direct 
 Saccharic：Glucose 
 Lipid：Triglyceride, T-CHOL, HDL- cholesterol, LDL- cholesterol, ApoAI, ApoCII 
 Enzyme：Lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate aminotransferase (AST (GOT)), ALT (ALT
(GPT)), gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT), creatine kinase (CK), alkaline phosphatase (AP), amylase (AML) 
 It is other：Calcium, Fe, inorganic phosphate 
 ICG is checked：Bestow indocyanine green (ICG) through vein, through when determine ICG concentration in blood, check the pigment of liver
Excretory function.ICG and the lipoprotein in blood with reference to and be transported to liver, by being absorbed during blood sinus by liver cell, do not connect
Drained by obvolvent to bile, therefore, can analyze liver it is overall as internal organs function rather than analyze the work(of liver cell
Energy. 
 CT examination：Check the metamorphosis of liver. 
 (ii) drug metabolism 
 Following drug metabolism relevant enzyme is analyzed using PCR Array Methods. 
 Cytochrome P450：CYP11A1、CYP11B1、CYP11B2、CYP17A1、CYP19A1、CYP1A1、CYP1A2、
CYP1B1、CYP21A2、CYP24A1、CYP26A1、CYP26B1、CYP26C1、CYP27A1、CYP27B1、CYP2A13、
CYP2R1、CYP2S1、CYP2B6、CYP2C18、CYP2C19、CYP2C8、CYP2C9、CYP2D6、CYP2E1、CYP2F1、
CYP2W1、CYP3A4、CYP3A11、CYP3A13、CYP3A43、CYP3A5、CYP3A7、CYP3A25、CYP3A41、CYP4A11、
CYP4A22、CYP4B1、CYP4F11、CYP4F12、CYP4F2、CYP4F3、CYP4F8、CYP7A1、CYP7B1、CYP8B1。 
 It is in the present invention, it is preferred at least one kind of in by CYP3A11, CYP3A13, CYP3A25 and CYP3A41. 
 It should be noted that endogenic drug metabolism relative enzyme gene in mouse cell is small with external application except initial
Write to represent.For example, " CYP11A1 " gene of people is denoted as " Cyp11a1 " gene, " CYP3A11 " of people in the case of mouse
Gene is denoted as " Cyp3a11 " gene in the case of mouse. 
 Alcohol dehydrogenase：ADH1A、ADH1B、ADH1C、ADH4、ADH5、ADH6、ADH7、DHRS2、HSD17B10
(HADH2)。 
 Esterase：AADAC、CEL、ESD、GZMA、GZMB、UCHL1、UCHL3. 
 Aldehyde dehydrogenase：ALDH1A1、ALDH1A2、ALDH1A3、ALDH1B1、ALDH2、ALDH3A1、ALDH3A2、
ALDH3B1、ALDH3B2、ALDH4A1、ALDH5A1、ALDH6A1、ALDH7A1、ALDH8A1、ALDH9A1。 
 Flavin containing monooxygenase：FMO1、FMO2、FMO3、FMO4、FMO5. 
 Monoamine oxidase：MAOA、MAOB. 
 Prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase：PTGS1、PTGS2. 
 Xanthine dehydrogenase：XDH. 
 Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase：DPYD. 
 (iii) tested in vitro of hepatocyte function 
 Because liver cell is derived from entoderm, therefore, by inquiry entoderm system and expression of liver cell gene through when table
Reach, the accumulation of glycogen, the expression of cytochromes enzyme etc., whether can verify that has the function of people's liver. 
 The gene expressed in entoderm system and liver cell through when expression can use Oct3/4, T, Gsc, Mixl1,
Foxa2, Hex, Hnf4a, Hnf6, Afp, Alb, Ttr, α AT etc. are examined.Its method of inspection be, for example, in general RNA blottings,
RT-PCR methods, immunoblotting. 
 The secretion capacity of liver cell can be resisted by the ALB in nutrient solution, transferrins (transferring), alpha1
Trypsase (alpha1-antitrypsin), the concentration mensuration of fibrinogen (fibrinogen) are examined.Its inspection party
Method is, for example, in general immunoblotting or EIA (ELISAs；Enzyme-immuno assay) method. 
 The accumulation of glycogen can pass through PAS (periodic acid-schiff staining reactions；Periodic acid-Schiff) dye and
Examine.Periodic acid optionally oxidizing glucose residue and generate aldehyde, Schiff's reagent effect under discoloration be reddish violet. 
 Cytochromes enzyme expression can by 5 main cytochromes, i.e. CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C9,
CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 analysis is examined.Its method of inspection is, for example, in general RNA blottings, RT-PCR methods, protein print
Mark method. 
 (5) making for the liver diseases model mice replaced using the liver cell from people patient 
 Liver cell of the mouse transplanting from people patient to the present invention, and bestow antiestrogenic agent and remove from mouse
Liver cell, it is hereby achieved that people's liver diseases model mice. 
 In order to establish with people patient symptom identical disease model and analysis morbid state, it is necessary to establish with people's variation liver
Mouse.Then can be utilized in the high new cure of the model for being best suitable for human disease, exploitation versatility is established. 
 Hereinafter, the present invention is further specifically illustrated by embodiment.But the present invention is not implemented by these
Example limits.It should be noted that on being induced, by multiple from human familial's amyloidosis by the liver cell iPS cells
The iPS cells that the patient of neuropathic patient or people propionic acidemia rises establish, using the human liver cell induced to mouse
Transplantation experiments etc., to Ethics Committee, the zoopery committee, the 2nd kind of recombinant DNA experiment safety committee application and whole
Permitted. 
 
 
 Embodiment 1 
 The foundation of ES cells 
 In the present embodiment, in order to establish the most suitable mouse of humanization of most suitable human liver cell transplanting, by HHB mice embryonics
The foundation of ES cell lines is carried out, also establishes mouse species. 
 (1) foundation of HHB mouse and its foundation of ES cell lines 
 Using HHB mouse, carry out in vitro fertilization and obtain 33 blastaea embryos, by for maintaining ES undifferentiated state to have
The CHIR99021 of the inhibitor as GSK3 of effect and it is added to as the PD0325901 of MEK inhibitor in culture medium
ES is established in (GMEM-KSR-2i culture mediums), trial. 
 Specifically, collection HHB in vitro fertilization embryo is passed through.33 blastaeas are cultivated 4 days directly on KSOM culture mediums
To blastular is formed, 1 embryo is respectively put into 48 holes (only coating gelatin).The culture medium used is cultivated for KSR-GMEM-2i
Base.As the culture medium form, in G-MEM (Glasgow minimum essential medium) containing 1X MEM are non-must
Need amino acid, 0.1mM beta -mercaptoethanols, 1mM Sodium Pyruvates, 1% hyclone (FBS) (Hyclone), 14%Knockout TM 
SR (KSR), 1100 units/ml LIF ELISAs (LIF), 2 μM of PD0325901 and 3 μM of CHIR99021.Culture period is
14 days, midway carried out 2 subculture replacings.Start after 14 days to after 18 days, from ICM gradually increased hole to thin with feeder layer
Passed in 24 holes of born of the same parents.And then passed on successively into 12 orifice plates, 6 orifice plates, 6cm culture dishes, finally it has been successfully established 21
The ES strains that individual growth rate and form all have no problem. 
 (2) the gomphosis mouse making and the foundation of HHB mouse species of HHB ES cell lines have been used 
 Using 12 cell lines in the ES strains being successfully established, with the mulberries as obtained from B6 is female and what BDF1 was male mates
Embryo is assembled, and thus carries out the making (table 1) of gomphosis mouse. 
 By obtained by 3 ES systems (HHB-3, HHB-9 and HHB-10) the 100% chimeric transmission confirmed to germline. 
 It should be noted that the 10th cell line in obtained ES cells is referred to as " HHB10 ", June 17 in 2015
Day (preservation day) is deposited in national Advanced Industrial Science technical college, International Patent Organism collection (〒 292-0818 Chiba
Total sickle foot 2-5-8 in Mu Geng Jinshi City of county) international accession carried out based on budapest treaty.Its preserving number is " NITE BP-
02068”。 
 [table 1] 
 
 
 
 
 
 Embodiment 2 
 The dead induction of mouse liver cell 
 (1) it is used for the making of the construct of inducing mouse heptocellular death 
 In order to make the genetic modification mouse that liver cell specificity can be made to disappear, two kinds of constructs have been made. 
 Construct 1 (CAG-ATG-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A) has ATG, quilt in the downstream connection close to CAG promoters
The EGFP and DT-A (Diphtheria toxin fragment A) of lox clampings. 
 EGFP initiation codon and the ATG of rox upstreams are designed in a manner of framework coincide.In addition, remove DT-A
Initiation codon, and be designed in a manner of the ATG frameworks with rox upstreams match. 
 (the SAP-CreER of construct 2 T2 ) close to liver cell specific serum Amyloid P component (serum
amyloid P component：SAP the downstream connection of promoter) has Cre-ER T2 .Moreover, connect in the upstream of SAP promoters
It is connected to puromycin resistance gene. 
 Specific method is as described below. 
 (1-1) construct 1 
 Construct 1 is such as got off making. 
 (i) p6SEAZ is subjected to restriction enzyme ferment treatment with PstI, pSP-rox2 is subjected to restriction enzyme with KpnI
Ferment treatment, flat end is made with T4 ligases (TaKaRa).Then, carry out restriction enzyme ferment treatment with EcoRI and connect, by
This makes pSP-lox-EGFP-lox. 
 (ii) by pSP-lox-EGFP-lox and pBSK-atg-rox2 (synthetic DNA, Biomatik companies) with EcoRI and
SmaI carries out restriction enzyme ferment treatment and connected, and thus makes pBSK-atg-lox-EGFP-lox. 
 (iii) pBSK-atg-lox-EGFP-lox and P71hAXC-DT is subjected to restriction enzyme with BamHI and PstI
Handle and connect, thus make pBSK-atg-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A. 
 (iv) pCAGGS-EGFP is subjected to restriction enzyme ferment treatment with KpnI, by pBSK-atg-lox-EGFP-lox-
DT-A carries out restriction enzyme ferment treatment with SpeI, and flat end is made with T4 polymerases (TaKaRa).Then, entered with Hind III
Row restriction enzyme ferment treatment simultaneously connects, and thus makes CAG-atg-lox-EGFP-lox-DT-A. 
 (1-2) construct 2 
 Construct 2 is such as got off making. 
 (i) using pkSAP-CrePP as template, with PCR to being expanded from initiation codon untill terminator codon.Instead
BamHI sites are attached with to primer. 
 PCR kit TaKaRa Ex Taq 
 Forward primer CCATGGCCCCCAAGAAGAAAA (sequence number 14) 
 Reverse primer CGGGATCCATGAGCCTGCTGTT (sequence number 15) 
 PGEM-T Easy Vector are connected with above-mentioned PCR primer, thus make T easy-Dre. 
 (ii) pkSAP-CrePP and T easy-Cre are subjected to restriction enzyme ferment treatment with SalI and EcoRI and carried out
Connection, thus make T Easy SAP. 
 (iii) above-mentioned T Easy Cre and T easy-SAP is subjected to restriction enzyme ferment treatment simultaneously with SacII and NotI
It is attached, thus makes T easy-SAP-Cre. 
 (iv) T Easy-SAP-Cre and pkSA-CremER are used T2 PP, restriction enzyme is carried out with BamHI and NotI
Handle and be attached, thus make T easy-SAP-CremER T2 。 
 (v) by pkSAP-CrePP and T easy-SAP-CremER T2 Restriction enzyme ferment treatment is carried out with SalI and NotI
And be attached, thus make pKSAP-CreER T2 。 
 (vi) pKSAP-CreERT2 is subjected to restriction enzyme ferment treatment with SpeI, pFPacpaF2 is limited with KpnI
Property inscribe ferment treatment processed, flat end is made with T4 polymerases (TaKaRa).Then, by pKSAP-CreER T2 Limited with SalI
Property inscribe ferment treatment, carries out restriction enzyme ferment treatment with XhoI by pFPacpaF2 and is connected, thus make Puro-
SAP-CreER T2 。 
 (2) importing of female hormone receptor gene and diphtheria toxin gene to ES cells 
 To being studied the condition of its high efficient expression during insertion people's gene 
 (Li,Z.et al.,Transgenic Res.20:191-200,2011.DOI10.1007/s11248-010-
9389-22)。 
 Expression efficiency is best when how to be combined by whetheing there is PGK- puromycins box and IRES to analyze. 
 Using homologous recombination vector, using conventional method (Zhao, G., Li, Z., Araki, K., Haruna, K.,
Yamaguchi,K.,Araki,M.,Takeya,M.,Ando,Y.and Yamamura,K.Inconsistency between
hepatic expression and serum concentration of transthyretin in mice humanized
at the transthyretin locus.Genes Cells 13：1257-1268,2008.) destroy mouse first shape in advance
1st extron of parathyrine transporter (Ttr) gene.The ATG for now obtaining the 1st extron is destroyed and is partially submerged at this
There is lox71-PGK-beta-geo-loxP-poly A-lox2272 target recombinant clone. 
 Then 2 kinds of replacement vectors are made.Replacement vector 1 contains lox66-hTTR cDNA-polyA-Frt-PGK-puro-
Frt-loxP.Replacement vector 2 contains lox66-IRES-hTTR cDNA-polyA-Frt-PGK-puro-Frt-loxP.By these
Replacement vector imported into target recombinant clone together with Cre expression vectors by electroporation respectively. 
 As a result, obtain lox71/66-hTTR cDNA-polyA-Frt-PGK-puro-Frt-loxP clones (referred to as
For I (-) P (+)) and lox71/66-IRES-hTTR cDNA-polyA-Frt-PGK-puro-Frt-loxP clones (abbreviation I (+)
P(+)).This 2 clones are respectively provided with PGK-puro, but I (-) P (+) does not have IRES. 
 CAG-FLP is imported into this 2 clones by electroporation, the PGK-puro between Frt is deleted, thus makes I (-)
P (-) and I (+) P (-) clone. 
 Cloned by above-mentioned 4 ES and make mouse and carry out expression analysis, as a result known：Expression highest in I (-) P (+),
And expression declines according to I (-) P (-), I (+) P (+), I (+) P (-) order.Know in addition：In the case of I (-) P (+), liver
In people TTR (transthyretin) expression and control mice in mouse Ttr (transthyretin) table
It is essentially identical up to level. 
 The result shows：Exist PGK- puromycins and in the absence of IRES combination in the case of, the people's gene that is inserted
Expression efficiency it is best. 
 
 
 Embodiment 3 
 Utilize the displacement of human growth hormone gene 
 Using homologous recombination vector, mouse growth hormone is destroyed in advance by conventional method similarly to Example 2
1st extron and exon 2 of (growth hormone, Gh) gene.Now obtain the 1st extron ATG it is destroyed and
In the target recombinant clone that this is partially submerged into lox71-PGK-beta-geo-loxP-poly A-lox2272.Then displacement is made
Carrier.Replacement vector contains lox66- genome hGH genes-polyA-Frt-PGK-puro-Frt-loxP.By the replacement vector
Target recombinant clone is imported into by electroporation with together with Cre expression vectors. 
 As a result, the Gh genes for obtaining mouse are replaced the ES clones for people's GH genes. 
 
 
 Embodiment 4 
 Utilize the displacement of people's drug metabolism enzyme gene 
 Destroy the 1st extron of mouse Cyp3a13 genes with homologous recombination vector in advance using conventional method.Now obtain
The ATG of 1st extron is destroyed and is partially submerged into lox71-PGK-beta-geo-loxP-poly A-lox2272's at this
Target recombinant clone.Then replacement vector is made.Replacement vector contains lox66-hCYP3A4cDNA-polyA-Frt-PGK-puro-
Frt-loxP.The replacement vector is imported into target recombinant clone together with Cre expression vectors by electroporation. 
 As a result, the Cyp3a13 genes for obtaining mouse are replaced the ES clones for people's CYP3A4 genes. 
 
 
 Embodiment 5 
 The making of liver humanization mouse 
 Substantially establish by the human liver cell method of inducing differentiation people's iPS cells, also carried out being used for inducing mouse liver
The making of the construct of cell death. 
 (1) induced by the hepatocyte differentiation people's iPS cells 
 Construct by efficient entoderm and the hepatic differentiation abductive approach people's iPS cells. 
 In order to be human liver cell by iPS cell differentiations, carried out from the first day by the 2nd day with the culture medium containing Rock inhibitor
Culture.Then, cultivated from the 3rd day by the 4th day with DMEM culture mediums.The DMEM culture mediums contain following component：4500mg/
L glucose, activin A (100ng/ml), CHIR99021 (3mm), bFGF (50ng/ml). 
 Then, 4500mg/l glucose, dexamethasone 1mm, HGF 10mm were added from the 4th day to the 13rd day
Cultivated. 
 Finally, cultivated from the 15th day by the 30th day with the DMEM culture mediums containing following component：10%KSR, fill in
The loose 1mm of rice, HGF 10mm, oncostatin M (30ng/mL). 
 (2) research of the implantation method of the human liver cell from iPS 
 In order to establish make liver humanization necessary to, efficiently import to mouse liver the side of the liver cell from iPS
Method, develop the human liver cell from iPS via institute on the amnion of the mouse fetus of the 16.5th day gestational period or the 17.5th day
The method (Fig. 6) that existing yolk Nang blood vessels (yolk sac vessel) are imported. 
 Liver cell made in above-mentioned (1) is used to transplant. 
 Using the cultural method, induction is the positive entoderms of Sox17 when cultivating the 4th day, is broken up when cultivating the 7th day
Induce as immature liver cell positive AFP, induction is that the positive ripe livers of ALBUMIN are thin during culture the 16th day
Born of the same parents. 
 In addition, being analyzed by using the RT-PCR of mouse specific primers, confirm in liver cell less than murine genes
Expression, it may thus be appreciated that it 100% is derived from people. 
 Transplanted hepatocytess, liver is taken out in vitro at the 14th day, is immunized with the antibody of human cytokeratin 8/18
Dyeing, results verification human liver cell have survived.In addition, carrying out same analysis after 4 weeks, the colony chi of human liver cell is as a result known
It is very little expansion and human liver cell have been inserted into lobuli hepatis structure. 
 
 
 Embodiment 6 
 The foundation of variation humanization liver mouse 
 The breeding of FAP and PA model mice is carried out in the present embodiment. 
 (1) induction of the variation liver cell from people patient 
 (i) familial amyloid sample becomes the patient (FAP) of DPN：Establish 
 FAP is by transthyretin (transthyretin：TTR) autosome caused by the point mutation of gene
Dominant hereditary disease.For example, in FAP, amino acid, the i.e. valine of the 30th in the amino acid sequence of transthyretin
It is replaced into methionine (Val30Met).Established using collection from the fibroblast of the patient with Val30Met variations
IPS cells. 
 And understand：By with method identical method described before this, can by the iPS cell differentiations induce be liver
Cell. 
 (ii) iPS cells are established by people's propionic acidemia (PA) patient 
 PA is by propionyl CoA carboxylase (propionyl CoA carboxylase：PCCA) exception of gene is caused
Autosomal recessive hereditary diseases.For example, in PA, the arginine of the 52nd in PCCA amino acid sequence is replaced into color ammonia
Sour (Arg52Trp).Using collection iPS cells are established from the fibroblast of the patient with the variation.And understand：It is logical
Cross with method identical method described before this, can by the iPS cell differentiations induce be liver cell. 
 (2) foundation of variation humanization liver mouse (FAP and PA model mice) 
 , can be with humanization liver mouse (by by the iPS from normal person on the foundation for the humanization liver mouse that makes a variation
The hepatocyte transplantation of induction and the mouse made) preparation method similarly, will be by the iPS cells point from FAP and PA patients
Change and induce obtained hepatocyte transplantation into the mouse of the present invention, so as to establish. 
 Industrial applicability 
 According to the present invention, there is provided the ES cells from HHB mouse.Pass through the embryo made to the ES cells using the present invention
Middle transplanting people's cell, it is possible thereby to make target internal organs (such as liver) by the mouse of humanization, the internal organs work(of people can be studied
Energy. 
 Preserving number 
 The expression of microorganism：“HHB10” 
 The number of accepting：NITE BP-02068 
 Former preservation day (accepting day)：On June 17th, 2015 
 International Depository Authority：National Advanced Industrial Science technical college, International Patent Organism collection 
 Total sickle foot 2-5-8 in Mu Geng Jinshi City of 〒 292-0818 Chiba county 
 Sequence number 1~15：Synthetic DNA 
 Sequence table 
 <110>Transgenosis limited company (TRANSGENIC INC.) 
 <120>Internal organs humanization mouse 
 <130> G1385WO 
 <160> 15 
 <170> SIPOSequenceListing 1.0 
 <210> 1 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 1 
 ataacttcgt atagcataca ttatacgaag ttat 34 
 <210> 2 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 2 
 taccgttcgt atagcataca ttatacgaag ttat 34 
 <210> 3 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 3 
 ataacttcgt atagcataca ttatacgaac ggta 34 
 <210> 4 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 4 
 ataacttcgt atagtataca ttatacgaag ttat 34 
 <210> 5 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 5 
 ataacttcgt ataggatact ttatacgaag ttat 34 
 <210> 6 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 6 
 tcaatttctg agaactgtca ttctcggaaa ttga 34 
 <210> 7 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 7 
 cgtgattctg agaactgtca ttctcggaaa ttga 34 
 <210> 8 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 8 
 tcaatttctg agaactgtca ttctcggaat acct 34 
 <210> 9 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 9 
 tcaatttctg agaagtgtct ttctcggaaa ttga 34 
 <210> 10 
 <211> 32 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 10 
 taactttaaa taatgccaat tatttaaagt ta 32 
 <210> 11 
 <211> 32 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 11 
 taactttaaa taattggcat tatttaaagt ta 32 
 <210> 12 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 12 
 ataacttcgt ataatgtatg ctatacgaag ttat 34 
 <210> 13 
 <211> 34 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 13 
 ataacttcgt atagcataca ttatacgaag ttat 34 
 <210> 14 
 <211> 21 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 14 
 ccatggcccc caagaagaaa a 21 
 <210> 15 
 <211> 22 
 <212> DNA 
 <213>Artificial sequence (Artificial Sequence) 
 <220> 
 <221> repeat_region 
 <223>Synthetic DNA 
 <400> 15 
 cgggatccat gagcctgctg tt 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
