
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Produce the microorganism of OSHS and use its method producing OSHS 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to the polypeptide of separation, express the microorganism of this polypeptide and use its method producing OSHS, the feedback suppression of methionine is had resistance and has homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity by the polypeptide of described separation。 
 
 
 Background technology 
 The most of microbe existed in known nature utilizes OSHS or O-acetylhomoserine as intermediate for biosynthesis methionine。Generally speaking; produced OSHS by homoserine O-succinyltransferase (MetA) that the succinyl group of S-(3-carboxy-propionyl)-coenzyme-A is conjugated to homoserine, and produced O-acetylhomoserine by homoserine O-Acetylase (MetX) that the acetyl group of S-acetyl-coenzyme-A is conjugated to homoserine。That is, producing between intermediate in OSHS, metA is one of most important gene in producing its growth of microorganism。Meanwhile, different from MetA, MetX is known as not by feedback suppression and has high enzyme stability。 
 When the cystathionine Gamma synzyme in methionine biosyn route of synthesis is blocked, OSHS is collected, and the bacterial strain therefore producing OSHS needs METHIONINE。Therefore, methionine is joined in culture medium, and the activity of homoserine O-succinyltransferase is added into the methionine in culture medium and suppresses, and finally, it is impossible to obtain the OSHS of high concentration。 
 Therefore, many feedback suppression their research concentrated in first patent from feedback control system releasing (release) metA。But, metA the homoserine O-succinyltransferase encoded has the problem that its wild-type protein itself has low stability and introduces sudden change aggravation unstability to release feedback suppression。Therefore, for the exploitation of the bacterial strain producing OSHS with high productivity, feedback suppression and the firm enzyme stability of removing metA gene are required。 
 
 
 Summary of the invention 
 [technical problem] 
 In order to solve phenomenon and the enzyme instability problem of the feedback suppression of metA described above, the present inventor makes efforts to develop has the homoserine O-succinyltransferase that firm enzyme stability is not suppressed simultaneously by methionine feedback, and in this regard, screen active novel enzyme。As select so screening candidate gene and introduce them into Escherichia (Escherichia) after certain in flask the result of cultivation, inventors have discovered that the production of OSHS, and it is found that the gene of so selection has the resistance of homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity and the feedback suppression to methionine, therefore completes the present invention。 
 [technical scheme] 
 It is an object of the present invention to provide the polypeptide of novel separation, the feedback suppression of methionine is had resistance and has homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity by it。 
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the polynucleotide of the polypeptide encoding this novel separation。 
 The further object of the present invention is to provide the microorganism producing OSHS, and it expresses the polypeptide of this novel separation。 
 The further object of the present invention is to provide the method using micro-organisms OSHS above。 
 [beneficial effect of the invention] 
 Produce OSHS microorganism it include the polypeptide of novel separation, this polypeptide the feedback suppression of methionine is had resistance and have homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity the feedback suppression of methionine can be had resistance and with high yield produce OSHS, and therefore can being efficiently used for producing METHIONINE with high yield, it uses OSHS as precursor。 
 [enforcement description of the presently preferred embodiments] 
 In order to realize target above, on the one hand, the invention provides the feedback suppression to methionine there is resistance and there is the polypeptide of novel separation of homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity。 
 As used herein, term " homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity " refers to the activity that homoserine is converted into OSHS。 
 As used herein, term " feedback suppression " refers to the activity suppression by methionine of homoserine O-succinyltransferase。 
 The polypeptide of the present invention is characterised by that it has the aminoacid sequence of SEQIDNO:1, and this aminoacid sequence has homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity and the feedback suppression of methionine is had resistance。80% is had or more with aforementioned polypeptides, especially 90% or more, more particularly 95% or more, even more particularly 97% or more sequence homology any polypeptide also within the scope of the invention, as long as advising in the present invention, this polypeptide has homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity and the feedback suppression of methionine is had resistance。Percent homology can use BLAST2.0, and it is to measure with reference to algorithm, or the FASTA mensuration of use Pearson [MethodsEnzymol., 183,63 (1990), hereafter]。Based on BLAST algorithm, have been developed for being called BLASTN and BLASTX program [www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov, hereafter]。 
 On the other hand, the invention provides the polynucleotide of the separation of encoding such polypeptides。Specifically, polypeptide is by the polynucleotide sequence coding of SEQIDNO:2 or SEQIDNO:3, due to Codon degeneracy, at least 80% is had with above-mentioned sequence, especially 90% or more, more particularly 95% or more, and even more particularly 97% or more sequence homology those polynucleotide also within the scope of the invention, but be not limited to this。 
 Still on the other hand, the invention provides the carrier including these polynucleotide to operably。 
 As used herein, term " carrier " refers to the DNA construct of the nucleotide sequence of the polynucleotide including coding protein interested, protein wherein interested may be operably coupled to applicable regulating and controlling sequence so that protein interested can be expressed in applicable host。Regulating and controlling sequence may be configured to the promoter of initiation transcription, for the sequence of any operator sequence of regulatory transcription, the sequence of mRNA ribosome binding structural domain that coding is suitable for and regulatory transcription and translation termination。Carrier is after being transformed into applicable host, it is possible to replicates independent of host genome or works, or can be integrated into host genome itself。 
 The carrier used in the present invention is not specifically limited, as long as carrier is reproducible in host, and can use any carrier as known in the art。 
 Still on the other hand, the invention provides the microorganism producing OSHS of express polypeptide, the feedback suppression of methionine is had resistance and has homoserine O-succinyltransferase activity by described polypeptide。 
 As used herein, term " produces the microorganism of OSHS " and can refer to can produce OSHS and store its microorganism with extracellular in cell。 
 The microorganism producing OSHS includes protokaryon and eukaryotic microorganisms bacterial strain, such as, belong to the microbial strains of Escherichia, Erwinia (Erwinia), Serratia (Serratia), Providence Pseudomonas (Providencia), corynebacterium (Corynebacterium) and brevibacterium (Brevibacterium), but be not limited to this。Specifically, microorganism can be belonging to the microorganism of Escherichia, for instance, escherichia coli (Escherichiacoli)。 
 The microbial strains producing 1B, L-threonine or ILE can be used, and use the bacterial strain preparation producing L-threonine to produce the microorganism of OSHS especially。Bacterial strain owing to producing L-threonine is able to synthesis L-threonine and the homoserine bacterial strain as the precursor of OSHS, therefore substantial amounts of methionine precursor, i.e. OSHS, it is possible to use this bacterial strain synthesizes。 
 In the present invention, the expression of polypeptide can be passed through to convert to operably to be had the recombinant vector comprising the gene encoding this polypeptide or realizes by the polynucleotide encoding this polypeptide are inserted chromosome, but method is not limited to this。 
 As used herein, term " conversion " refers to such process: the carrier of the polynucleotide comprising coding target protein is introduced host cell, so that expressed in host cell by the protein of polynucleotide encoding。For the polynucleotide converted, whether it the chromosome of Insertion Into Host Cell and be located therein or be positioned at chromosomal outside being indifferent, as long as it can express in host cell。Polynucleotide can insert in any form, as long as it can be introduced into host cell and express wherein。Such as, polynucleotide can introduce host cell with the form of expression cassette, and described expression cassette is to include the autonomous polynucleotide constructs expressing required all required element。Expression cassette can include may be operably coupled to open reading frame (" ORF ", promoter hereafter), transcription termination signals, ribosome binding structural domain and the translation abort signal of gene routinely。The promoter used in the present invention can not be specifically limited, as long as it can initiate, with altofrequency, the polynucleotide encoding target protein at host cell transcription, and can use any promoter as known in the art。Especially, it is possible to use T7 promoter, trc promoter, tac promoter and cysK promoter (Korean patent No. 10-0966324), but be not limited to this。 
 In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention embodiment, it is possible to lack further or weaken the metB gene of encoding cystathionine γ synzyme in microorganism。 
 In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention embodiment, it is possible to lack or weaken the thrB gene of encoded homoserine kinase in microorganism and the metA gene of encoded homoserine O-succinyltransferase further。 
 In the present invention, the sequence of gene can obtain from data base, such as American National Biotechnology Information center (NCBI)。 
 As used herein, term " disappearance " refers to the some or all of type of the nucleotide sequence region removing target gene in chromosome from the nucleotide sequence corresponding to start codon to the nucleotide sequence corresponding to termination codon, or removes the some or all of type of the nucleotide sequence region in its regulation and control region。 
 As used herein, term " weakens " to refer to be removed or in reduction microbial strains by the intracellular reactive of at least one enzyme of corresponding DNA encoding。For example, it is possible to the nucleotide sequence of the 5 '-UTR by modifying promoter region or gene weakens protein expression, or the activity of protein can be weakened by introducing sudden change in the ORF district of corresponding gene。 
 On the other hand, the invention provides the method producing OSHS, including cultivating mentioned microorganism in the medium to produce OSHS, and obtain OSHS from microorganism or culture medium。 
 Cultivate the prepared above microbial strains producing OSHS to carry out according to applicable culture medium as known in the art or condition of culture。Cultural method can easily be regulated to use according to bacterial strain to be selected by those of ordinary skill in the art。Especially, cultivation can be batch culture, continuously cultivation and feed-batch culture, but is not limited to this。Such as, these different cultural methods disclosed in the list of references (JamesM.Lee, " BiochemicalEngineering ", Prentice-HallInternationalEditions, pp138-176)。 
 Culture medium for cultivating must suitably meet the requirement of concrete bacterial strain。Such as, for the example of the culture medium of different microorganisms disclosed in list of references (AmericanSocietyforBacteriology, " ManualofMethodsforGeneralBacteriology ", WashingtonD.C., USA, 1981)。Culture medium can comprise various carbon source, nitrogenous source and trace element。The example of the carbon source comprised in culture medium can include saccharide, such as glucose, sucrose, lactose, fructose, maltose, starch and cellulose；Fat, such as Oleum Glycines, sunflower oil, Oleum Ricini and Oleum Cocois；Fatty acid, such as palmitic acid, stearic acid and linoleic acid；Alcohols, such as glycerol and ethanol；And organic acid, such as acetic acid。These carbon sources can be used alone or in combination。The example of the nitrogenous source comprised in culture medium can include organic nitrogen source, such as peptone, yeast extract, gravy (meatgravy), Fructus Hordei Germinatus extract, Semen Maydis pulp (CSL) and Semen Glycines powder；With inorganic nitrogen-sourced, such as urea, ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate and ammonium nitrate。These nitrogenous sources can be used alone or in combination。As phosphorus source, culture medium can comprise potassium dihydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate and corresponding containing sodium salt。It addition, culture medium can comprise metal, such as magnesium sulfate and iron sulfate。Furthermore, it is possible to comprise aminoacid, vitamin and applicable precursor etc.。These culture medium or precursor can join in culture medium with batch culture or the form cultivated continuously。 
 It addition, the pH of culture medium can by the training period in a suitable manner add compound regulate, described compound is ammonium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonia, phosphoric acid and sulphuric acid such as。It addition, defoamer such as fatty acid polyethylene glycol ester can be used in the training period to prevent bubble formation。Furthermore it is possible to oxygen or the gas (such as air) containing oxygen are joined in culture medium to maintain the aerobic condition in cultivating。Cultivation temperature can in the scope of 20 DEG C to 45 DEG C, and especially in the scope of 25 DEG C to 40 DEG C。Can continue to cultivate until obtaining the OSHS product of desired amount, and continue 10 hours to 160 hours especially。 
 The OSHS produced by the method for the present invention can be converted into methionine by cystathionine Gamma synzyme or OSHS sulfhydrylase。It addition, by the O-succinyl-L-homoserine that the method for the present invention is produced and CH 3 SH reacts, except METHIONINE, it is also possible to obtain succinic acid as by-product。 
 Still on the other hand, the present invention relates to the feedback suppression to methionine and have resistance and have the purposes of polypeptide of serine O-succinyltransferase activity, wherein this polypeptide has the aminoacid sequence of SEQIDNO:1。The polypeptide of the novel separation of the present invention is confirmed as the feedback suppression to methionine and is had resistance and can produce OSHS with high yield, and therefore this polypeptide can be used for producing OSHS。 
 
 
 Detailed description of the invention 
 Hereinafter, with reference to the following examples, the present invention will be explained in more detail。But these embodiments are for illustrative purposes only, and the present invention is not intended to be limited by these embodiments。 
 
 
 
 Embodiment 1: select the polypeptide with New O-succinyltransferase activity 
 
 Method as the feedback control and its stability firm that release metA gene, have been based on following facts and develop the metX:metX gene (homoserine O-Acetylase) being derived from Chromobacterium violaceum (Chromobacteriumviolaceum) not by the feedback suppression of METHIONINE, although metX gene has similar structure to metA gene。 
 Thus, homoserine O-Acetylase for development of new, the present inventor has carried out homology analysis already in connection with the aminoacid sequence of the metX developed being derived from Chromobacterium violaceum, and have finally chosen the polypeptide of the aminoacid sequence with SEQIDNO:1, relieve the feedback suppression of methionine。The present inventor has determined the polypeptide of selection fresh and has had the new activity previously never reported, although it is derived from the metX of SideroxydanslithotrophicusES-1。 
 
 
 
 Embodiment 2: plasmid construction 
 
 2-1 synthesis is derived from the metX gene of Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002 
 It is derived from the metX gene (SEQIDNO:3) of Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002 to synthesize via codon optimisation process based on the metX gene order (SEQIDNO:2) (reference sequences: ZP_03696709.1) of ncbi database so that this gene can at expression in escherichia coli。 
 2-2. construction expression is derived from the plasmid of the metX gene of Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002 
 MetX gene uses the primer nucleotide sequence amplification based on the synthesis of SEQIDNO:3 of SEQIDNO:4 and 5 by PCR。The primer of SEQIDNO:5 has HindIII restriction site。 
 SEQIDNO:4)5’-ATCATGTCCACTACAGAATCCTCG-3’ 
 SEQIDNO:5)5’-CCCAAGCTTttatgccgccacttctttggc-3’ 
 PCR carry out 30 by degeneration 30s at 95 DEG C, anneal 30s and extend the circulation that forms of 1min at 72 DEG C at 55 DEG C。PCR primer experiences electrophoresis in 1.0% agarose gel, and 1.14kb band is eluted, purification, and with HindIII process。PCL1920 carrier EcoRV and the HindIII comprising cysK promoter is processed, and clones obtained restricted fragment。The expression obtained as the result of clone is derived from the plasmid called after " pCL-PcysK-metX (pfe) " of metX gene of Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans。 
 
 
 
 Embodiment 3: the structure of experimental strain 
 
 The disappearance of 3-1.metB gene 
 Make the metB gene delection of encoding cystathionine γ synzyme in wild-type e. coli (K12) W3110 bacterial strain。In order to lack metB gene, carry out FRT-mono-step-PCR deletion method (PNAS (2000) vol97:P6640-6645)。In order to lack metB gene, used the primer of SEQIDNO:6 and 7 by PCR, and pKD3 carrier (PNAS (2000) vol97:P6640-6645) builds disappearance box as template。 
 SEQIDNO:6) 
 5’-TTACTCTGGTGCCTGACATTTCACCGACAAAGCCCAGGGAACTTCATCACGTGTAGGCTGGAGCTGCTTC-3' 
 SEQIDNO:7) 
 5’-CGCTGCGCCAGCTCCATACGCGGCACCAGCGTTCGCAACCCACGTAGCAGCATATGAATATCCTCCTTAG-3’ 
 PCR carry out 30 by degeneration 30s at 95 DEG C, anneal 30s and extend the circulation that forms of 1min at 72 DEG C at 55 DEG C。PCR primer experiences electrophoresis in 1.0% agarose gel, and 1.1kb band is eluted and purification。The DNA fragmentation electroporation of recovery is entered escherichia coli (K12) W3110 bacterial strain, and it is inverted pKD46 carrier (PNAS (2000) vol97P6640-6645)。For electroporation, cultivate converting the W3110 bacterial strain having pKD46 at 30 DEG C in the LB culture medium of the ampicillin containing 200 μ g/L and 5mML-arabinose, until OD 600 Reach 0.5, and wash 3 times to use with 10% glycerol。Electroporation carries out under 2500V。The bacterial strain plating reclaimed, on the LB plating medium comprising 30 μ g/L chloromycetin, is cultivated 1 to 2 days at 37 DEG C, and selects chloromycetin is shown the bacterial strain of resistance。Use the primer experience PCR of SEQIDNO:8 and 9 under the bacterial strain the same terms described above selected, and the disappearance of metB gene is by observing that the 1.5kb that there is gene in 1.0% agarose gel band confirms。 
 SEQIDNO:8)5’-TATTCGCCGCTCCATTCAGC-3’ 
 SEQIDNO:9)5’-TACCCCTTGTTTGCAGCCCG-3’ 
 The bacterial strain so confirmed converts to be had pCP20 carrier (PNAS (2000) vol97P6640-6645) and cultivates in the LB culture medium of the ampicillin containing 100 μ g/L。Have the metB gene delection reducing size final bacterial strain its be identified through carrying out PCR structure at identical conditions in 1.0% agarose gel, and confirm chloramphenicol maker thing and remove from bacterial strain。The Strain Designation so built needing methionine is " CC03-0131 "。 
 The disappearance of 3-2.thrB gene 
 The amount synthesizing OSHS from homoserine is increased by making the thrB gene delection of encoded homoserine kinase attempt。Specifically, because the activity that utilizes of homoserine is very high, making thrB gene delection is necessary to use the bacterial strain producing threonine。In the CC03-0131 bacterial strain being constructed above, the disappearance of thrB gene is undertaken by FRT-mono-step-PCR deletion method。ThrB lacks box and uses the primer of SEQIDNO:10 and 11 and pKD3 carrier to build as template by PCR。 
 SEQIDNO:10) 
 5’-CATGGTTAAAGTTTATGCCCCGGCTTCCAGTGCCAATATGAGCGTCGGGTGTGTAGGCTGGAGCTGCTTC-3’ 
 SEQIDNO:11) 
 5’-GGAGATACCGCTCGCTACCGCGCCGATTTCCGCGACCGCCTGCCGCGCCTCATATGAATATCCTCCTTAG-3’ 
 PCR carry out 30 by degeneration 30s at 95 DEG C, anneal 30s and extend the circulation that forms of 1min at 72 DEG C at 55 DEG C。PCR primer experiences electrophoresis in 1.0% agarose gel, and 1.1kb band is eluted and purification。The DNA fragmentation electroporation of recovery is entered CC03-0131 bacterial strain, and it has been converted pKD46 carrier。For electroporation, cultivate converting the CC03-0131 bacterial strain having pKD46 at 30 DEG C in the LB culture medium of the ampicillin and 5mML-arabinose that comprise 200 μ g/L, until OD 600 Reach 0.5, and wash 3 times to use with 10% glycerol。Electroporation carries out under 2500V。The bacterial strain plating reclaimed, on the LB plating medium comprising 30 μ g/L chloromycetin, is cultivated 1 to 2 days at 37 DEG C, and selects chloromycetin is shown the bacterial strain of resistance。 
 Use the primer experience PCR of SEQIDNO:12 and 13 under the bacterial strain the same terms described above selected, and the disappearance of thrB gene is by observing that the 1.5kb that there is gene in 1.0% agarose gel band confirms。 
 SEQIDNO:12)5’-ACTCGACGATCTCTTTGCC-3’ 
 SEQIDNO:13)5’-ACGCCGAGAGGATCTTCGCAG-3’ 
 The bacterial strain so confirmed converts to be had pCP20 carrier and cultivates in the LB culture medium of the ampicillin containing 100 μ g/L。Have the thrB gene delection reducing size final bacterial strain its be identified through carrying out PCR structure at identical conditions in 1.0% agarose gel, and confirm chloramphenicol maker thing and remove from bacterial strain。The Strain Designation so built is " CC03-0131-2 "。 
 The disappearance of 3-3.metA gene 
 In order to characterize the activity that substrate specificity is derived from the metX gene of Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002 in coli strain, make the original metA gene delection on chromosome based on CC03-0131-2 bacterial strain, CC03-0131-2 bacterial strain is escherichia coli (K12) the W3110 bacterial strain of metB and thrB gene delection。MetA gene delection is made by FRT-mono-step-PCR deletion method。The primer of SEQIDNO:14 and 15 and pKD3 carrier is used to build metA as template and lack box by PCR。 
 SEQIDNO:14) 
 5’-TCAGCTGTTGCGCATCGATTCCCGTGAATCGCGCAACACGCCCGCAGAGCGTGTAGGCTGGAGCTGCTTC-3’ 
 SEQIDNO:15) 
 5’-CCGTCACAAAGGCAATGCGCTTATCTTTACTGGCAAACAGATATGCATCCCATATGAATATCCTCCTTAG-3’ 
 PCR carry out 30 by degeneration 30s at 95 DEG C, anneal 30s and extend the circulation that forms of 1min at 72 DEG C at 55 DEG C。PCR primer experiences electrophoresis in 1.0% agarose gel, and 1.1kb band is eluted and purification。The DNA fragmentation electroporation of recovery is entered CC03-0131-2 bacterial strain, and it is inverted pKD46 carrier。For electroporation, cultivate converting the CC03-0131-2 bacterial strain having pKD46 at 30 DEG C in the LB culture medium of the ampicillin and 5mM arabinose that comprise 200 μ g/L, until OD 600 Reach 0.5, and wash 3 times to use with 10% glycerol。Electroporation carries out under 2500V。The bacterial strain plating reclaimed, on the LB plating medium comprising 30 μ g/L chloromycetin, is cultivated 1 to 2 days at 37 DEG C, and selects chloromycetin is shown the bacterial strain of resistance。 
 The bacterial strain selected uses the primer experience PCR of SEQIDNO:16 and 17 with same as described above when, and the disappearance of metA gene is by observing that the 1.5kb that there is gene in 1.0% agarose gel band confirms。 
 SEQIDNO:16)5’-CTCATTAACGTTGGTTGTCA-3’ 
 SEQIDNO:17)5’-TATCTTGCTGCTGCTGAATG-3’ 
 The bacterial strain so confirmed converts to be had pCP20 carrier and cultivates in the LB culture medium of the ampicillin containing 100 μ g/L。Have the metA gene delection reducing size final bacterial strain its be identified through carrying out PCR structure at identical conditions in 1.0% agarose gel, and confirm chloramphenicol maker thing and remove from bacterial strain。The Strain Designation so built is " CC03-0132 "。 
 3-4. builds and introduces the bacterial strain having the plasmid expressing the metX gene being derived from Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans 
 Activity for metX gene that is that characterize substrate specificity and that be derived from Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002, making CC03-0132 bacterial strain introduce and have the plasmid pCL-PcysK-metX (pfe) built in embodiment 2, CC03-0132 bacterial strain is escherichia coli (K12) the W3110 bacterial strain of metB, thrB and metA gene delection。 
 Introducing has the CC03-0132 Strain Designation of pCL-PcysK-metX (pfe) to be " CC03-0135 " and be preserved in the International Depository Authority Korean Culture Center (KCCM) approved by budapest treaty on June 10th, 2013 with accession number KCCM11423P, described Korean Culture Center is positioned at the 361-221 of South Korea Seoul, Hongje-1-dong, Seodaemun-gu, is the subsidiary of culture collection association of Korea S (KoreanFederationofCultureCollection) (KFCC)。 
 Building bacterial strain by introducing plasmid pCL-PcysK-metA, it builds except with the wild type metA in CC03-0132 bacterial strain as a control group in the way of in the same manner as in Example 2。The Strain Designation so built is " CC03-0132/pCL-PcysK-metA "。 
 Additionally, product L-threonine-producing strain CJM002 is used to build bacterial strain in the way of identical with embodiment 3-1 and 3-3, and the Strain Designation so built is " CJM-BTA ", described product L-threonine-producing strain CJM002 uses NTG to release methionine needs (accession number: KCCM-10568) based on producing L-threonine bacterial strain TF4076 (accession number: KFCC-10718) via artificial mutation, and described product L-threonine bacterial strain TF4076 is the bacterial strain needing methionine disclosed in Korean patent No. 10-0905381。 
 Based on CJM-BTA bacterial strain, plasmid pCL-PcysK-metX (pfe) as described above and pCL-PcysK-metA are introduced, and the bacterial strain so built is respectively designated as " CJM-BTA/pCL-PcysK-metX (pfe) " and " CJM-BTA/pCL-PcysK-metA "。 
 
 
 
 Embodiment 4: use bacterial strain to produce OSHS 
 
 4-1. flask culture experiment 
 The activity of the metX gene in order to characterize substrate specificity and be derived from Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002 is introduced into the bacterial strain built in embodiment 3, carries out conical flask cultivation。Compositions in this flask shows in table 1 below。 
 [table 1] 
 
 
 
 CC03-0132 bacterial strain and CJM-BTA inoculation are entered in LB plating medium as a control group。CC03-0135 bacterial strain (conversion has metX expression vector), CC03-0132/pCL-PcysK-metA bacterial strain (conversion has the metA expression vector using identical carrier to prepare) and two kinds of other bacterial strains CJM-BTA/pCL-PcysK-metX (pfe) and CJM-BTA/pCL-PcysK-metA (convert respectively and have the metX expression vector based on CJM-BTA bacterial strain or metA expression vector) are inoculated in the LB plating medium containing spectinomycin, overnight incubation at 33 DEG C。Then, single colony inoculation is entered and cultivates 2 hours at LB33 DEG C of the 2mL of spectinomycin, again inoculate containing 25mL flask culture medium 250mL conical flask in the absorbance under OD600 be 0.07, cultivate 48 hours with the speed of 200rpm at 33 DEG C, and via the amount that HPLC com-parison and analysis OSHS produces。Result shows in table 2 below。 
 [table 2] 
 
 
 
 Result, confirm to be derived from the metX gene of Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002, identical with the situation of colibacillary metA gene, use succinyl-coenzyme A to create OSHS as substrate but do not produce O-acetylhomoserine。When the metX gene being derived from Pseudogulbenkianiaferrooxidans2002 is introduced into, even with the wild type self not introducing any modification, the feedback suppression of the methionine joining culture medium does not occur。 
 It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention can embody without departing from its spirit or basic feature with other concrete form。The embodiment described all is considered only as illustrative and not restrictive in all respects。Therefore, the scope of the invention book rather than indicated by above description。All of change in the meaning of equal value and scope of claims is included within the scope of the invention。 
 International recognition is for the microbial preservation budapest treaty of proprietary program 
 International form 
 Original preservation receives to be proved 
 The International Depository Authority determined by this page of bottom sends according to the 7.1st article 
 Extremely: CJ Corp. 
 CJ first refines sugar center 
 330, DONGHO-RO, JUNG-GU, Soul, 
 100-400, the big Korea S people 
 
 
 
 Prove that above-mentioned translation and textual content are not run counter to mutually 
 On October 14th, 2014 
 Patent agent SonMin prints 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PCT/RO/134 table 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
