
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A kind of radiation hardness aspergillosis and the application in absorption Ce 137 biological treatment thereof 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to a kind of microorganism fungus kind and be applied to biological adsorption radionuclide technical field, concrete, this
Bright relate to a kind of radiation hardness aspergillosis and radionuclide adsorb in application technical field. 
 
 
 Background technology 
 Urbanization, industrialization and population growth cause global energy crisis, sustainable development demand that the mankind are more come
More depend on new forms of energy.Nuclear energy with its extremely low CO2 emission and huge development potentiality increasingly by numerous countries
Attention.While nuclear energy high speed development, also cause huge pressure to global environment, make radioactive pollution become the most great
One of environmental problem, particularly with Chernobyl and Fukushima, Japan nuclear power station, the nuclear accident as representative is big to Environment release
The radioactive contaminant of amount, causes locality and the serious radioactive pollution of surrounding enviroment, causes ecological environment and human health
The hugest potential threat. 
 As the important component part of ecosystem, microbial population is big, distribution is wide, specific surface area is big, breeding is fast,
Adaptable to environmental change, shows the toleration of height to radioactive radiation.Utilize biological agent remove, repair and
Administer radioactive pollution and have that selectivity is strong, the process time is short, low cost, do not cause secondary pollution and do not destroy ecological environment etc.
Advantage, has become one of hot research technology of radioactive pollution improvement the most. 
 Ce 137 (Cs 137 ) it is one of important fission product, also it is nuclear bomb, nuclear weapon test and nuclear reactor kernel split
One of side-product become, its half-life is longer, has higher animal migration, easily causes radiation hazradial bundle by biological chain transfer, it
Gamma ray can be discharged, receive much concern in environment activity pollution amelioration.The half-life of Ce 137, can be at ring relatively up to 30 years
Border or ecosystem retain, accumulate and migrate, causes serious environmental pollution and ecological hazard.If through taking food or exhaling
Inhale, taken in Ce 137, or be deposited in ground Ce 137 and irradiated, all health can be had more lasting impact. 
 In terms of administering radioactive pollution, traditional method is engineering method, chemical method.Engineering method is physically to collect
With the method for isolation radioactive substance, chemical method is to use special chemicals fix and remove radioactive pollution.Above-mentioned side
Although the application that method has been succeeded, such as Hiroshima and Liang Ge city, Nagasaki, the Marshall Islands republican bikini ring of Japan
The horse traction woods of reef core test site and Australia adds reparation and the reconstruction of nuclear test site, but its cost is the highest, it is difficult to for big face
The reparation of long-pending radiation area, therefore, engineering is the biggest with the method limitation of chemistry.Biological restoration be utilize special biological concentration and
The method of immobilization of radioactive pollutant, mainly microorganism and plant, particularly microbial function utilize of greatest concern, because it becomes
This is low, is suitable for large area repair, thus biological restoration radioactive pollution becomes the focus of current research. 
 Research shows: microorganism is controlled not only by dissolving and precipitation, biological adsorption and the effect such as absorption, oxidoreduction
Radionuclide contamination in reason environment, and by changing plant rhizosphere microenvironment, thus plant heavy metal can be improved
Ion and the absorption of radionuclide, volatilize or fixing efficiency.Relevant research also achieves actively progress, as Jana    Sitte   [1]  Prove that the radioactive nucleus uranium (U) mobility in soil is by microorganism in environment and the shadow of envirment factor Deng research
Ring, Eva-Maria Burkhardt   [2] Research show the hypertrophy of Fe (III) reducing bacteria be conducive to heavy metal including U from
Son is migrated to subsoil water by soil. C.Hwang With D.Moreels   [3] Deng research show, bacteria flora can promote soluble state U
(VI) to stable U(IV) convert, Beyenal   [4] U can be fixed Deng research display sulfate reducting bacteria, Coppleston e [5] Deng
Separate acquisition can accumulate in a large number 137 Cs、 238+239+240 The microbial strains of the radionuclides such as Pu, Hu [6] Deng research show many
Microorganism can adsorb U, as Pseudomonas aeruginosa CSU 、 Aspergillus fumigatus With Saccharomyces cerevisiae 。 Entry   [7] Use AM VA Mycorrhizal Fungi can promote row plant pair Deng research discovery 137 Cs、 90 Sr
Accumulation, Oneidensis Shewanella MR-1, can be effectively by solubility U 6+ 、Cr 6+ And Tc 7+ It is reduced to insoluble U 5+ 、Cr 3+ 
And Tc 4+ 。 
 Microorganism remediation radioactive pollution is utilized to have successful example, Groudev   [8] Soil is utilized in calendar year 2001
Write microorganism to Bulgaria south containing radioelement uranium, radium and the same heavy metal copper of thorium, cadmium and lead-contaminated soil, carry out former
Position is repaired, through the time of 8 months, pollutant descend horizontally into human-body safety scope. 
 Microorganism remediation radioactive pollution environment is utilized to must account for following two aspect: first, it is necessary to be the most resistance to
The microorganism of radiation;Second, public safety can not be threatened during microorganism remediation environment, secondary pollution can not be produced.Due to
Most antibacterial is more sensitive to specific radioactivity, and therefore the ability of they reparation radioactive pollution environment can be by bigger limit
System.Accordingly, it would be desirable to go to separate the microorganism with radioresistance from natural environment, or transformed by technique for gene engineering
Some microorganisms are allowed to obtain radioresistance.There is no relevant radiation hardness aspergillosis and application in radionuclide adsorbs thereof at present
Report. 
 
 
 Summary of the invention 
 For there is no both at home and abroad at present about radiation hardness aspergillosis and in radionuclide adsorbs the relevant report of application,
Particularly there is no radiation hardness aspergillosis application relevant report in caesium is carried out a biological disposal upon.The object of the invention is intended to provide a kind of resistance to spoke
Penetrate aspergillosis and at absorption Cs 137 Application in biological treatment, the particularly present invention provide one to utilize radiation hardness aspergillosis
( Aspergillus sp. ) the F77 CGMCC No. 8382 application in absorption caesium biological treatment. 
 The main technical schemes that the present invention uses: 
 The present invention samples from the Bayangolmongol Autonomous Prefecture local pollution control environment of Xinjiang, with different cultivation temperature, pH
Value, culture medium are enrichment condition, filter out a collection of well-grown microbial strains, the most preferably go out a numbered F77's of strain
Bacterial strain, determines through the physio-biochemical characteristics of microorganism fungus kind, colonial morphology, the molecular water equality campaign checking of strain,
This strain be a kind of radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77, common through China Committee for Culture Collection of Microorganisms
Microorganism center (CGMCC) preservation, it is thus achieved that preserving number is CGMCC No. 8382, utilizes this strain to carry out a biological disposal upon at radiocesium
Middle application, by test prove this strain radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 is for Ni + , Cr 2+, 、Zn 2+ 、Co 2+ 、 Pb 2+ 、Hg 2+ Six kinds of ions are respectively provided with resistance characteristics, wherein to Pb 2+ 、Zn  2+   , Ni + Tolerable concentration
Greatly, respectively up to 1000 mg/L and 500 mg/L, 500 mg/L；To Co 2+ , Cr 2+ , Hg 2+ Toleration take second place, be all up
200 mg/L；Particularly in radionuclide caesium adsorbs, application obtains notable significantly technique effect, thus demonstrates this bacterium
Kind in absorption caesium biological treatment, there is good application prospect. 
 The present invention specifically provide one utilize aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382.The present invention
The aspergillosis that used ( Aspergillus sp. ) by Microorgan Application Inst., Xinjiang Agricultural Academy from the stupefied illiteracy of Xinjiang Guo Ba Yin
In the radioactive pollution soil of ancient somewhere, autonomous prefecture area, sampling separates, with different cultivation temperature, pH value, culture medium for enrichment bar
Part, filters out a collection of well-grown microbial strains, and the bacterial strain the most preferably going out a numbered F77 of strain was protected before the applying date
It is hidden in budapest treaty microorganism International Depository Authority: China Committee for Culture Collection of Microorganisms's common micro-organisms center
(CGMCC) preservation, address: Yard 1, BeiChen xi Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing City 3, Institute of Microorganism, Academia Sinica, postcode:
100101, preservation date is on October 22nd, 2013, and preserving number is CGMCC No.8382；This strain culturing temperature 28-30 DEG C,
The suitableeest cultivation temperature about 28 DEG C；This growth in PDA media surface be Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g, glucose 20g, agar 15g,
Distilled water IL, pH are natural, through 28 DEG C, 48h cultivation, are observed by the microscopy of inserted sheet and hydraulic pressure sheet by strain F77, at the beginning of this bacterial strain
Raw white mycelium, in loose fine hair shape, separates, and bacterium colony surface Rice dumpling leaf is green.Sporophore and spore are homochromy, spore subcircular, become
Go here and there raw around the sporophore top expanded, radially distribute, without mitogenetic stigma.According to above morphological characteristic, tentatively reflect
This bacterial strain fixed is a kind of deuteromycetes Moniliales Moniliaceae list stalk aspergillus.Reflect with reference to " Fungal identification handbook "
Fixed, in conjunction with F77 bacterial strain carries out morphology, Physiology and biochemistry is identified, named radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ). 
 This bacterial strain aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 is in PDA culture medium, Wort culture medium well-grown, through Biolog
The test of FF identification plate proves that F77 can utilize Tween 80, N-acetyl group--D-Glucose amine, ribitol, L-arabinose, D-
Arabitol, arbutin, D-cellobiose, D-xylose, malic acid, dextrin, erythritol, maltonic acid, a-D-glucose,
PEARLITOL 25C ,-methyl-D-glucoside, 6-O-D-Glucopyranose. acyl, D-fructofuranose, D-glucuronic acid, glycerol, liver
Sugar, maltotriose, quinic acid, Pidolidone, adenosine-5 monophosphate, a-D-glucose-1-this salt of phosphorus, D-ribose, salicin,
D-glucitol, L-sorbose, stachyose, K-trehalose, turanose, xylitol, y-aminobutyric acid, bromosuccinic acid, anti-butylene
Diacid ,-hydroxybutyric acid, y-hydroxybutyric acid, P-HPAA, a-ketoglutaric acid, D-malic acid, D-Glucose diacid, the last of the ten Heavenly stems two
Acid, succinic acid, succinic acid methyl ester, L-alanine amide, L-alanine, L-alanyl glycine, altheine, L-days
Winter propylhomoserin, glycyl-L-glutamic acid, L-phenyl handle propylhomoserin, proline, pyroglutamic acid, Serine, L-revives amino acid, 2-amino
Ethanol, rotten glycosides, adenosine. 
 The present invention is expanded by the PCR of the extraction of STb gene, ITS1 gene and order-checking, according to sequencing result, searches with Blast
Rope software recalls the ITS1 gene order of the higher related strain of similarity from the data bases such as GenBank, EMBL, uses
CLUSTAL X carries out Multiple Sequence Alignment, and use Saitou and Nei adjacent method ( Neighbor Joining ) use MEGA
5.0 softwares carry out structure and the tetraploid rice of systematic evolution tree.After measured, radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77
The ITS1 gene order of CGMCC No. 8382 is 600bp. 
 By the above results and the analysis of ITS1 DNA homolog, Phylogenetic Analysis result, the bacterial strain radiation hardness of purification is bent
Mould ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 carries out structure and the diversity analysis of systematic evolution tree, strain is compiled
Number be F77 with Aspergillus flavus strain PT18 homology is the highest, but both there is also obvious difference, display
The strain of different attribute, the present invention by bacterium numbering be F77 identification of strains be aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ). 
 Meanwhile, the present invention specifically provide one utilize radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No.
8382 carry out application technology scheme in radiocesium biological treatment: the PDA at the stable cesium ion containing 10mg/L cultivates respectively
Base adds 1ml(6772.95 Bake) radiocesium mother solution, and 2ml(13545.9 Bake) radiocesium mother solution, inoculate F77,
Cultivate to the suitableeest growth time, collect sample.Pass through ICP-MS and liquid flashing determining bacterial strain respectively in growth course to stable
Property caesium and the absorption of radiocesium.Shown by test, the absorption in the presence of strain F77 is for radiocesium, to stable caesium
Rate is decreased obviously, and only 19.3%, and in the presence of one times of radiocesium and twice radiocesium, stability caesium is adsorbed rate variance
Different not quite, the adsorption rate difference for radiocesium is also little, all reaches more than 40%. 
 Bacterial strain aspergillosis used by the present invention ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 is to wherein to Pb 2+ 、Zn 2+ , Ni + Tolerable concentration maximum, respectively up to 1000 mg/L and 500 mg/L, 500 mg/L；To Co 2+  Cr 2+ , Hg 2+ Tolerance
Property is taken second place, and is all up 200 mg/L；In radionuclide caesium adsorbs, application obtains notable significantly technique effect, thus proves
This strain has good application prospect in absorption caesium biological treatment. 
 The present invention so provide radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) separation of F77 CGMCC No. 8382 and training
Breeding method. 
 1. isolation medium uses: PDA culture medium. 
 2. separate and screening conditions: take gradient dilution method, weigh 10g pedotheque in 90mL physiological saline solution,
Carry out gradient dilution after 30 ° of C activation 30min, choose 10 -2 、10 -3 、10 -4 Diluent is respectively coated in isolation medium starch PDA
Culture medium flat plate, each process 3 repetition, put 30 ° of C and cultivate.After growing bacterium colony, picking shape, size, color etc. are different
Streak inoculation is in corresponding flat board respectively, until falling without miscellaneous bacteria for bacterium colony. 
 Through cultivate screening determine radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 PDA train
Supporting bacterial strain mycelia on base to loosen fine hair shape, separate, bacterium colony surface Rice dumpling leaf is green.Tween 80, N-acetyl group--D-Portugal can be utilized
Grapes glucosamine, ribitol, L-arabinose, D-arabitol, arbutin, D-cellobiose, D-xylose, malic acid, dextrin, red algae
Sugar alcohol, maltonic acid, a-D-glucose, PEARLITOL 25C ,-methyl-D-glucoside, 6-O-D-Glucopyranose. acyl, D-furan
Mutter fructose, D-glucuronic acid, glycerol, glycogen, maltotriose, quinic acid, Pidolidone, adenosine-5 ' monophosphate, a-D-Portugal
Grape sugar-1-this salt of phosphorus, D-ribose, salicin D-glucitol, L-sorbose, stachyose, K-trehalose, turanose, xylitol,
Y-aminobutyric acid, bromosuccinic acid, fumaric acid ,-hydroxybutyric acid, y-hydroxybutyric acid, P-HPAA a-ketoglutaric acid,
D-malic acid, D-Glucose diacid, decanedioic acid, succinic acid, succinic acid methyl ester, L-alanine amide, L-alanine, L-propylamine
Acylamino-acetic acid, altheine, L-Aspartic acid, glycyl-L-glutamic acid, L-phenyl handle propylhomoserin proline, burnt paddy ammonia
Acid, Serine, L-revives amino acid, 2-ethylaminoethanol, rotten glycosides, adenosine. 
 By implementing the concrete technical scheme of the present invention, it is achieved present invention reaches following beneficial effect: 
 The present invention provide radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 and at cesium ion
Application in absorption, Ni + , Cr 2+ , Zn 2+ 、Co 2+ 、 Pb 2+ 、Hg 2+ Six kinds of ions are respectively provided with resistance characteristics, wherein to Pb 2+ 、Zn  2   + , Ni + Tolerable concentration maximum, respectively up to 1000 mg/L and 500 mg/L, 500 mg/L；To Co 2+ , Cr 2+ , Hg 2+ Resistance to
Taken second place by property, be all up 200 mg/L and can be utilized the growth absorption cesium ion of thalline, and radiocesium by this law, it is also possible to
Directly using dry mycelium absorption, maximum adsorption ability is up to 44.5mg/g dry mycelium. 
 
 
 Accompanying drawing explanation 
 Fig. 1 show aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) the colonial morphology hydraulic pressure sheet figure of F77 CGMCC No. 8382. 
 Fig. 2 show aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 Phylogenetic dendrogram. 
 Fig. 3 aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) the F77 CGMCC No. 8382 toleration figure to acidity. 
 The impact on caesium absorption behavior of Fig. 4 aspergillosis (Aspergillus sp.) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorption time
Figure. 
 Fig. 5 aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) impact on adsorption effect of the F77 CGMCC No. 8382 caesium initial concentration
Figure. 
 Fig. 6 aspergillosis (Aspergillus sp.) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorption isotherm matched curve figure. 
 Fig. 7 potassium to aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 grow and adsorb caesium affect figure. 
 Fig. 8 aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382pH affects figure to adsorption effect. 
 Fig. 9 difference biomass to aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorbs the shadow of cesium ion
Ring figure. 
 Figure 10 adsorption time for aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorbs cesium ion
Impact figure. 
 Figure 11 temperature to aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) cesium ion adsorbs by F77 CGMCC No. 8382 thalline
Impact figure. 
 Figure 12 aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 is to stable caesium and the adsorption rate of radiocesium
Figure. 
 
 
 Detailed description of the invention 
 Being further elucidated with the present invention below in conjunction with specific embodiment, certainly, these embodiments are merely to illustrate the present invention, and
It is not used in restriction the scope of protection of present invention. 
 Main raw and auxiliary material, reagent and the instrument and equipment related in the present invention: 
 Culture medium is selected: PDA media surface is Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g, glucose 20g, agar 15g, distilled water IL, and pH is certainly
So. 
 Key instrument and reagent: MSSPX-250 type biochemical cultivation case, MLS-3020 high-pressure steam sterilizing pan, SW-CJ-1F
The single two-sided clean work station of Type B, E360K centrifuge, constant-temperature table HWY-100.PCR instrument Eppendorf No:5345, electricity
Swimming instrument Bio-Rad Mode 200/2.0, gel imaging instrument United-Bio, GK-330C plus, PCR premixed liquid (TaKaRa
Biotechnology), remaining reagent is analytical pure.Sonicator is U.S. Sonics, VC 130.Xseries II type
Inductivity coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), THERMO company of the U.S.；Seven Easy Plus S20P type precision pH meter, on
Sea prunus mume (sieb.) sieb.et zucc. Teller-torr benefit Instrument Ltd.；DHG-924OA type electric heating constant-temperature blowing drying box, the permanent scientific instrument in Shanghai one have
Limit company；THZ-82 gas bath constant temperature oscillation case, Community of Jin Tan County Cheng Hui instrument plant；GMSX-280 pressure steam sterilizer, Beijing is forever
Bright Medical Instruments company limited.Reagent is analytical pure, and water is ultra-pure water, 18.2 M Ω cm. 
 All reagent and the instrument selected in the present invention are all to it is well known that selection, but are not intended to the reality of the present invention
Executing, other reagent more well known in the art and equipment are applied both to the enforcement of implementation below of the present invention. 
 
 
 Embodiment one: aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) separation of F77CGMCC No. 8382, cultivation 
 1. separate: radiation hardness aspergillosis used in the present invention ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 is by Xinjiang Agricultural Sciences institute
Microbe application institute samples separation from the radioactive pollution soil of somewhere, Bayangolmongol Autonomous Prefecture area, Xinjiang, utilizes
Traditional plating method isolates the microorganism in soil layer, and plate streak purification bacterial strain, with different cultivation temperature, pH
Value, culture medium are enrichment condition, filter out a collection of well-grown microbial strains, the most preferably go out a numbered F77's of strain
Bacterial strain. 
 Separating step: according to gradient dilution method, weighs 10g pedotheque in 90mL physiological saline solution, and 30 ° of C are in perseverance
Carry out gradient dilution after temperature vibration case activation 30min, choose 10 -2 、10 -3 、10 -4 Diluent is respectively coated putting down in PDA culture medium
Plate, each process 3 repetition, put 30 ° of C and cultivate.The bacterium colony that picking shape, size, color etc. are different after growing bacterium colony is respectively
Streak inoculation is in new isolation medium PDA culture medium, until falling without miscellaneous bacteria.A bacterial strain part after purification is used lyophilizing peace
The mode preservations such as small jar pipe, glycerol pipe and liquid nitrogen, a part is stored in 4 ° of C and is directly used in follow-up study. 
 2. condition of culture: by the inoculation of purification to solid potato culture medium inclined-plane, cultivate 6 days in 30 DEG C, put
Enter in 4 DEG C of refrigerators and save backup. 
 Concrete: this strain culturing temperature 28-30 DEG C, the suitableeest cultivation temperature about 30 DEG C；This growth is cultivated in PDA
Primary surface is Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g, glucose 20g, agar 15g, distilled water IL, and pH is natural, through 30 DEG C, 48h cultivation. 
 Radiation hardness aspergillosis used in the present invention ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 bacterial strain has been preserved in budapest treaty
Microorganism International Depository Authority: China Committee for Culture Collection of Microorganisms's common micro-organisms center (CGMCC) preservation, ground
Location: Yard 1, BeiChen xi Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing City 3, Institute of Microorganism, Academia Sinica, postcode: 100101, preservation date is
On October 22nd, 2013, culture presevation number is CGMCC No.8382, this strain culturing temperature 28-30 DEG C, the suitableeest cultivation temperature 30
About DEG C；This growth in PDA media surface be Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g, glucose 20g, agar 15g, distilled water IL, pH from
So, through 30 DEG C, 48h cultivation.Strain F77 is observed by the microscopy of inserted sheet and hydraulic pressure sheet, this bacterial strain primary hyphae white, loose floss
Hairy.Sorus Rice dumpling leaf is green, spore subcircular, and bunchiness raw in the sporophore top surrounding expanded, and becomes radial distribution, nothing
Mitogenetic stigma.See accompanying drawing 1.According to above morphological characteristic, this bacterial strain of Preliminary Identification is deuteromycetes Moniliales Moniliaceae
Single kind obstructing aspergillus.Identifying with reference to " Fungal identification handbook ", in conjunction with F77 bacterial strain carries out morphology, physiology is raw
Change and identify, named aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ). 
 This bacterial strain aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 is in PDA culture medium, Wort culture medium well-grown, through Biolog
The test of FF identification plate proves that F77 can utilize Tween 80, N-acetyl group--D-Glucose amine, ribitol, L-arabinose, D-
Arabitol, arbutin, D-cellobiose, D-xylose, malic acid, dextrin, erythritol, maltonic acid, a-D-glucose,
PEARLITOL 25C ,-methyl-D-glucoside, 6-O-D-Glucopyranose. acyl, D-fructofuranose, D-glucuronic acid, glycerol, liver
Sugar, maltotriose, quinic acid, Pidolidone, adenosine-5 monophosphate, a-D-glucose-1-this salt of phosphorus, D-ribose, bigcatkin willow
Glycosides, D-glucitol, L-sorbose, stachyose, K-trehalose, turanose, xylitol, y-aminobutyric acid, bromosuccinic acid, instead
Butene dioic acid ,-hydroxybutyric acid, y-hydroxybutyric acid, P-HPAA, a-ketoglutaric acid, D-malic acid, D-Glucose diacid, the last of the ten Heavenly stems
Diacid, succinic acid, succinic acid methyl ester, L-alanine amide, L-alanine, L-alanyl glycine, altheine,
L-Aspartic acid, glycyl-L-glutamic acid, L-phenyl handle propylhomoserin, proline, pyroglutamic acid, Serine, L-revives amino acid, 2-
Ethylaminoethanol, rotten glycosides, adenosine.The results are shown in Table 1. 
 Table 1: the impact that bacterial strain F77 is grown by the factor such as temperature, pH 
 
 
 
 
 
 Temperature (DEG C) 
 4 
 15 
 25 
 30 
 32 
 35 
 
 
 Growing state 
 - 
 + 
 + 
 ++++ 
 +++ 
 +++ 
 
 
 Temperature (DEG C) 
 38 
 45 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Growing state 
 ++ 
 - 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 pH 
 1 
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 
 
 Growing state 
 - 
 - 
 + 
 + 
 + 
 +++ 
 
 
 pH 
 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Growing state 
 +++ 
 + 
 - 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NaCl concentration 
 0% 
 1% 
 2% 
 3% 
 4% 
 5% 
 
 
 Growing state 
 + 
 ++ 
 +++ 
 +++ 
 +++ 
 + 
 
 
 NaCl concentration 
 6% 
 7% 
 8% 
 9% 
 10% 
 
 
 
 
 Growing state 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Ampicillin μ g/ml 
 50 
 60 
 70 
 80 
 90 
 100 
 
 
 Growing state 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 3. strain describes: radiation hardness aspergillosis of the present invention ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382
After PDA culture medium culturing 5d, being observed by the microscopy of inserted sheet and hydraulic pressure sheet, this bacterial strain mycelia is loosened fine hair shape, separates, bacterium colony
Surface is that Rice dumpling leaf is green, and sporophore and spore are homochromy, spore subcircular, and bunchiness raw around the sporophore top expanded, in
Radial distribution, without mitogenetic stigma.Radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 colonial morphology figure
See accompanying drawing 1. 
 
 
 Embodiment two: aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) qualification of F77CGMCC No. 8382 molecular level 
 1. DNA extraction: fungus extracting method is as follows: 
 (1) 200 mg thalline, liquid nitrogen grinding, add 3 ml 3% extract with CTAB buffer；65 DEG C of water-bath 45 min,
4 DEG C of 4000 r/min is centrifuged 20 min. 
 (2) take supernatant and forward in centrifuge tube, add 4 μ l 10 mg/ml protease, 37 DEG C, water-bath 1 h. 
 (3) adding the 800 μ saturated phenol of l Tris, shake up, 13000 r/min are centrifuged 10min；Take supernatant. 
 (4) adding isopyknic chloroform/isoamyl alcohol, shake up, 13000 r/min are centrifuged 10 min；Take supernatant. 
 (5) adding the RNase of 10 mg/ml, 37 DEG C of water-baths overnight process. 
 (6) adding 800 μ l chloroforms/isoamyl alcohol, shake up, 13000 r/min are centrifuged 10 min；Take supernatant. 
 (7) adding 600 μ l isoamyl alcohol ,-20 DEG C of precipitation 30 min, collect precipitation, 75% ethanol, rinse, super-clean bench is true
Empty dry. 
 (8) 100 μ l TE dissolving DNAs ,-20 DEG C save backup.Add the RNase of 1 μ l, 37 DEG C of water-bath 1 h；
Adding 400 μ l chloroforms/isoamyl alcohol (24: 1), 12000 r/min are centrifuged 10 min, are repeated 2 times. 
 2. the amplification of ITS1 gene and order-checking, expands with fungus ITS1 gene universal primer: 
 Primer I TS11:5'-TCCGTAGGTGAACCTGCGG-3' 
 ITS14:5'-TCCTCCGCTTATTGATATGC-3' 
 PCR amplification reaction system is 50 μ L, and reaction condition is: 95 ° of C, 5 min；95 ° of C, 45 S, 57 ° of C, 30 S,
72 ° of C, 90S, 30Cycles；72 ° of C, 7min.Amplified production (about 600 bp), pcr amplification product is with 1% agarose gel electricity
Swimming detection, checks order amplified production, the ITS1 gene order of bacterial strain F77 is measured, after measured, and aspergillosis
(Aspergillus sp.) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 ITS1 gene order is 600bp, sees the gene sequence of attached offer
List SEQUENCE LISTING. 
 3. ITS1 sequence alignment and Phylogenetic Analysis 
 The present invention is expanded by the PCR of the extraction of STb gene, ITS1 gene and order-checking.According to sequencing result, use
Blast search software recalls the ITS1 gene of the higher relevant actinomycetes strain of similarity from the data bases such as GenBank, EMBL
Gene order, carries out Multiple Sequence Alignment with CLUSTAL X, and use Saitou and Nei adjacent method ( Neighbor    Joining ) structure of systematic evolution tree is carried out with MEGA 5.0 software.Result sees shown in accompanying drawing 2, can from dendrogram
Going out, this bacterial strain and Aspergillus flavus strain PT18, in same branch, show that the sibship of the two is nearest, than
Result is shown, F77 and Aspergillus flavus ( Aspergillus flavus  PT18) homology is the highest, according to microorganism classification side
Method, is that F77 bacterial strain is initially identified as aspergillosis (Aspergillus sp.) by bacterium numbering. 
 Based on ITS1 gene order amplification and PCR product check order, it is thus achieved that 600bp sequence, through GenBank Blast
Homologous sequence comparison is analyzed, and its Aspergillus flavus reported with prior art (Aspergillus) homology is higher；From GenBank
Middle acquisition reference culture ITS1 gene order, carries out homology evolutionary analysis, constructing system cladogram, and result sees accompanying drawing 2；Result
Display, F77 bacterial strain is under the jurisdiction of aspergillus, with Aspergillus flavus ( Aspergillus flavus  PT18) parent source relation is nearest, but
Both there is also obvious difference, the strain of display different attribute, determines that bacterial strain F77 is radiation hardness Aspergillus strain, and the present invention orders
Entitled aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ). 
 
 
 Embodiment three: aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) capability of resistance to radiation of F77CGMCC No. 8382 
 Microbial treatment environmental radiation contact scar need to meet two conditions, i.e. can survive and to pollution in radiation environment
Nucleic has higher adsorptive selectivity.Fungi aspergillosis F77 is to extract in Soil Contaminated with Radionuclides, slant culture
After, warp 60 Co radioactive source gamma-ray irradiation, irradiation dose is accumulated as 10 kGy.Ratio is cultivated by irradiation sample and non-irradiation sample
Right, find that its growth the most irradiated impact, i.e. aspergillosis F77 have the strongest capability of resistance to radiation.Radiation characteristic (the γ spoke of F77
Penetrate) with Ferreira etc. [9] The method set up is verified.Bacterium is cultivated to stable phase at PDA fluid medium, and 4 DEG C are centrifuged
After with brine after, control 1 × 10 with suspended concentration in normal saline 7 –10 8  C.f.u/ ml, is divided into every part
2ml, 60 At room temperature it is irradiated with the close rate of 0.167 kGy/ min under Co.Exposure dose is with the width of 2.0 kGy
Degree is raised to 10.0 kGy from 0Gy.Illuminated sample is seen after being applied on PDA flat board cultivate 3-5 days at 30 DEG C after dilution
No have survival, to detect F77 for gamma-emitting resistance characteristics.Test show aspergillosis that the present invention provides ( Aspergillus    sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 through 10 kGy irradiation dose irradiate can normal growth, there is stronger radiation resistance. 
 
 
 Embodiment four: aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) the F77CGMCC No. 8382 toleration to acid 
 The vital movement of microorganism, substance metabolism and acid have substantial connection, different microorganisms growth course to want environment
Ask and differ.Growing environment determines the Biomass of microorganism, thus affects it to metal biosorption.In acid solution, metal
Element is many to be existed in the form of an ion, is beneficial to it by biological adsorption and absorption.To this end, investigated the aspergillosis F77 toleration to acid.?
Temperature is 30 DEG C, incubation time is under 70 h, the relation of aspergillosis F77 Biomass (dry mycelium quality) and culture medium solution pH
Can be found in accompanying drawing 3. 
 From accompanying drawing 3, aspergillosis F77 Biomass increases with the increase of culture medium solution pH, and pH < when 2.5, dry mycoplasma amount
All at 0.6 below g, illustrate that acid inhibits the growth of aspergillosis F77.During pH 4.5, Biomass reaches maximum, corresponding dry bacterium
Quality is 1.02 g.As pH > after 4.5, Biomass is not further added by.Some researcheres are thought, the vital movement of microorganism, material generation
Thanking and have substantial connection, appropriate acid to be beneficial to the growth of microorganism with acid, too high or too low acid is disadvantageous to growth of microorganism. 
 It is mainly manifested in: the too much hydrion in (1) solution may change the charge property of antimicrobial surface, affects it
Absorption to nutrient substance；(2) acid is in addition to directly affecting microbial cell, also can affect the ionizing of Cucumber in culture medium
Effect, thus remote-effects microorganism, (3) enzyme only its maximum activity of competence exertion under most suitable acidity, the change of acidity
Change can make the activity reduction of enzyme, and then affects the Biochemical processes in microbial cell. 
 As can be seen here, the Biomass of aspergillosis F77 increases along with pH value and increases.< when 2.5, the growth of aspergillosis F77 is obvious for pH
It is suppressed；During pH > 4.5, its hydrion reduces the growth on microorganism to be affected almost without for what；When pH=4.5, dry bacterium
Quality reach maximum 1.02 g. 
 
 
 Embodiment five: aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) absorption of stable cesium ion moved by F77CGMCC No. 8382
Mechanics study 
 1. aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorption experiment method 
 Aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorption experiment takes procedure below: pipette 100
ML PDA culture medium solution, in 500 mL conical flasks, needs to be quantitatively adding cesium ion solution according to experiment, inoculates appropriate F77 bacterium
Planting suspension (20 mL sterilized water uniformly mix), 180 rpm with the strain on inclined-plane, 30 DEG C of concussions are cultivated extremely experiment and are taken
Between.Solution centrifugal after cultivation, supernatant ICP-MS measures cesium ion concentration, and gained thalline dries to constant weight under the conditions of 60 DEG C,
For calculating Biomass. 
 Unit adsorbance and the computational methods of adsorption rate: 
 Characterizing the microorganism absorption situation to caesium by unit adsorbance (qe) and adsorption rate (R), computational methods are shown in
In formula (1), (2). 
 q e =(C 0 -C t )×V÷m         (1) 
 R=(C 0 -C t ) ÷ C 0 ×100%      (2) 
 Wherein, C0 is the initial concentration of caesium, mg/L in solution；Ct is the concentration of caesium, mg/L in solution after the absorption t time；V
For adsorbent solution volume, L；M is the dry mycoplasma amount of aspergillosis F77, g. 
 2. aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorption dynamics adsorption kinetics research 
 Be 30 DEG C, pH 6.5 at adsorption temp, under conditions of cesium ion concentration is 10 mg/L, adsorption rate over time and
Increasing rapidly, reach adsorption equilibrium at about 70 h, adsorption rate is about 70%, and hereafter adsorption rate changes over and do not sees very much
Accompanying drawing 4.Cesium ion absorption is increased by this mainly due to along with microorganism, and the absorption of cesium ion is progressivelyed reach full by cell surface
With, its repulsion produced is strengthened by cell wall, the resistance causing metal ion to enter further into cell surface increases, then
Reach the relative equilibrium stage.Along with the prolongation of incubation time, the adsorption rate of caesium is slightly reduced, shows along with nutrient by microorganism
Matter is depleted, and thalline starts death, autolysis even occurs, breaks sloid-liq-uid adsorption balance, causes thalline adsorption rate to decline. 
 Use false second-order kinetic equation: simulate the adsorption dynamics adsorption kinetics of aspergillosis F77, be expressed as follows: 
 t÷q t =1÷(kq 2   e )+1÷q e ×t       (5) 
 Wherein: t is duration of oscillation, h；Qt is the t aspergillosis F77 adsorbance to caesium, mg/g；K is pseudo-second-order model speed
Rate constant, g mg -1 H -1 ；The aspergillosis F77 adsorbance to caesium when qe is balance, mg/g.T is mapped to obtain with t/qe a straight line, ginseng
Shown in figure as medium and small in accompanying drawing 4, slope and intercept by straight line try to achieve k=0.091 g mg -1 H -1 , qe=0.943 mg/g is relevant
Coefficients R 2=0.991, illustrates that aspergillosis F77 meets false second-order kinetics model to the absorption of caesium.. 
 Visible, aspergillosis F77 growth rate quickly, stops growing after 70 h and cesium ion absorption is reached balance, about
After 200 h, there is autolysis in microorganism, causes caesium adsorption rate to decline. 
 
 
 Embodiment six: cesium ion initial concentration to aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 adsorbs
Impact 
 It is 30 DEG C at adsorption temp, under conditions of pH 6.5, incubation time be 70 h, aspergillosis F77 is inoculated in containing difference
In concentration cesium ion (0.1,1.0,10.0,100,200,500 mg/L) culture fluid, adsorbance sees with cesium ion concentration change
Shown in accompanying drawing 5. 
 Along with the rising of cesium ion concentration, the adsorbance of caesium is also gradually increased by aspergillosis F77, at tested cesium ion concentration
In the range of, unit adsorbance and cesium ion concentration positive correlation, when caesium concentration is 500 mg/L, the unit of caesium is inhaled by aspergillosis F77
Attached amount is 30 mg/g, but not up to maximal absorptive capacity, illustrate that aspergillosis F77 has stronger adsorption to cesium ion.Thalline is micro-
Little, its specific surface area is big, increases the concentration of metal ion in solution, adds the collision probability between metal ion and thalline, have
Help the thalline absorption to caesium.Additionally, the resistance to mass tranfer quilt along with the increase of metal ion in solution concentration, between solid-liquid is biphase
Overcoming, improve the collision probability between metal ion and thalline, beneficially thalline is to metal biosorption. 
 In the range of experiment cesium ion concentration, aspergillosis F77 all more than 60%, shows that aspergillosis F77 is to caesium to the adsorption rate of caesium
There is stronger absorbability.In most cases, microorganism meets the suction of Freundlich isothermal to the adsorption process of radionuclide
Attached formula, is fitted experimental data with Freundlich equation: 
 Q e =K F C e   1/n                    (3) 
 Take the logarithm in both sides: 
 1gq e =1gK F +1÷n×1gC e          (4) 
 Wherein, KF is Freundlich adsorption coefficient；Qe is equilibrium adsorption capacities, mg/g；Ce is that adsorption equilibrium quality is dense
Degree, mg/L.Lgqe being mapped lgCe, be shown graphically in the attached figures in 6, obtaining coefficient R 2 is the straight line of 0.998, and aspergillosis F77 is described
The adsorption process of caesium can be described well with Freundlich isothermal adsorpting equation, intercept be calculated KF=0.25. 
 Visible, aspergillosis F77 has higher adsorption rate to caesium, in the range of research caesium initial concentration, and the aspergillosis F77 suction to caesium
Attached rate is more than 60%, and adsorbance reaches 30 mg/g when caesium concentration is 500 mg/L, and its absorption behavior more meets Freundlich
Equation, its KF=0.25. 
 
 
 Embodiment seven: potassium ion to aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 absorption impact 
 In surrounding medium, coexisting ion is to affect microorganism to one of key factor that object ion adsorbs.Potassium is widely present
In various surrounding mediums, being also the indispensable element of growth of microorganism, the growth to microorganism has considerable influence simultaneously.Due to potassium
Belong to alkali metal together with caesium, there is similar physicochemical property, certainly exist absorption between such potassium and caesium and absorb competitive relation.
Adsorption temp be 30 DEG C, pH 6.5, cesium ion concentration be 10 mg/L, under conditions of incubation time is 70 h, investigated solution
Middle variable concentrations potassium (5 mg/L ~ 20000 mg/L) is on aspergillosis F77 growth and the impact of absorption caesium, and result sees accompanying drawing 7. 
 By seeing shown in accompanying drawing 7, along with the increase of potassium concentration in solution, the Biomass of aspergillosis F77 is also continuously increased,
When the concentration of potassium is 10000 mg/L, Biomass (dry weight) reaches the highest 1.411 g.Along with the increase of potassium concn, the suction of caesium
Attached amount is decreased obviously.After the potassium concn in solution is more than 5000 mg/L, the absorbance of caesium is only about 15%, but no longer drops
Low.This is because reach balance along with the competition of caesium and potassium exchanges, the absorbance of caesium tends towards stability. 
 Visible, potassium ion is conducive to the growth of aspergillosis F77, and when the concentration of potassium ion is 10000 mg/L, Biomass is (dry
Weight) reach the highest 1.411 g.But when potassium concentration exceedes caesium concentration about 30 times, the adsorption rate of caesium is substantially dropped by aspergillosis F77
Low.When potassium concentration is more than 5000 mg/L, the adsorption rate of caesium is only had about 15% by aspergillosis F77.See accompanying drawing 7 
 
 
 Embodiment eight: affect aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) research of F77CGMCC No. 8382 adsorpting factor 
 The culture medium used: PDA culture medium: Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g, glucose 20g, distilled water 1000ml, pH are natural.Make
Cs + Concentration respectively 20mg/L PDA culture medium, and leave and take a part and do not connect the initial medium of strain and oppose in the same old way, to record training
Support Cs in base + Actual value. 
 From inclined-plane, picking thalline makes bacteria suspension, toward above-mentioned containing variable concentrations Cs + PDA culture medium in inoculate respectively
Experimental strain spore suspension, 180rpm, cultivation temperature is 30 DEG C, after 72h cultivated by shaking table, No. 1 filter paper filtering culture fluid, point
From thalline and filtrate, respectively through inductivity coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) test sample, calculate bacterial strain absorption Cs + Ability.Impact
Adsorpting factor development test is as follows: 
 The 1.pH impact on absorption: solution acidity is one of principal element affecting aspergillosis F77 absorption.System is deposited in a large number
Hydrion, change antimicrobial surface character, impact to metal biosorption.To this end, investigated system acidity to aspergillosis
The impact of F77 absorption caesium.Temperature be 30 DEG C, caesium concentration be 10 mg/L, under conditions of incubation time is 70 h, different pH trainings
Support aspergillosis F77 in based sols the absorption situation of caesium be can be found in accompanying drawing 8. 
 The absorption of caesium is proportionate by aspergillosis F77 with solution ph, and adsorption rate raises with pH value of solution and promptly increases.?
2 < pH < when 3.5, caesium is adsorbed hardly.It is generally believed that there is competitive Adsorption effect between hydrion and metal cation [10] .Molten
Hydrion in liquid occupies the functional adsorption group (such as hydroxyl, amino, carboxyl etc.) on aspergillosis F77 surface, affects microorganism
Absorption to caesium.During pH > 3.5, the adsorption rate of caesium increases rapidly, and this and aspergillosis F77 growth tendency are consistent, illustrate along with bacterial strain
Increment must increase, and aspergillosis F77 surface adsorption site sharply increases, and increases the interaction of caesium and adsorption group.And pH > 5
After, increase after adsorption rate about 70% and tend towards stability.Illustrate that the adsorption site on aspergillosis F77 surface is gradually satisfied along with pH value of solution raises
With, thus adsorption rate no longer increases.For obtaining optimal adsorption effect, subsequent adsorbtion experiment is all entered in the solution of pH more than 5
OK. 
 As can be seen here, hydrion is the adsorption inhibitor that cesium ion is important, and 2.0 < pH, < when 3.5, caesium is almost without being inhaled
Attached, at pH > in the faintly acid system of 5.0, aspergillosis F77 reaches 70% to the adsorption rate of caesium. 
 2. biomass is for the impact of absorption: in order to determine that the bacterial strain filtered out is growth limit, limit to the absorption of cesium ion
Thalline absorption after absorption or growth, has done thalline adsorption experiment, has collected thalline by PDA culture medium mass propgation.First
Carry out the impact for absorption of the thalline quality. 
 (0.1g, 0.2 g, 0.5 g, 0.8 g, 1 g, 1.2 g, 1.5 g) put respectively to weigh the thalline of different quality respectively
In the solution system that 15ml cesium ion concentration is 20mg/l, absorption overnight, samples and measures through ICP-MS, and result shows: thalline
Adsorption rate, respectively less than grow adsorption rate, it is determined that the bacterial strain filtered out to the suction type of the absorption of caesium be growth limit, limit inhale
Attached.Along with biomass increases, adsorption rate is also slowly increased, and when reaching a certain amount of, adsorption rate no longer changes, and i.e. reaches flat
Weighing apparatus.Along with the increase of biomass, under fixing metal ions CONCENTRATION STATE, the adsorbance of unit thalline is to reduce.See attached
Fig. 9. 
 3. the impact that adsorption time adsorbs for thalline: weigh 0.5g thalline, concussion is suspended in cesium ion concentration and is respectively
In the 10ml solution system of 20mg/l, interval 1h sampling.Sample through ICP-MS measure, result show thalline adsorption rate well below
Growth absorption, increases over time adsorption rate and does not dramatically increase, and simply fluctuates up and down in certain value scope, and thalline is inhaled
Attached the transients of being likely to, sees accompanying drawing 10. 
 4. the impact that temperature is adsorbed for thalline: weighing 0.5g thalline, it is 20mg/ that concussion is suspended in caesium (strontium) ion concentration
In the 10ml solution system of l, it is respectively placed in 10 DEG C of-90 DEG C of water-baths, absorption 1h sampling.Sample measures through ICP-MS. 
 For F77 bacterial strain, along with the rising adsorption rate of temperature declines on the contrary, it was demonstrated that temperature for F77 thalline absorption caesium from
Son interferes significantly on.See accompanying drawing 11. 
 
 
 Embodiment nine: aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77CGMCC No. 8382 resistance to heavy metal characteristic 
 By bacterial strain aspergillosis of the present invention ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 is inoculated in equipped with 5mlPDA liquid
In the seed test tube of body culture medium, in 30 DEG C of cultivations, after 200rpm shaken cultivation 36h, it is inoculated in by 2% inoculum concentration and contains respectively
The Ni of variable concentrations + , Cr 2+ 、Zn 2+ 、Co 2+ 、 Pb 2+ 、Hg 2+ In PDA liquid fermentation bottle, the amount of adding is that 500ml triangle is bottled
100ml PDA fluid medium, in 30 DEG C of cultivations, 220rpm shaken cultivation 72h, observes the growing state of strain；Can draw
Bacterial strain aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77 CGMCC No. 8382 is to Ni + , Cr 2+ , Zn 2+ 、Co 2+ 、 Pb 2+ 、Hg 2+ Six kinds from
Son is respectively provided with resistance characteristics, wherein to Pb 2+ 、Zn  2+ , Ni + Tolerable concentration maximum, respectively up to 1000 mg/L and 500 mg/
L, 500 mg/L；To Co 2+ , Cr 2+ , Hg 2+ Toleration take second place, be all up 200 mg/L；PDA culture medium (Rhizoma Solani tuber osi 200g,
Glucose 20g, distilled water 1000ml, pH are natural).Through 28 DEG C, 48h cultivation., 
 
 
 Embodiment ten: aspergillosis ( Aspergillus sp. ) F77CGMCC No. 8382 is to stabilizing ion and radiocesium
Adsorption test 
 The most variant for the absorption of radiocesium and stability caesium for measuring F77, devise following experimental program, point
In the PDA culture medium containing the stable cesium ion of 10mg/L, do not add 1ml(6772.95 Bake) radiocesium mother solution, and
2ml(13545.9 Bake) radiocesium mother solution, inoculate F77, cultivate to the suitableeest growth time, collect sample.Pass through respectively
ICP-MS and liquid flashing determining bacterial strain in growth course to stability caesium and the absorption of radiocesium. 
 Table 2: bacterial strain is to radiocesium-growth adsorption test design 
 
 
 
 Shown in accompanying drawing 12, the adsorption rate of stable caesium, in the presence of radiocesium, is decreased obviously by strain F77, and
In the presence of one times of radiocesium and twice radiocesium, little to stability caesium adsorption rate difference, for the absorption of radiocesium
Rate difference is the most little. 
 In sum, verified by above-mentioned serial experiment, by the present invention utilize radiation hardness aspergillosis ( Aspergillus    sp. ) the growth absorption cesium ion of F77 CGMCC NO.8382 thalline, and radiocesium, it is also possible to directly use dry mycelium suction
Attached, maximum adsorption ability is up to 44.5mg/g dry mycelium. 
 List of references: 
 (1) Sitte, J., et al., Microbial links between sulfate reduction and    metal retention in uranium- and heavy metal-contaminated soil. Appl Environ    Microbiol , 2010. 76(10): 3143-3152。 
 (2) Burkhardt, E.M., et al., Impact of biostimulated redox processes    on metal dynamics in an iron-rich creek soil of a former uranium mining area.    Environ Sci Technol , 2010. 44(1): 177-183。 
 (3) Beyenal, H., et al., Uranium immobilization by sulfate-reducing    biofilms. Environ Sci Technol , 2004. 38(7):. 2067-2074。 
 (4) Hwang, C., et al., Bacterial community succession during in situ    uranium bioremediation: spatial similarities along controlled flow paths.    ISME J , 2009. 3(1): 47-64。 
 (5) Bhainsa, K. C. and S. F. D'Souza (1999). "Biosorption of uranium    (VI) by Aspergillus fumigatus." Biotechnology techniques  13(10): 695-699。 
 (6) the yellow people's livelihood, Zheng Leping, Zhu Jinliang. microorganism is to the enrichment of uranium in water and reduction. nuclear technology. 2002,25
(2): 123-131。 
 (7) Entry, J., L. Watrud, et al. (1999). "Accumulation of 137Cs and    90Sr from contaminated soil by three grass species inoculated with    mycorrhizal fungi." Environmental Pollution  104: 449-457。 
 (8) Groudev, S., P. Georgiev, et al. (2001). "Bioremediation of a soil    contaminated with radioactive elements." Hydrometallurgy  59(2-3): 311-318。 
 (9) Ferreira, A. C., Nobre, M. F., Rainey, F. A., Silva, M. T., Wait,    R., Burghardt, J., Chung, A. P. & Da Costa, M. S.  (1997) 。 
 (10) Harshala Parab. Shreeram Joshi etal. Uranium removal from aqueous    solution by coir pith: equilibrium and kinetic studies[J]. Bioresource    Technology . 2005, 96(11):1241-1248。 
                                         SEQUENCE LISTING 
 <110>Microorgan Application Inst., Xinjiang Agricultural Academy 
 <120>a kind of radiation hardness aspergillosis and the application in absorption Ce 137 biological treatment thereof 
 <130>a kind of radiation hardness aspergillosis and the application in absorption Ce 137 biological treatment thereof 
 <160>  1 
 <170>  PatentIn version 3.3 
 <210>  1 
 <211>  600 
 <212>  DNA 
 <213>  Aspergillus sp.F77 CGMCC No. 8382 
 <220> 
 <221>  ITS1 
 <222>  (1)..(600) 
 <400>  1 
 cttcccgtaa agggtacctg cggaaggatc attaccgagt gtagggttcc tagcgagccc     60 
 aacctcccac ccgtgtttac tgtaccttag ttgcttcggc gggcccgcca ttcgtggccg    120 
 ccgggggctc tcagccccgg gcccgcgccc gccggagaca ccacgaactc tgtctgatct    180 
 agtgaagtct gagttgattg tatcgcaatc agttaaaact ttcaacaatg gatctcttgg    240 
 ttccggcatc gatgaagaac gcagcgaaat gcgataacta gtgtgaattg cagaattccg    300 
 tgaatcatcg agtctttgaa cgcacattgc gccccctggt attccggggg gcatgcctgt    360 
 ccgagcgtca ttgctgccca tcaagcacgg cttgtgtgtt gggtcgtcgt cccctctccg    420 
 ggggggacgg gccccaaagg cagcggcggc accgcgtccg atcctcgagc gtatggggct    480 
 ttgtcacccg ctctgtaggc ccggccggcg cttgccgaac gcaaatcaat cttttccagg    540 
 ttgacctcgg atcaggtagg gatacccgct gaacttaagc atatcaaaag acggaggaaa    600 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
