
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg 
 
 Technical field
 
 The present invention relates to such as cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg and manufacture method thereof.
 
 
 
 Background technology
 
 Carotenoid can be used as the natural pigment of feed additive, food additives, medicine etc..Carotenoid includes such as: cryptoxanthin, beta-carotene, β-cryptoxanthine, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, lycopene, phoenicoxanthin (phoenicoxanthin), ADX (adonixanthin), echinenone, asteroidenone and 3-hydroxyechinenon etc..
 
 In carotenoid, it is known that cryptoxanthin is added in feedstuff to improve the purposes of the tone of the egg yolk of the poultries such as chicken, meat, epidermis and the purposes of the coloring agent as food as natural xanthein contained in the various plants such as Semen Maydis.On the other hand, cryptoxanthin has potent antioxidation, thus for human eye the fact that health plays an important role the most well known (non-patent literature 1).Cryptoxanthin is present in the central part (macula area) of eye retina in a large number, it is believed that show the filter function for harmful light such as ultraviolet and the function as antioxidant.
 
 According to these physiologic effect, it is believed that cryptoxanthin and eyes holistic health, particularly with senile degeneration of macula (Age-related
Macular Degeneration；The oculopathy risk closely related (non-patent literature 2) such as AMD).It addition, as other usefulness, also report has antitumous effect (non-patent literature 3).So, it is believed that cryptoxanthin is expected to as health food raw material or raw material chemicals.
 
 Cryptoxanthin when using in these purposes kinetics in human body is investigated.First, it is stated that people from orally ingestible cryptoxanthin for the raw material of meals and via intestinal absorption to internal.Absorb the most internal cryptoxanthin to be moved in human body by blood.Actually in human blood, contain cryptoxanthin (non-patent literature 4) by common meals.It addition, the trial of zeaxanthin concentration existing a large amount of report up to now in raising human blood.As cryptoxanthin source, it is contemplated that department of botany's cryptoxanthin source of the citruss such as the greengrocery such as Herba Spinaciae, Semen Maydis or mandarin orange, the animal system cryptoxanthin source such as egg yolk of egg or the supplement etc. containing cryptoxanthin.Wherein, for the cryptoxanthin source of department of botany, it is believed that be difficult to improve its concentration artificially, thus be roughly divided into and cryptoxanthin source is matched with in chicken feed the zeaxanthin concentration improving in egg or the method improving people's blood level with supplement.
 
 Manufacture method as cryptoxanthin, it is known to such as: use by hydroxy-ketone optically active obtained by the asymmetric reduction of ketoisophorone as the chemical synthesis (non-patent literature 5) of raw material and from corn seed extract method (non-patent literature 6).It addition, it is known that the method (patent documentation 1) extracting cryptoxanthin from Flos Inulae, but the main constituent deriving from the carotenoid of Flos Inulae is lutein, and the content of cryptoxanthin is low.
 
 Additionally, example as the microorganism producing cryptoxanthin, it is known to: spiral algae (patent documentation 2), microsphere algae (Nannochloris) belong to fine algae (patent documentation 3), Characters of Flexibacter Strains (Flexibacter) belongs to antibacterial (patent documentation 4), Alteromonad (Alteromonas) belongs to antibacterial (patent documentation 5), Flavobacterium (Flavobacterium) belongs to antibacterial (non-patent literature 7) and the orange edaphic bacillus of antibacterial (Agrobacterium aurantiacum) (non-patent literature 8).And then, the secondary coccus (Paracoccus) producing bacterium for being known as carotenoid belongs to antibacterial, for example, as it is known that produce maize quality pair coccus (Paracoccus zeaxanthinifaciens) ATCC
The mutant (patent documentation 7) of 21588 strains (non-patent literature 9), the mutant (patent documentation 6) of Production by Bacteria carotin pair coccus (Paracoccus carotinifaciens) E-396 strain, the mutant (patent documentation 6) of paracoccus antibacterial A-581-1 strain and paracoccus antibacterial can produce cryptoxanthin.
 
 Cryptoxanthin has use example (non-patent literature 10) of supplement obtained by the industry of Flavobacterium (Flavobacteria) is cultivated as the example that people is given by supplement.Now, sky 30mg absorbs 120 days, is originally used for zeaxanthin concentration in the blood of 0.086 μM and rises to 0.48 μM.Now, relative to the ratio of the increments of intake be 0.01 μM/(mg/Day) (" μM/(mg/Day) " means that in the blood of the cryptoxanthin intake (mg/Day) relative to every 1 day, cryptoxanthin adds concentration (μM)).It addition, use in the example (non-patent literature 11) that people is given by the cryptoxanthin prepared by chemosynthesis, sky 12.6mg absorbs 6 months, is originally used for zeaxanthin concentration in the blood of 0.04 μM and rises to 0.85 μM.Now, relative to the ratio of the increments of intake be 0.06 μM/(mg/Day).And then, afterwards by the cryptoxanthin 6 months of picked-up doubling dose, in blood, zeaxanthin concentration rises to 1.09 μMs.Now, relative to the ratio of the increments of intake be 0.01 μM/(mg/Day).
 
 Giving the example of supplement relative to these, the people's blood level rising to cryptoxanthin during picked-up egg also has numerical example to report.Egg 2/day or 4/day absorb in the example (non-patent literature 12) of 35 days, and before picked-up, in blood, zeaxanthin concentration is 0.03 μM, in contrast, increases to 0.05 μM and 0.06 μM respectively.Now relative to the ratio of the increments of intake be 0.03 μM/(mg/Day).And then, egg 1/day absorbs in the example (non-patent literature 13) of 35 days, and before picked-up, blood level is 0.04 μM, and in contrast, after picked-up, blood level is 0.06 μM, add rate be 0.16 μM/(mg/Day).It addition, 6, egg/absorb in week in the example (non-patent literature 14) of 12 weeks, before picked-up, blood level is 0.1 μM, and in contrast, after picked-up, blood level is 0.15 μM, add rate be 0.43 μM/(mg/Day).
 
 Comprehensive example above, can increase the intake of cryptoxanthin relatively easily, thus can improve people's blood level (0.48～1.09 μM) in the example of supplement.But, intake is the lowest to the effect of blood level, needs to absorb in a large number.Generally, the manufacturing cost of carotenoid is the highest, thus this low poor efficiency becomes problem.
 
 On the other hand, for egg, for the worry of cholesterol etc., the boundary of the amount can absorbed for 1 day be 1 day 1 to about 2.Therefore, zeaxanthin concentration the lowest (0.06～0.15 μM) in the human blood can expected.But, in the situation of egg, from the viewpoint of efficiency, the efficiency higher than supplement can be obtained.If it is therefore contemplated that import a large amount of cryptoxanthin in egg, then can make efficiently to improve zeaxanthin concentration in human blood and become easy.
 
 But, in egg market in recent years, in addition to the common egg obtained with usual diet, occur in that and take the special egg of more high additive value obtained by raising chicken by addition functional components, such as folic acid (patent documentation 8), vitamin E (patent documentation 9), Semen Lini (patent documentation 10), astaxanthin (patent documentation 11) etc. in feedstuff.
 
 Additionally, the method of zeaxanthin concentration in egg yolk is improved, it is known in feedstuff, add the method (patent documentation 2) of spiral frond, the fruit adding Fructus Lycii in feedstuff or the method (patent documentation 12) etc. of its extract as utilizing the feedstuff containing cryptoxanthin.
 
 But, when adding spirulina in feedstuff, the zeaxanthin concentration in spiral frond is low (1.0mg/g), when the cryptoxanthin strengthening egg of output high concentration, then exists and adds the problem that quantitative change is many.In order to keep the nutritive equilibrium in feedstuff, it is generally desirable to addition is few.During it addition, use spirulina to strengthen zeaxanthin concentration, the zeaxanthin concentration in egg yolk is 1.65mg/100g to the maximum.
 
 On the other hand, when feedstuff adds the fruit of Fructus Lycii, in addition to the zeaxanthin concentration in the fruit of Fructus Lycii low (1.1mg/100g), also have by the shortcoming being difficult to stable supplying about weather.It addition, the concentration using the fruit of Fructus Lycii to strengthen in the egg yolk of zeaxanthin concentration is 3.35mg/100g to the maximum.
 
 Therefore, even if the addition in the zeaxanthin concentration height in raw material, feedstuff is few, zeaxanthin concentration in egg yolk can also be enhanced to more than 3.35mg/100g, it is possible to the manufacture method of the egg of stable supplying and use this egg to be effectively improved in human blood the method for cryptoxanthin by demand.
 
 
 
 Prior art literature
 
 Patent documentation
 
 Patent documentation 1: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 8-092205 publication
 
 Patent documentation 2: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 10-155430 publication
 
 Patent documentation 3: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 7-59558 publication
 
 Patent documentation 4: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 5-328978 publication
 
 Patent documentation 5: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 5-49497 publication
 
 Patent documentation 6: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2005-87097 publication
 
 Patent documentation 7: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2007-151475 publication
 
 Patent documentation 8: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2005-224157 publication
 
 Patent documentation 9: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2005-348725 publication
 
 Patent documentation 10: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 8-80164 publication
 
 Patent documentation 11: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 7-143864 publication
 
 Patent documentation 12: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2008-22703 publication
 
 Non-patent literature
 
 Non-patent literature 1:Ma L. and Lin X.M., " J.
Sci. Food. Agric. ", 2010, volume 90, No. 1, pp. 2-12
 
 Non-patent literature 2:Stahl
W., " Dev. Ophthalmol. ", 2005, volume 38, pp. 70-88
 
 Non-patent literature 3:Tsushima
Etc., M. " Biol.
Pharm. Bull. ", nineteen ninety-five, volume 18, No. 2, pp. 227-233
 
 Non-patent literature 4:Sugiura
Etc., M. " Br.
J. Nutr. ", 2009, volume 102, No. 8, pp. 1211-1219
 
 Non-patent literature 5:Paust
Etc., J. " Pure
Appl. Chem. ", 1991, volume 63, No. 1, pp. 45-58
 
 Non-patent literature 6: " raw body colour element ",
1974, towards shop
 
 Non-patent literature 7:L.
Ninet and J. Renaut, " Carotenoids, in Microbial Technology ", New York:Academic Press,
1979, second edition, volume 1, pp.
529-544
 
 Non-patent literature 8:Akihiro
Yokoyama and Wataru Miki, " FEMS Microbiology Letters ",
Nineteen ninety-five, volume 128, pp. 139-144
 
 Non-patent literature 9:Alan
Berry etc., " International
Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology ", 2003, volume 53, pp. 231-238
 
 Non-patent literature 10:Bone
Etc., R.A. " J.
Nutr. ", 2003, volume 133, No. 4, pp. 992-998
 
 Non-patent literature 11:Schalch
Etc., W. " Arch.
Biochem. Biophys. ", 2007, volume 458, No. 2, pp. 128-135
 
 Non-patent literature 12:Vishwanathan
Etc., R. " Am.
J. Clin. Nutr. ", 2009, volume 90, No. 5, pp. 1272-1279
 
 Non-patent literature 13:Goodrow
Etc., E.F. " J.
Nutr. ", 2006, volume 136, No. 10, pp. 2519-2524
 
 Non-patent literature 14:Wenzel
Etc., A.J. " J.
Nutr. ", 2006, volume 136, No. 10, pp. 2568-2573.
 
 
 
 Summary of the invention
 
 Invention to solve the technical problem that
 
 In view of above-mentioned practical situation, it is an object of the invention to provide the cryptoxanthin strengthening egg containing cryptoxanthin with high concentration that can stably manufacture.
 
 For solving the means of technical problem
 
 Conduct in-depth research to solve above-mentioned problem, it was found that by the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin is added to the feedstuff of the poultry such as chicken, the poultry egg of cryptoxanthin can be contained with output with high concentration, thus completes the present invention.
 
 The present invention comprises herein below.
 
 (1) poultry egg, wherein, containing relative to the cryptoxanthin that egg yolk 100g is 3.5mg～10mg in egg yolk.
 
 (2) poultry egg described in (1), wherein said poultry is chicken.
 
 (3) cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg, it is to obtain by poultry is raised the poultry feed with the antibacterial containing generation cryptoxanthin.
 
 (4) the cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg described in (3), wherein, described antibacterial is belonging to the antibacterial that secondary coccus (Paracoccus) belongs to.
 
 (5) the cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg described in (3) or (4), wherein, the cryptoxanthin addition in described feedstuff is more than 1mg relative to this feedstuff 100g.
 
 (6) the cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg according to any one of (3)～(5), wherein, containing relative to the cryptoxanthin that egg yolk 100g is 1.5mg～10mg in egg yolk.
 
 (7) the cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg according to any one of (3)～(6), wherein, described poultry is chicken.
 
 (8) manufacture method of cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg, it includes raising poultry with the step of the poultry feed containing the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin.
 
 (9) method described in (8), wherein, described antibacterial is belonging to the antibacterial of paracoccus.
 
 (10) method described in (8) or (9), wherein, the cryptoxanthin addition in described feedstuff is more than 1mg relative to this feedstuff 100g.
 
 (11) method according to any one of (8)～(10), wherein, described cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg contains relative to the cryptoxanthin that egg yolk 100g is 1.5mg～10mg in egg yolk.
 
 (12) method according to any one of (8)～(11), wherein, described poultry is chicken.
 
 (13) poultry feed, it contains the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin.
 
 (14) poultry feed described in (13), wherein, described antibacterial is belonging to the antibacterial of paracoccus.
 
 (15) poultry feed described in (13) or (14), wherein, cryptoxanthin addition is more than 1mg relative to this feedstuff 100g.
 
 (16) poultry feed according to any one of (13)～(15), wherein, described poultry is chicken.
 
 This specification includes the content described in the description of the Japanese patent application 2011-037619 as the application basis for priority and/or accompanying drawing.
 
 Invention effect
 
 According to the present invention it is possible to manufacture the cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg containing cryptoxanthin with high concentration.Further, it is possible to use this cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg is effectively improved zeaxanthin concentration in human blood.
 
 
 
 Accompanying drawing explanation
 
 [Fig. 1] is the figure of the zeaxanthin concentration in the egg yolk illustrating the cryptoxanthin strengthening egg manufactured in embodiment 1.
 
 [Fig. 2] is the figure of zeaxanthin concentration in the blood illustrating the experimenter that intake of cryptoxanthin strengthening egg in embodiment 3.
 
 
 
 Detailed description of the invention
 
 Hereinafter, the present invention is further illustrated.The scope of the present invention is not limited to described above, outside following illustration, it is also possible to implement not damaging suitable change in the range of present subject matter.
 
 The present invention relates to the poultry egg (following, sometimes referred to as " cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg ") containing cryptoxanthin with high concentration.The poultry egg containing this cryptoxanthin with high concentration can raise to poultry feed, to poultry with this feedstuff by being added by the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin and raise and take egg and obtain.Therefore, the invention still further relates to the manufacture method (hereinafter referred to as " this method ") of cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg, it includes raising poultry with the step of the poultry feed containing the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin.According to this method, by using the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin, can make the egg yolk (egg yolk) of poultry egg contains cryptoxanthin with high concentration.
 
 Here, " cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg " means compared with zeaxanthin concentration in the egg yolk of common poultry egg, the poultry egg that in egg yolk, zeaxanthin concentration is the highest.
 
 It addition, as poultry, can enumerate such as: chicken, Carnis Coturnicis japonicae, turkey, galeeny, pigeon, duck, goose etc., particularly preferred chicken.
 
 In this method, first prepare to produce the antibacterial of cryptoxanthin.As the antibacterial used in this method, as long as the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin does not then have any restriction, the antibacterial belonging to paracoccus preferably can be used.Belong among the antibacterial of paracoccus, product carotin pair coccus (Paracoccus is preferably used
Carotinifaciens), geneva pair coccus (Paracoccus
Marcusii), haeundaensis pair coccus (Paracoccus haeundaensis), product maize quality pair coccus (Paracoccus
Zeaxanthinifaciens), product carotin pair coccus is particularly preferably used.As the example of the concrete bacterial strain of the antibacterial belonging to paracoccus, can enumerate: produce carotin pair coccus E-396 strain (deposit number: FERM
BP-4283；International Depository Authority: Independent Administrative Leged Industrial Technology Complex Inst's Patent Organism preservation center (つ く ば city of Ibaraki county 1-1-1 つ く ば セ Application タ central authorities the 6th 305-8566, Japan)；International accession day: 5 years (1993) 27 days April of Heisei) and paracoccus antibacterial A-581-1 strain (deposit number: FERM
BP-4671；International Depository Authority: Independent Administrative Leged Industrial Technology Complex Inst's Patent Organism preservation center (つ く ば city of Ibaraki county 1-1-1 つ く ば セ Application タ central authorities the 6th 305-8566, Japan)；International accession day: 6 years (1994) 20 days Mays of Heisei), it addition, these bacterial strains are suddenlyd change so that the preferential mutant of cryptoxanthin that produces is it is also preferred that use in the method compared with parental strain.And then, produce other example of the concrete bacterial strain of antibacterial as cryptoxanthin, product maize quality pair coccus ATCC 21588 strain (non-patent literature 9) can be enumerated.
 
 It addition, produce antibacterial as cryptoxanthin, the antibacterial that the base sequence of the base sequence of the DNA corresponding to 16S ribosomal RNA and the E-396 strain described in sequence numbering 1 is substantially the same preferably can be used.Here, " being substantially the same " means the error frequency the etc. during base sequence considering to determine DNA, base sequence preferably more than 95%, more preferably more than 96%, further preferred more than 97%, particularly preferred more than 98%, most preferably more than 99% identical.Homology can resolve software Clustal by such as gene
W determines.
 
 It addition, " corresponding to the base sequence of DNA of 16S ribosomal RNA " means to be replaced into the U (uracil) in the base sequence of 16S ribosomal RNA the base sequence of T (thymus pyrimidine).
 
 As the method cultivating the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin, as long as produce the condition then any means of cryptoxanthin, such as, method as described below can be used.That is, as culture medium, such as, carbon source, nitrogen source, inorganic salt and the culture medium of special requirement material (such as, vitamin, aminoacid, nucleic acid etc.) as required required for the growth containing production bacterium is used.
 
 Here, as carbon source, can enumerate such as: the saccharides such as glucose, sucrose, fructose, trehalose, mannose, mannitol, maltose；The organic acid such as acetic acid, fumaric acid, citric acid, propanoic acid, malic acid, malonic acid；The alcohols etc. such as ethanol, propanol, butanol, amylalcohol, hexanol, isobutanol, can use the one kind or two or more of them.Its adding proportion is different according to the kind of carbon source, but being commonly angled relative to culture medium 1L is 1～100g, preferably 2～50g.
 
 As nitrogen source, can use such as: potassium nitrate, ammonium nitrate, ammonium chloride, ammonium sulfate, ammonium phosphate, ammonia, urea etc., the one kind or two or more of them can be used.Its adding proportion is different according to the kind in nitrogen source, but being commonly angled relative to culture medium 1L is 0.1～20g, preferably 1～10g.
 
 Additionally, as inorganic salt, can enumerate such as: potassium dihydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, disodium hydrogen phosphate, magnesium sulfate, magnesium chloride, iron sulfate, iron chloride, manganese sulfate, manganese chloride, zinc sulfate, zinc chloride, copper sulfate, calcium chloride, calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate etc., the one kind or two or more of them can be used.Its adding proportion is different according to the kind of inorganic salt, but being commonly angled relative to culture medium 1L is 0.1mg～10g.
 
 And then, as special requirement material, can enumerate: vitamins, nucleic acid, yeast extract, peptone, meat extract, Fructus Hordei Germinatus extract, Semen Maydis pulp, dry yeast, soybean meal, soybean oil, olive oil, Semen Maydis oil, Semen Lini oil etc., the one kind or two or more of them can be used.Its adding proportion is different according to the kind of special requirement material, but being commonly angled relative to culture medium 1L is 0.01mg～100g.
 
 The pH of culture medium is adjusted to such as pH2～12, preferred pH6～9.
 
 Cultivation can be cultivated by shaking or air agitation cultivated and carried out usual 1 day～20 days, preferably 2～9 days at a temperature of such as 10～70 DEG C, preferably 20～35 DEG C.
 
 Cultivate the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin in such a situa-tion.After cultivation, the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin and produces cryptoxanthin outside thalline in thalline in a large number.So, culture (culture fluid) can be added directly in poultry feed by the present invention as the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin.
 
 Or, concentrate by culture fluid obtained by above cultural method.Method for concentration can enumerate membrance concentration, centrifugal separation etc., but from the separation property of thalline, membrance concentration is more preferably.In order to improve the separation property of thalline, by the pH regulator of culture fluid to 2～6.Sulphuric acid is preferably used in pH regulator.Concentration rate is different according to states such as the pigment contents of culture fluid, is preferably such as about 1.5～5 times.
 
 Then, the removing of medium component is carried out.When centrifugation, add water in concentrated solution, remove medium component.When using membrance separation, carry out diafiltration, medium component is removed.Amount of water is different according to states such as the pigment contents of concentrated solution, is preferably such as about 1～5 times.
 
 And then, in order to make pulverulent product, above method the concentrated solution obtained is dried.As drying means, there is no particular restriction, can use known drying means such as such as spray drying, spray granulating and drying, drum dried, lyophilization fluid bed drying etc..As such, it is possible to manufacture the dry thalline containing cryptoxanthin pigment.Gained can be dried thalline add to poultry feed as the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin.Such as, in this dry thalline 1g of the antibacterial belonging to paracoccus, contain cryptoxanthin with the high-load of about 1mg～20mg (i.e., 1～20mg/g).So, this method is belonged to the dry thalline of the antibacterial of paracoccus by use, even if the addition in feedstuff is few, it is also possible to improve the zeaxanthin concentration the egg yolk of the egg that the poultry from nursing obtains.
 
 In this method, poultry is raised to be added with the poultry feed of the antibacterial that the dry thalline etc. containing cryptoxanthin pigment produces cryptoxanthin, and makes poultry breed, carry out taking egg, thus output cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg.In the way of cryptoxanthin in the antibacterial that can add more than 1mg, such as 1～50mg, preferably 2～20mg generation cryptoxanthin relative to poultry feed 100g, the antibacterial producing cryptoxanthin is added to poultry feed.Such as, by the normally used poultry feed of institute in the above-mentioned dry thalline containing cryptoxanthin pigment mixing to the home poultry raisings such as poultry.The dry biomass containing cryptoxanthin pigment in poultry feed is different according to the content of cryptoxanthin contained in this dry thalline, is preferably more than 0.05%, more preferably 0.1%～5% the most by weight.
 
 Or, the dry thalline containing cryptoxanthin pigment etc. produces the antibacterial of cryptoxanthin and can also be mixed in poultry feed and give poultry, or can also mix in advance together with vitamins etc. and carry out feeding to premix material.
 
 Fed the dry thalline that comprises containing cryptoxanthin pigment etc. produce cryptoxanthin antibacterial poultry feed poultry can output rich in the egg (i.e., cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg) of cryptoxanthin.According to this method, available such as egg yolk strengthens poultry egg containing the cryptoxanthin relative to the cryptoxanthin that egg yolk 100g is 1.5mg～10mg (preferably 3.5mg～10mg, particularly preferred 3.5mg～8mg).
 
 Cryptoxanthin described above strengthening poultry egg, by being absorbed by people, can improve the accumulation of cryptoxanthin in human blood.
 
 So, the invention still further relates to improve the method for zeaxanthin concentration in human blood, it includes making people absorb cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg.Improve zeaxanthin concentration in blood and think relevant to the disease prevention such as oculopathy such as senile degeneration of macula (AMD).For the cryptoxanthin of the present invention strengthening poultry egg used in the method, in order to effectively increase zeaxanthin concentration in human blood, preferably containing relative to egg yolk 100g in egg yolk is the cryptoxanthin of more than 3.5mg.It addition, within 1 day, absorb more than 1 by cryptoxanthin being strengthened poultry egg, zeaxanthin concentration in human blood can be effectively increased.Such as, by make people absorb cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg, can by zeaxanthin concentration in human blood with 0.28 μM/(mg/Day) more than efficiency improve to more than 0.3 μM.
 
 Moreover, it relates to the cryptoxanthin of zeaxanthin concentration strengthens the purposes of poultry egg in the cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg improving the purposes of zeaxanthin concentration in human blood and raising human blood.
 
 
 
 Embodiment
 
 Hereinafter, illustrate in greater detail the present invention by embodiment, but the scope of the technology of the present invention is not limited by these embodiments.
 
 Should illustrate, the carotenoids in embodiment is quantitatively to use high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to proceed as described below.
 
 Post is by Inertsil SIL-100A, and 5 μm (φ 4.6 × 250mm) (GL サ イ エ Application ス system) 2 connect use.Eluting is that the normal hexane/oxolane/methyl alcohol mixed liquor (40:20:1) as flowing phase by the 1.0mL per minute that circulates under the stationary temperature of near room temperature is carried out.In mensuration, sample is dissolved in oxolane, the most suitably dilutes with flowing, gained liquid 20 μ L is carried out as injection rate, the detection of post eluent under wavelength 470nm.It addition, as quantitative standard substance, employ EXTRASYNTHESE society cryptoxanthin (Cat.No.0307 S).The setting of the zeaxanthin concentration of titer is the absorbance (A) of the 453nm to titer and carries out under these conditions after the area percentage % (B) of maize mass peak when HPLC analyzes is measured, using following formula to carry out.
 
 The concentration (mg/L) of cryptoxanthin=A ÷ 2327 × B × 100.
 
 The manufacture of (embodiment 1) cryptoxanthin strengthening egg
 
 Carotin pair coccus E-396 strain (FERM will be produced
BP-4283) carry out sudden change process with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, select yellow～orange bacterium colony.Measure the carotenoid concentration in the culture fluid selecting strain, select the mutant that cryptoxanthin production capacity is high.
 
 Culture medium (sucrose 30g/L, Semen Maydis pulp 30g/L, potassium dihydrogen phosphate 1.5g/L, disodium hydrogen phosphate 12 hydrate 3.8g/L, calcium chloride 2 hydrate 5.0g/L, magnesium sulfate 7 hydrate 0.7g/L, iron sulfate 7 hydrate 0.3g/L, pH7.2) 2L of consisting of autoclave at 121 DEG C is sterilized 20 minutes, prepares seed flask culture medium.
 
 Then, culture medium (glucose 30g/L, Semen Maydis pulp 30g/L, ammonium sulfate 0.5g/L, potassium dihydrogen phosphate 2.25g/L, disodium hydrogen phosphate 12 hydrate 5.7g/L, calcium chloride 2 hydrate 0.1g/L, magnesium sulfate 7 hydrate 0.5g/L, iron sulfate 7 hydrate 5g/L, L-sodium 1 hydrate 6g/L, the alcohol system defoamer 0.5g/L) 40L of consisting of is added the fermentation tank of 100L capacity, prepares two these fermentation tanks.In this fermentation tank, in the way of reaching 0.1mg/L, add Bio, sterilize 30 minutes at 121 DEG C of autoclaves.
 
 Paracoccus cryptoxanthin high for the aforementioned cryptoxanthin production capacity selected is produced bacterial strain and is inoculated in above-mentioned seed flask culture medium, after carrying out rotating shaking cultivation 2 days with 100rpm at 27 DEG C, this culture fluid 2L is inoculated in each above-mentioned fermentation tank.Carry out 27 DEG C, the aerobic cultivation of ventilation 1vvm 120 hours.PH in cultivating controls pH continuously with 15% ammonia in the way of being maintained at 7.2.Glucose continuously feeds in unspent mode.It addition, minimum agitation revolution is set to 100rpm, and molten oxygen concentration is stayed to change agitation revolution in the way of being maintained at 3ppm in the culture fluid cultivating mid-term.Automatically alcohol system defoamer is added to suppress foaming by carrying out perception foaming with air bubble sensor.After gained culture fluid is sterilized, with whizzer collection bacterium, gained thalline is added appropriate water, is dried with spray dryer.
 
 The dry thalline containing cryptoxanthin pigment is obtained by culture fluid by said method.The zeaxanthin concentration in dry thalline containing cryptoxanthin pigment is 6.6mg/g.
 
 Then, the normal feedstuff (レ イ ヤ S7) of Chubu Shiryo KK adds the dry thalline containing cryptoxanthin pigment of gained, in the way of reaching the zeaxanthin concentration of regulation, prepare feedstuff.
 
 It it is 6 groups by 3 components of test feed laying hen, make the zeaxanthin concentration giving in the feedstuff of each group be: cryptoxanthin 0mg/100g (cryptoxanthin is without interpolation group) and cryptoxanthin 1mg/100g (1mg/100g interpolation group), cryptoxanthin 3mg/100g (3mg/100g interpolation group), cryptoxanthin 5mg/100g (5mg/100g interpolation group), cryptoxanthin 10mg/100g (10mg/100g interpolation group) and cryptoxanthin 20mg/100g (20mg/100g interpolation group), raise 2 weeks.Feeding coal is set to each 50g sooner or later.
 
 Egg is collected, by the maize quality in the egg yolk of high-performance liquid chromatogram determination gained egg (cryptoxanthin strengthening egg) from each test group.The results are shown in Fig. 1.
 
 The evaluation 1 of zeaxanthin concentration in the blood of the experimenter that (embodiment 2) intake of cryptoxanthin strengthening egg
 
 Make cryptoxanthin strengthening egg (zeaxanthin concentration 3mg/100g in egg yolk) manufactured in 5 (being equivalent to the component of the egg of 2 7.5mg/100g) embodiments 1 of experimenter's single picked-up some semi-ripe condition, zeaxanthin concentration in the blood after measuring 24 hours.As a control group, experimenter is made to absorb the supplement (deriving from spirulina, in 1 replenisher tablet, zeaxanthin concentration is 0.17mg/1 sheet) 15 containing cryptoxanthin, zeaxanthin concentration in the blood after similarly measuring 24 hours.Result is shown in table 1.
 
 [table 1]
 
 
 
 
 The cryptoxanthin blood level of cryptoxanthin strengthening egg picked-up group increases to about 2 times.On the other hand, the increase that cryptoxanthin blood level is about 1.4 times of supplement picked-up group, it is known that cryptoxanthin strengthening egg more effectively improves zeaxanthin concentration in blood.
 
 The evaluation 2 of zeaxanthin concentration in the blood of the experimenter that (embodiment 3) intake of cryptoxanthin strengthening egg
 
 It is 3 groups by every for experimenter 21 people 7 people one components, makes them each within 4 weeks, absorb common egg (zeaxanthin concentration 1mg/100g: common egg picked-up group in egg yolk), cryptoxanthin strengthening egg (zeaxanthin concentration 4.5mg/100g: cryptoxanthin strengthening egg picked-up group in egg yolk) and cryptoxanthin supplement (deriving from zeaxanthin concentration in spirulina, 1 replenisher tablet is 0.17mg/1 sheet: supplement picked-up group) continuously.Make common egg and the sooner or later respectively picked-up 1 of cryptoxanthin strengthening egg picked-up group (that is, 1 day 2) egg, make cryptoxanthin supplement picked-up group respectively picked-up 3 (that is, 1 day 6) supplement.Measure weekly zeaxanthin concentration in the blood of each experimenter.Its analysis result is shown in table 2 and Fig. 2.
 
 [table 2]
 
 
 
 
 Be can confirm that by the above results, compared with common egg picked-up group and supplement picked-up group, cryptoxanthin strengthening egg picked-up group significantly increases zeaxanthin concentration in blood.
 
 Deposit number
 
 FERM BP-4283
 
 FERM BP-4671
 
 That quotes in this specification whole issues publication, patent and patent application as with reference to being fully incorporated in this specification.
 
 Sequence table 
 
 
 <110>  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation 
 
 
 <120>cryptoxanthin strengthening poultry egg 
 
 
 <130>  PH-5065-PCT 
 
 
 <140>  PCT/JP2012/053787 
 <141>  2012-02-17 
 
 
 <150>  JP 2011-037619 
 <151>  2011-02-23 
 
 
 <160>  1     
 
 
 <170>PatentIn version 3 .4 
 
 
 <210>  1 
 <211>  1452 
 <212>  DNA 
 <213>carotin pair coccus (Paracoccus carotinifaciens) is produced 
 
 
 <220> 
 <221>  misc_feature 
 <222>  (1350)..(1350) 
 <223>n is a, c, g, or t 
 
 
 <400>  1 
 agtttgatcc tggctcagaa cgaacgctgg cggcaggctt aacacatgca agtcgagcga     60 
 
 
 gaccttcggg tctagcggcg gacgggtgag taacgcgtgg gaacgtgccc ttctctacgg    120 
 
 
 aatagccccg ggaaactggg agtaataccg tatacgccct ttgggggaaa gatttatcgg    180 
 
 
 agaaggatcg gcccgcgttg gattaggtag ttggtggggt aatggcccac caagccgacg    240 
 
 
 atccatagct ggtttgagag gatgatcagc cacactggga ctgagacacg gcccagactc    300 
 
 
 ctacgggagg cagcagtggg gaatcttaga caatgggggc aaccctgatc tagccatgcc    360 
 
 
 gcgtgagtga tgaaggcctt agggttgtaa agctctttca gctgggaaga taatgacggt    420 
 
 
 accagcagaa gaagccccgg ctaactccgt gccagcagcc gcggtaatac ggagggggct    480 
 
 
 agcgttgttc ggaattactg ggcgtaaagc gcacgtaggc ggactggaaa gtcagaggtg    540 
 
 
 aaatcccagg gctcaacctt ggaactgcct ttgaaactat cagtctggag ttcgagagag    600 
 
 
 gtgagtggaa ttccgagtgt agaggtgaaa ttcgtagata ttcggaggaa caccagtggc    660 
 
 
 gaaggcggct cactggctcg atactgacgc tgaggtgcga aagcgtgggg agcaaacagg    720 
 
 
 attagatacc ctggtagtcc acgccgtaaa cgatgaatgc cagacgtcgg caagcatgct    780 
 
 
 tgtcggtgtc acacctaacg gattaagcat tccgcctggg gagtacggtc gcaagattaa    840 
 
 
 aactcaaagg aattgacggg ggcccgcaca agcggtggag catgtggttt aattcgaagc    900 
 
 
 aacgcgcaga accttaccaa cccttgacat ggcaggaccg ctggagagat tcagctttct    960 
 
 
 cgtaagagac ctgcacacag gtgctgcatg gctgtcgtca gctcgtgtcg tgagatgttc   1020 
 
 
 ggttaagtcc ggcaacgagc gcaacccacg tccctagttg ccagcaattc agttgggaac   1080 
 
 
 tctatggaaa ctgccgatga taagtcggag gaaggtgtgg atgacgtcaa gtcctcatgg   1140 
 
 
 gccttacggg ttgggctaca cacgtgctac aatggtggtg acagtgggtt aatccccaaa   1200 
 
 
 agccatctca gttcggattg tcctctgcaa ctcgagggca tgaagttgga atcgctagta   1260 
 
 
 atcgcggaac agcatgccgc ggtgaatacg ttcccgggcc ttgtacacac cgcccgtcac   1320 
 
 
 accatgggag ttggttctac ccgacgacgn tgcgctaacc ttcggggggc aggcggccac   1380 
 
 
 ggtaggatca gcgactgggg tgaagtcgta acaaggtagc cgtaggggaa cctgcggctg   1440 
 
 
 gatcacctcc tt                                                       
1452 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
