
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lactobacteria-containing composition of packet for preventing and treating vaginopathy and application thereof 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to a kind of composition and application thereof for preventing and treating vaginopathy, the composition include salt,
Sugar and lactic acid bacteria are as active constituent. 
 
 
 Background technique 
 Vaginitis is a kind of illness especially occurred in vagina during pregnancy, causes vaginal fluid, inflammation
With irritation and vulva or pruritus of vagina.Three kinds of most common vagina infections and disease are also the most common reason of vaginitis.
These three common vagina infections include：Bacterial vaginosis BV, vaginal yeast infection and trichomoniasis. 
 Human vagina settles down various microorganisms, yeast and bacterium (germ), such as about more than 10 4 A/mL (vagina
Liquid) lactobacillus bacterium (Lactobacillus spp) (such as Lactobacillus crispatus (Lactobacillus crispatus) and
Lactobacillus Jensenii (Lactobacillus jensenii)), the weak acid environment within the scope of pH 4.5-5.1 is provided to prevent
Microorganism infection；The organ of human vagina or a highly-versatile, can effect of depth women and its neonatal health.
It has been reported that in the important pathogen of many of vagina habitat (vaginal niche), such as Neisseria gonorrhoeae
(Neiserria gonorrhea), Ureaplasma bacterium (Ureaplasma species), mycoplasma genitalium (Mycoplasma
Genitalium), streptococcus bacterium (Streptococcus species), Escherichia coli (Esherichia coli), trachoma
Chlamydia (Chlamydia trachomatis) and trichomonas vaginalis (Trichomonas vaginalis) etc.. 
 Particularly, bacterial vaginosis BV (BV, most universal and most harmful vaginopathy) makes the women with BV generate stench
Vaginal fluid or local irritation, and bacterial vaginosis BV is related with several more serious negative results, including premature labor,
The acquisition of pelvic inflammatory disease and HIV infection.Women with bacterial vaginosis BV (BV) state of an illness lose many lactobacillus bacterium (in addition to
Inertia lactobacillus (L.iners)) and obtain a variety of anaerobism and facultative bacteria.The leather of vaginal secretion from the women with BV is blue
Albert'stain Albert show lose Gram-positive bacillus and they by Gram-negative and Gram-variable coccus and bacillus generation
It replaces.The culture of vaginal secretion from the subject with BV typically generates Gardnerella vaginalis (Gardnerella
Vaginalis) and the mixture of other bacteriums, other bacteriums may include Peptostreptococcus
(Peptostreptococcus), Mobiluncus (Mobiluncus), Bacteroides (Bacterioides), general Bordetella
(Prevotella), Porphyromonas Pseudomonas (Porphyromonas), Mobiluncus and Mycoplasma bacterium (Mycoplasma
Species) (Sujatha srinivasan and David N.Fedricks, Review Article, The Human
Vaginal Bacterial Biota and Bacterial Vaginosis, Interdisciplinary
Perspectives on Infectious Diseases, Vol., 2008, article ID 750479, p1-3). 
 Lactic acid bacteria is common in mankind or animal enteron aisle, fermented food etc., is reported as can be used as the representativeness of probiotics
Bacterium, and by FDA (Food and Drug Administration) be recognized as safe bacterium (Orrhge, K. etc., 2000, Bifidobateria
And lactobacilli in human health, Drug Experimental Clinical Research., 26,
pp95-111).The lactic acid bacteria for being adhered to enterocyte and parasitism improves intestinal flora environment and provides for host animal
Various advantageous advantages, for example, intestinal flora stabilisation, by inhibiting the adherency of intestines harmful bacteria to reduce substance decomposition, You Haiji
Prevention, immune activation activity, anticancer activity, the cholesterol-lowering activity etc. of disease.It is reported that coming from various putrefactive microorganisms and cause of disease
The lactobacter growth inhibitory activity of microorganism is attributed to the metabolic characteristic of its metabolin release antimicrobial factors, the antimicrobial factors example
Such as organic acid, hydrogen peroxide, Roche rhzomorph (reuterin), diacetyl, acetaldehyde, bacteriocin (Fuller, K., 1989,
Probiotics in man and animals, J.Appl.Bacteriol., 66, pp365-378；Korean Patent Publication
No.10-2015-0075447A)。 
 Effective therapy for the treatment of vaginitis has been researched and developed so far, such as is taken orally and given broad-spectrum antibiotic (example
Such as metronidazole).However the therapy show anti-biotic resistance in many disadvantages, such as long term administration situation, general toxicity and
The destruction of normal flora in possible vagina causes complication, such as lactobacillus bacterium number amount is reduced, vagina pH is increased
With anaerobe proliferation etc.. 
 Therefore, so far, need to develop and show long-term treatment activity and safety and almost without adverse reaction
Novel therapeutic composition treat vaginopathy. 
 So far, the inventors discovered that, the combination comprising salt and sugar is shown effectively as the composition of active constituent
Antibacterial activity and antiproliferative activity (Korean Patent Registration No.10-1133723 B1/PCT/WO2011/049327 A1)；And
To effective therapeutic effect (Korean Patent Registration No.10-1470282 B1/ of vaginal relaxation syndrome or colpoxerosis disease
PCT/WO2015/050324 A1)。 
 However, without report or public affairs in how upper citation (the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference) in office
Salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria are opened for the therapeutic effect of vaginopathy. 
 In order to study salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria to the inhibiting effect of vaginopathy, the present inventor carried out with
Lower test：(1) the indirect inhibition of the growth of the bacterium for causing vaginopathy carried out by measurement pH and lactate level variation is lived
Property test (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 1)；(2) growth of the bacterium for causing vaginopathy carried out by the neurological susceptibility of measurement test sample
Direct inhibitory activity test (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 2)；(3) simple clinical trial, and by confirming that the combination is shown in testing
Out effective antibacterial activity and be finally completed the present invention. 
 Object of the present invention and other purposes will be become by detailed disclosures of the invention provided below
Obviously. 
 
 
 Summary of the invention 
 Technical problem 
 Therefore, it is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for treating or preventing the pharmaceutical composition of vaginopathy, described
Pharmaceutical composition includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria preparation in mammals treatment or
Prevent the purposes in the drug of vaginopathy. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of methods for treating or preventing vaginopathy in mammals, wherein institute
The method of stating includes that a effective amount of salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria and its pharmaceutically acceptable load are given to the mammal
Body. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for mitigating or preventing the healthy functions food of vaginopathy, the health
Functional food includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for mitigating or preventing the health food of vaginopathy, the health food
Comprising salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for mitigating or preventing the food additives of vaginopathy, the food additive
Adding agent includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for treating or preventing the topical compositions of vaginopathy, the part
Using composition includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for mitigating or preventing the detergent composition of vaginopathy, the washing
Agent composition includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 Solve the technical solution of technical problem 
 In an embodiment of the invention, the present invention provides a kind of for treating and preventing the medicine group of vaginopathy
Object is closed, described pharmaceutical composition includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 The present invention provides a kind of for treating and preventing the pharmaceutical composition of vaginopathy, and described pharmaceutical composition includes
Salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria are as active constituent and pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 
 In addition, the present invention provides salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria in preparation for treating or preventing in mammals
Purposes in the drug of vaginopathy. 
 In addition, the present invention provides a kind of methods for treating or preventing vaginopathy in mammals, wherein the method
Including giving a effective amount of salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria and its pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to the mammal. 
 Term " salt " as defined herein includes purified salt (refined salt), processing salt (processed salt)
(such as fused salt (melted salt)) or crude salt (such as sea salt, rock salt) etc.；It is preferred that purified salt (such as sodium chloride) or molten
Salt (such as bamboo salt)；More preferably by by crude salt 200 DEG C -2000 DEG C, preferably 800 DEG C -1200 DEG C at a temperature of melt 2
Hour to 7 days, preferably 12 hours to 48 hours periods and the fused salt prepared. 
 Term " sugar " as defined herein includes the saccharide compound for being as is generally known in the art useful prebiotics, preferably singly
Sugar, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, polysaccharide etc.；It more preferably include pentose (such as xylose, arabinose etc.), hexose (such as glucose, sweet dew
Sugar, fructose, galactolipin etc.) monosaccharide；Disaccharides, such as lactulose, lactitol, sucrose, lactose, maltose, trehalose etc.；It is few
Sugar, such as fructooligosaccharide, gossypose, stachyose, maltodextrin etc.；Polysaccharide, such as amylose, cellulose, pectin etc.；It is more excellent
Select the carbohydrate in glucose, fructose, galactolipin, lactulose, lactitol, sucrose, lactose or fructooligosaccharide. 
 Term " lactic acid bacteria " as defined herein includes any commonly known or obtainable as prebiotic in this field
The lactic acid bacteria of bacterium, it is preferable that the lactic acid bacteria is from such as International Depository Authority (International depository
Authority, IDA) international endorsement preservation mechanism the obtainable lactic acid bacteria as probiotics of any routine, such as South Korea
Korean typical culture preservation center (Korean Collection for Type Cultures, KCTC), Korean Culture
In Culture Center (Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms, KCCM) or Korean agriculture culture collection
The heart (Korean Agricultural Culture Collection, KACC)；The agricultural research Culture Collection Center in the U.S.
In (Agricultural Research Service Culture Collection, NRRL) or American Type Tissue Culture
The heart (American Type Culture Collection, ATCC), Provasoli-Guillard marine algae and microorganism
Group's national center (Provasoli-Guillard National Center for Marine Algae and
Microbiota, NCMA)；The algae of Britain and protozoan culture collection (Culture Collection of
Algae and protozoa, CCAP), European Cell Culture Collection (European Collection of Cell
Cultures, ECACC), international fungal studies institute (International Mycological Institute, IMI), country
Type Tissue Collection (National Collection of Type Culture, NCTC), national yeast culture are protected
Hiding center (National Collection of Yeast Cultures, NCYC), National Industrial, food and marine bacteria protect
Hiding center (National Colections of Industria, Food and marine Bacteria, NCIMB) or country
Biologic criteria and comparative study institute (National Institute for Biological Standards and
Controls, NIBSC)；National culture of microorganism collection (the Collection Nationale De of France
Cultures de Micro-organisms, CNCM)；The Leibniz research institute DSMZ- Germany microorganism of Germany and cell training
Support object collection (Lebniz-Institu DSMZ-Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
Zellkulturen GmbH, DSMZ)；International Patent Organism depositary institution (the International patent of Japan
Organism Depository, IPOD), National Technical and evaluation studies institute-patent Organism Depositary (National
Institute of Technology and Evaluation, Patent Microorganism Depository, NPMD)；
The Chinese culture collection (China Center for Culture Collection, CCTCC) of China, China are common
Microbiological Culture Collection administrative center (China General Microbiological Culture Collection
Center, CGMCC) etc.；Specifically, the lactic acid bacteria is any lactic acid bacteria belonged to as in subordinate：Lactobacillus bacterium
(Lactobacillus spp.), Bifidobacterium bacterium (Bifidobacterium spp.), bacillus bacterium (Bacillus
Spp.), streptococcus bacterium (Streptococcus spp.), enterococcus spp bacterium (Enterococcus spp.), saccharomyces bacterium
(Saccharomyces spp.), Leuconostoc bacterium (Leuconostoc spp.) etc.；More specifically, the lactic acid bacteria is choosing
From any lactic acid bacteria in the group as composed by following lactic acid bacteria：Lactobacillus bacterium, such as lactobacillus plantarum
(lactobacillus plantarum), Lactobacillus pentosus (lactobacillus pentosus), Lactobacillus casei
(lactobacillus casei), l. casei ssp. paracasei (lactobacillus casei
Ssp.paracasei), Lactobacillus rhamnosus (lactobacillus rhamnosus), lactobacillus acidophilus (lactobacillus
Acidophilus), Lactobacillus delbrueckii (lactobacillus delbrueckii), lactobacillus delbruockii subspecies bulgaricus
(lactobacillus delbrueckii, ssp.bulgaricus), Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp (lactobacillus
Delbrueckii, ssp.delbrueckii), lactobacillus fermenti (lactobacillus fermentum), Lactobacillus gasseri
(lactobacillus gasseri), lactobacillus reuteri (lactobacillus reuteri), Lactobacillus brevis
(lactobacillus brevis), lactobacillus cellobiosas (lactobacillus cellobiosus), Lactobacillus crispatus
(lactobacillus crispatusi), Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (lactobacillus GG), Yue Shi lactobacillus
(lactobacillus johnsonii), lactobacillus lactis (lactobacillus lactis), Lactobacillus salivarius
(lactobacillus salivarius) etc.；Bifidobacterium bacterium, such as bifidobacterium longum (Bifidobacterium
Longum), bifidobacterium bifidum (Bifidobacterium bifidum), bifidobacterium breve (Bifidobacterium
Breve), bifidobacterium animalis acid subspecies (Bifidobacterium animalis ssp, lactis), bifidobacterium adolescentis
(Bifidobacterium adolescentis), bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum (Bifidobacterium
Pseudocatenulatum), bifidobacterium catenulatum (Bifidobacterium catenulatum), bifidobacterium infantis
(Bifidobacterium infantis), bifidobacterium thermophilum (Bifidobacterium thermophilum) etc.；Gemma
Bacillus bacterium, such as toyoi Bacillus cercus (Bacillus cereus toyoi), Bacillus cercus (Bacillus
Cereus) etc.；Streptococcus bacterium, such as streptococcus thermophilus (Streptococcus thermophiles), streptococcus cremoris
(Streptococcus cremoris), baby streptococcus (Streptococcus infantarius), osculant streptococcus
(Streptococcus intermedius), streptococcus lactis (Streptococcus lactis), saliva chain coccus thermophilous Asia
Kind (Streptococcus salivarius subsp.Thermophiles) etc.；Enterococcus spp bacterium, such as enterococcus faecalis
(Enterococcus faecalis), enterococcus faecium (Enterococcus faecium) etc.；Saccharomyces bacterium, such as wine brewing ferment
Female (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), Bradley yeast (Saccharomyces boulardii) etc.；Leuconostoc
Bacterium, such as lemon leukonid (Leuconostoc citreum), Leuconostoc mesenteroides (Leuconostoc
Mesenteroides) etc.；More specifically, lactobacillus bacterium, for example, it is lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus pentosus, Lactobacillus casei, dry
Lactobacillus paracasei pair cheese subspecies, Lactobacillus rhamnosus or lactobacillus acidophilus；Bifidobacterium bacterium, for example, it is bifidobacterium longum, not tally
Bifidobacterium or bifidobacterium breve；Bacillus bacterium, such as toyoi Bacillus cercus or Bacillus cercus；Streptococcus
Belong to bacterium, such as streptococcus thermophilus, streptococcus cremoris, baby streptococcus, osculant streptococcus or streptococcus lactis. 
 Term " salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria " as defined herein includes the salt, sugar and cream with following mixed proportion
The combination of sour bacterium：1:(100-0.01):(100-0.01) parts by weight (w/w), preferably 1:(50-0.5):(50-0.5) parts by weight
(w/w), more preferable 1:(30-0.3):(30-0.3) parts by weight (w/w), more preferred 1:(10-0.1):(10-0.1) parts by weight
(w/w), most preferably 1:(5-1):(5-1) parts by weight (w/w). 
 Composition of the invention can further include other antibiotic, dyestuff and fragrance etc., the gross weight based on composition
Amount, the amount of the other antibiotic, dyestuff and fragrance etc. are the about 0.1wt%-20wt% of above-mentioned composition. 
 Hereinafter the present invention will be described in detail. 
 It can be prepared in detail by following programs containing salt, sugar and the composition of the invention of the combination of lactic acid bacteria. 
 For example, cleaning combination of the invention can be prepared in the following manner：In step 1, purified salt, processing salt are prepared
(such as fused salt) or crude salt (such as sea salt, rock salt), preferably purified salt or processing salt, the purified salt or processing salt by
It is melted at a temperature of 200 DEG C -2000 DEG C, preferably 800 DEG C -1200 DEG C crude salt 2 hours to 7 days, preferably 12 hours to 48 small
When period prepared with obtaining fused salt；By the fused salt and sugar compounds (such as monosaccharide, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, polysaccharide etc.) and cream
Sour bacterium (belong to lactobacillus bacterium, Bifidobacterium bacterium, bacillus bacterium, streptococcus bacterium, enterococcus spp bacterium, saccharomyces bacterium,
Leuconostoc bacterium etc.) with 1:(100-0.01):(100-0.01) parts by weight (w/w), preferably 1:(50-0.5):(50-0.5) weight
Measure part (w/w), more preferable 1:(30-0.3):(30-0.3) parts by weight (w/w), more preferred 1:(10-0.1):(10-0.1) weight
Measure part (w/w), most preferably 1:(5-1):The mixed proportion of (5-1) parts by weight (w/w) is mixed, to obtain group of the invention
It closes；And the combination is dissolved in as needed with suitable other additive (such as other antibiotic, dyestuff, fragrance
Deng) suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient, nutrition on (sitologically) acceptable additive or
The acceptable carrier (such as distilled water, buffer or isotonic solution) in part, to obtain composition of the invention. 
 Therefore, in yet another embodiment of the present invention, the present invention provides be used to prepare cleaning combination of the invention
Method, this approach includes the following steps：In step 1, prepare purified salt, processing salt (such as fused salt) or crude salt (such as sea salt,
Rock salt etc.), preferably purified salt or processing salt, the purified salt or processing salt by 200 DEG C -2000 DEG C, preferably 800 DEG C -
Crude salt 2 hours to 7 days is melted at a temperature of 1200 DEG C, preferably 12 hours to 48 hours periods made to obtain fused salt
It is standby；In step 2, the salt and sugar compounds (such as monosaccharide, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, polysaccharide etc.) and lactic acid bacteria (are belonged into lactobacillus
Bacterium, Bifidobacterium bacterium, bacillus bacterium, streptococcus bacterium, enterococcus spp bacterium, saccharomyces bacterium, Leuconostoc bacterium etc.) with
1:(100-0.01):(100-0.01) parts by weight (w/w), preferably 1:(50-0.5):(50-0.5) parts by weight (w/w), more preferably
1:(30-0.3):(30-0.3) parts by weight (w/w), more preferred 1:(10-0.1):(10-0.1) parts by weight (w/w), most preferably
1:(5-1):The mixed proportion of (5-1) parts by weight (w/w) is mixed, to obtain combination of the invention；It, will and in step 3
The combination is dissolved in appropriate with suitable other additive (such as other antibiotic, dyestuff, fragrance etc.) as needed
Distilled water, buffer or isotonic solution, to obtain cleaning combination of the invention. 
 Term " vaginopathy " as defined herein includes being selected from bacterial vaginosis BV, colpomycosis or trichomonas vagina
Vaginopathy in inflammation, the preferably vaginopathy caused by following：Gardnerella vaginalis, bacteroides fragilis (Bacterioid
Fragilis), trichomonas vaginalis, Candida albicans (Candida albicans), Streptococcusagalactiae (Streptococcus
Agalactiae), staphylococcus aureus (Streptococcus aureus), aurococcus
(Staphylococcus aureus), Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Escherichia coli, enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacter
Cloacae), pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pseudomonas aeruginosa) or salmonella typhimurium (Salmonella
Typhimurium) etc.. 
 Composition of the invention can further include other antibiotic, dyestuff and fragrance etc., the gross weight based on composition
Amount, the amount of the other antibiotic, dyestuff and fragrance etc. are the about 0.1wt%-20wt% of above-mentioned composition. 
 Be proved the composition of the invention of the combination comprising the salt, sugar and the lactic acid bacteria that are prepared by the above method via
Kinds of experiments shows effective antibacterial activity, such as：(1) cause vagina by what measurement pH and lactate level variation carried out
The indirect inhibitory activity of the growth of the bacterium of disease tests (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 1)；(2) by measure test sample neurological susceptibility into
The direct inhibitory activity of the growth of the capable bacterium for causing vaginopathy tests (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 2)；(3) simple clinical trial, and
It finally confirmed that the combination shows effective antibacterial activity in testing. 
 Therefore, the composition for treating or preventing vaginopathy of the invention includes salt, the sugar prepared by the above method
With the combination and pharmaceutically acceptable carrier of lactic acid bacteria. 
 In addition, the present invention provides the salt prepared by the above method, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria in preparation for feeding
The purposes in the drug of vaginopathy is treated or prevented in newborn animal. 
 In addition, the present invention provides a kind of methods for treating or preventing vaginopathy in mammals, wherein this method packet
It includes and gives a effective amount of salt, sugar and combination of lactic acid bacteria prepared by the above method to the mammal and its pharmaceutically may be used
The carrier of receiving. 
 Term " prevention " as defined herein refers to the suppression to such disease in the mammal for being easy to lock into disease
System；Term as used herein " treatment " refers to：(a) disease or ongoing disease, (b) is inhibited to mitigate disease or illness or (c) disappear
Except disease or illness. 
 Term " pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient " as defined herein includes for forming the nonactive of drug
Ingredient, medicated premix.They include dyestuff, fragrance, adhesive, softening agent (emollients), filler, lubricant, prevent
Rotten agent and many other types.Common excipient includes cornstarch, lactose, talcum, magnesium stearate, sucrose, gelatin, hard
Resin acid calcium, silica, shellac and glaze (glaze) are well known in the art (referring to Food and Drug Administration master
Page or drug information are online) or first document (such as Rowe, Raymond C etc., Handbook of Pharmaceutical
Excipients, Pharmaceutical Press, the 7th edition, 2012). 
 Total weight based on composition, of the invention may include 0.1wt%- for treating and preventing the composition of vaginopathy
The said combination of 99wt%, preferably 0.1wt%-50wt%. 
 Composition according to the present invention can be used as comprising pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, adjuvant or diluent (such as lactose,
Dextrose, sucrose, D-sorbite, mannitol, xylitol, antierythrite, maltitol, starch, gum arabic, alginic acid
Salt/ester, gelatin, calcium phosphate, calcium silicates, cellulose, methylcellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, water, methylhydroxybenzoate
Ester, propylhydroxy benzoate, talcum, magnesium stearate and mineral oil) pharmaceutical composition provide.Preparation can be in addition containing filling
Agent, anti-agglutinant (anti-agglutinating agents), lubricant, moisturizer, flavoring agent, emulsifier, preservative etc..
Composition of the invention can be prepared by using any program well known in the art, to be given by the composition
Quick release, sustained release or the sustained release of active constituent are provided after patient. 
 For example, composition of the invention can be dissolved in oil, propylene glycol or be generally employed to produce in other solvents of injection.
The suitable example of carrier includes physiological saline, polyethylene glycol, ethyl alcohol, vegetable oil, isopropyl myristate etc., but not limited to this.
For administering locally to, extract of the invention can be formulated as to the form of ointment and creme. 
 Pharmaceutical preparation containing the present composition can be prepared as to any form, for example, peroral dosage form (powder, tablet,
Capsule, soft capsule, aqueous pharmaceutical, syrup, elixir, pill, powder, wafer (sachet), granule) or part system
Product (creme, ointment, lotion, gelling agent, pomade (balm), patch, paste, spray solution agent, aerosol etc.) can be infused
Penetrate product (solution, suspension, emulsion). 
 The present composition in drug dosage form can be used in the form of their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, and
And it also can be used alone or be used in combination and be applied in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds with appropriate. 
 The desired amount that the present invention combines according to the situation and weight of subject, severity, medicament forms, give approach
Change with the period is given, and can be selected by those skilled in the art.However, usually being pushed away to obtain desired effects
It recommends and gives the present invention according to weight/day meter with the amount of 0.0001mg/kg-1000mg/kg, preferably 0.001mg/kg-100mg/kg
Combination.The dosage can be given in a single dose daily or give in several times. 
 Pharmaceutical composition of the invention can be given to animal subject via number of ways, such as mammal is (rat, small
Mouse, domestic animal or people).All modes of giving are taken into account, such as can be carried out taking orally and be given, rectal administration, or pass through
Intravenous injection, intramuscular injection, subcutaneous injection, intracutaneous injection, intrathecal injection, epidural injection or intraventricular injection are given. 
 Composition of the invention can also be used as in the preparation of various healthy functions food and health food main component or
Additive and auxiliary agent. 
 Therefore, it is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for preventing or mitigating the healthy functions food of vaginopathy, institute
Stating healthy functions food includes salt, sugar and lactic acid bacteria. 
 Term " healthy functions food " as defined herein, which refers to, to be had the function of enhancing (such as physical function or physiology function
Can) functional food, which prevents or improves people or lactation by the way that composition of the invention to be added in general food
Target disease in animal. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for preventing or mitigating the health food of vaginopathy, the health food
Include acceptable additive in salt, sugar and lactic acid bacteria and nutrition. 
 Term " health food " as defined herein refers to containing combined food of the invention, wherein combination of the invention
Spy is not shown as the forms such as a small amount of additive form or the powder as total amount, granule, capsule, pill, tablet
Fixed desired effect but show total desired effect. 
 Term " acceptable additive in nutrition " as defined herein includes that its desired use causes or can be reasonable
It is expected that directly or indirectly cause the substance to become the component of any food or influence the arbitrary substance of the characteristic of any food,
And three groups can be divided into according to its source, i.e.,：(1) chemical synthesis additive, such as ketone, glycine, potassium citrate, niacin etc.；
(2) natural additive, such as persimmon dyestuff, licorice, avicel cellulose, gua dum etc.；(3) mixed addition
Agent (the mixed additive therewith), for example, L-sodium, preservative, tar dyestuff etc. or according to its
Function in food and point various types, such as it is thickening agent, curing agent, bleaching agent, chelating agent (sequestrant), wet
Agent, anticaking agent, clarifying agent, curing agent, emulsifier, stabilizer, thickener, alkali and acid, foaming agent, nutrient, colorant, tune
Taste agent, sweetener, preservative, antioxidant etc. are well known (referring to the online homepage of GSFA in this field or existing literature
In " Codex General Standard for Food Additives " (GSFA, Codex STAN 192-1995)). 
 If substance is added in food for a specific purpose, which to be known as directly adding in the food
Agent；And indirect food additive be then the packaging due to food, storage or it is other processing and with trace become food a part
Additive. 
 Term " health food or healthy functions food " disclosed herein can be included in food, healthy beverage, diet
In replenishers etc., and the dosage form of pharmaceutically form of medication can be configured to, for example, powder, granule, tablet, suspension, emulsion,
Syrup, chewable tablet, capsule, beverage etc.；Or food form, such as bread, rice cake (rice cake), dry fruit, candy,
Chocolate, chewing gum, ice cream, milk (such as low fat milk, lactose-hydrolysed milk, Goat Milk, processing milk), dairy products (such as ferment
Cream, butter, concentrated milk, cream, butter oil (butter oil), natural cheeses, processed cheese, milk powder, whey etc.), manufactured meat
Product (such as hamburger, ham, sausage, Baconic etc.), processing egg products, fish product (such as fish cake etc.), noodle product (example
Such as instant noodles, dried noodles, wet noodles, fried noodle, non-fried noodles, gelatinization (gelatinized) dried noodles, ripe noodles, cold
Freeze noodles, pasta etc.), tea product (such as tea bag, leach tea (leached tea) etc.), health drink (such as fruit drink
Product, vegetable drink, carbonated soft drinks, soya-bean milk drink, lactic acid drink bland etc.), seasoned food it is (such as soy sauce, beans sauce, red
Thick chilli sauce, fermented soya bean (chunjang) (a kind of fermented soybean prod coloured by caramel), clear Qu sauce (cheonggukjang)
(passing through the natural fermented soybean of bacillus subtilis (B.subtillis)), mixing sauce, vinegar, sauce, catsup, curry, condiment
Deng), margarine, shortening, Pizza etc., with for preventing or improving target disease, but be not intended to be only limitted to this herein. 
 In addition, said combination can be added in food or beverage to be used to prevent and improve target conditions.For function
For health food composition, in the food or beverage as functional health food or health food, the amount of said combination is logical
The about 0.01w/w%-100w/w% of Chang Kewei food total weight.Particularly, although combination of the invention functional health food,
Preferred amounts in health food or food of special nutrients can change according to the expected purpose of every kind of food, it is usually preferable to will
It is used as additive with following amount：Based on the food compositions of 100% ratio, the amount that the present invention combines is in food (example
Such as noodles) in be about 0.01%-5%, in health food be 40%-100%. 
 If healthy beverage composition of the invention using shown ratio include said combination as required component, to other
Liquid component is not particularly limited, wherein as conventional beverage, other components can be various deodorants or natural carbon water
Compound etc..The example of above-mentioned natural carbohydrate is：Monosaccharide, such as glucose, fructose etc.；Disaccharides, such as maltose, sugarcane
Sugar etc.；Conventional sugar, such as dextrin, cyclodextrin；And sugar alcohol, such as xylitol and antierythrite etc..As except mentioned component with
Outer other deodorants, it may be advantageous to using natural deodorant (such as taumatin, qualities of stevia extract (such as
Levaudioside A, glycyrrhizin etc.)) and synthesis deodorant (such as saccharin, Aspartame etc.).In the 100mL present invention
In the ratio of beverage composition for treating dental erosion, the amount of above-mentioned natural carbohydrate generally ranges from about 1g-20g, preferably 5g-12g. 
 Other components in addition to above-mentioned composition are various nutrients, vitamin, minerals or electrolyte, synthesis seasoning
Agent, colorant and modifying agent (when cheese, chocolate), pectic acid and its salt, alginic acid and its salt, organic acid, guarantor
Shield property colloidal adhesive, pH controlling agent, stabilizer, preservative, glycerol, alcohol, carburization agent used in soda etc..Except above-mentioned
Other components except component can be the fruit juice for being used to prepare fruit juice, fruit drink and vegetable beverage, wherein described group
Dividing may be used alone or in combination use.The ratio of component is not critically important, but the present composition relative to every 100w/w%,
It generally ranges from about 0w/w%-20w/w%.The example for adding food wherein comprising said extracted object or compound is each
Kind food, beverage, chewing gum, vitamin complex, health improve food etc.. 
 The no Side effect of combination of the invention, therefore they can be used safely. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for treating or preventing the topical compositions of vaginopathy, the part
Using composition includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 Topical compositions of the invention can be in addition containing conventional carrier, adjuvant or diluent according to application method.It is preferred that
According to usage and methods for using them using the carrier as suitable substance migration, but be not restricted to that this.Suitable diluent column
In the penman text of Remington ' s Pharmaceutical Science (Mack Publishing co, Easton PA)
In. 
 Hereinafter, following preparation method and excipient are exemplary only, do not limit the invention in any way. 
 Composition according to the present invention can be used as comprising pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, adjuvant or diluent (such as lactose,
Dextrose, sucrose, D-sorbite, mannitol, xylitol, antierythrite, maltitol, starch, gum arabic, alginic acid
Salt/ester, gelatin, calcium phosphate, calcium silicates, cellulose, methylcellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, water, methylhydroxybenzoate
Ester, propylhydroxy benzoate, talcum, magnesium stearate and mineral oil) topical compositions of the present invention provide.In addition preparation can be
Contain filler, anti-agglutinant, lubricant, moisturizer, flavoring agent, emulsifier, preservative etc..It can be by using ripe in this field
Any program known prepares composition of the invention, to provide active constituent after giving the composition to patient
Quick release, sustained release or sustained release. 
 For example, it is normal topical compositions of the invention can be dissolved in distilled water, pH buffer, oil, propylene glycol or this field
Other solvents.The suitable example of carrier includes physiological saline, polyethylene glycol, ethyl alcohol, vegetable oil, isopropyl myristate
Deng, but not limited to this.For administering locally to, the compound of the present invention can be formulated as to the form of ointment and creme. 
 Dissolution aids, emulsifier, pH controlling agent etc. can be added, any form is made in composition of the invention, such as：Office
Portion's product, such as aqueous solution, nonaqueous solvents, suspension, emulsion, freeze-dried products, suppository product, cleaning solution, gelling agent, colloid
Body (jelly), foaming agent, creme, ointment, lotion, pomade, patch, paste, spray solution agent, aerosol etc.；Or insertion
Product, such as vaginal tablet, vaginal cream, vaginal ointments, dressing solution (dressing solution), spray product, yin
Road capsule, vaginal pellicles, vaginal sponge agent (vaginal sponge)；For amenities (such as tapon, health
Towel, diaper, underpants etc.) smearing product (spreading preparation) or spray product, preferred vaginal tablet composition
Or cleaning liquid composition. 
 Above-mentioned nonaqueous solvents and suspension may include propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, vegetable oil (such as olive oil), ethyl oleate
Deng. 
 Above-mentioned suppository product may include witepsol, polyethylene glycol (macrogol), Tween 61, kakao butter, laurel
Acid, glycerin gelatine (glycerol gelatin) etc.. 
 Therefore, the present invention provides a kind of for treating or preventing the cleaning solution liquid composite or vaginal tablet of vaginopathy
Composition, the cleaning solution liquid composite or vaginal tablet composition are comprising salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria and pharmaceutically
Acceptable carrier. 
 Topical compositions of the present invention in drug dosage form can be in the form of their pharmaceutically acceptable salts
It uses, and also can be used alone or be used in combination and (such as this field is ripe with other pharmaceutically active compounds with appropriate
The antimicrobial compound or extract from plant, animal or mineral known) it is applied in combination. 
 The desired amount that the present invention combines according to the situation and weight of subject, severity, medicament forms, give approach
Change with the period is given, and can be selected by those skilled in the art.However, usually being pushed away to obtain desired effects
Recommend according to weight/day meter given with the amount of 0.001mg/kg-1000mg/kg, preferably 0.01mg/kg-100mg/kg it is of the invention
Combination.The dosage can be given in a single dose daily or give in several times.For composition, the total weight based on composition, the present invention
Combination should be with 0.01wt%-99.99wt%, preferably 0.1wt%-99wt%, more preferable 1wt%-20wt%, most preferably
The amount of 5wt%-10wt% exists. 
 Composition of the invention can be given to animal subject, such as mammal (rat, mouse, family via number of ways
Poultry or people).All modes of giving are taken into account, for example, can carry out outside give, administer locally to, it is oral give, rectum
It gives, or passes through intravenous injection, intramuscular injection, subcutaneous injection, intracutaneous injection, intrathecal injection, epidural injection or brain
Erebro ventricular injection is given, preferably external to give or administer locally to. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a kind of for mitigating or preventing the detergent composition of vaginopathy, the washing
Agent composition includes salt, sugar and the combination of lactic acid bacteria as active constituent. 
 Any traditional cleaning ingredient is used as a part of the present composition.The level provided is weight percent
And refer to total composition (not including water-solubility membrane in the case where the embodiment of encapsulation compositions).Detergent composition can
It to there is builder (built) or without builder (unbuilt), and include one or more detergent active ingredients, the activity
Component can be selected from bleaching agent, bleach-activating, bleaching catalyst, surfactant, alkali source, enzyme, polymeric dispersant, anticorrosive
Agent (such as sodium metasilicate) and care agent.Highly preferred detergent component includes builder (builder) compound, alkali source, resists
Redeposited agent, sulfonated polymer, enzyme and additional bleaching agent. 
 Dissolution aids, emulsifier, pH controlling agent etc. can be added, any form is made in detergent composition of the invention,
Such as：Part product, such as aqueous solution, nonaqueous solvents, suspension, emulsion, freeze-dried products, suppository product, cleaning solution, gel
Agent, gel, foaming agent, creme, ointment, lotion, pomade, patch, paste, spray solution agent, aerosol etc.；Or insertion
Product, for example, vaginal tablet, vaginal cream, vaginal ointments, dressing solution, spray product, vaginal capsule agent, vaginal pellicles,
Vaginal sponge agent；For the smearing product or spray product of amenities (such as tapon, sanitary napkin, diaper, underpants etc.),
It is preferred that vaginal tablet composition or cleaning liquid composition. 
 Builder suitable for this paper includes：Form the builder (sequestering builder) of water-soluble hardness ions complex compound, example
As citrate and polyphosphate (such as sodium tripolyphosphate, six hydration sodium tripolyphosphates, potassium tripolyphosphate, sodium tripolyphosphate and
The salt-mixture of potassium tripolyphosphate)；And the builder (precipitating builder) of hard sediment is formed, such as carbonate (such as carbonic acid
Sodium). 
 The product of unit dosage form includes tablet, capsule, wafer, pouch (pouches) etc.. 
 It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention, it can
Composition of the invention, purposes and product are carry out various modifications and changed. 
 Beneficial effect 
 As described herein, comprising the combined present composition of the salt, sugar and the lactic acid bacteria that are prepared by the above method
Effective antibacterial activity is shown via kinds of experiments, such as：(1) caused by what measurement pH and lactate level variation carried out
The indirect inhibitory activity of the growth of the bacterium of vaginopathy tests (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 1)；(2) pass through the neurological susceptibility of measurement test sample
And the direct inhibitory activity of the growth of the bacterium for causing vaginopathy carried out tests (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 2)；(3) simple clinical survey
Examination, and finally confirmed that the combination shows effective antibacterial activity in testing.Therefore, combination of the invention can be with drug
Composition, healthy functions food, food additives, topical compositions and detergent composition form for mitigating, treating
Or prevention vaginopathy. 
 
 
 Specific embodiment 
 It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention, it can
Composition of the invention, purposes and product are carry out various modifications and be changed. 
 The present invention is more specifically explained by following embodiment.It should be understood, however, that the present invention is not in any way
It is limited to these embodiments. 
 
 
 Embodiment 
 It is intended to further illustrate the present invention below with reference to embodiment, embodiment and EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE, and is not limited its scope. 
 
 
 The combined preparation of the invention of embodiment 1. 
 The preparation of 1-1. salt 
 1-1-1. the preparation of fused salt 
 By using heater (MS-E104, TOPS Co.Ltd.) by 900mg crude salt at 850 DEG C -1000 DEG C
(Shinan salt coop, 88-6, Dongniseonchakjang-gil, Sangtaedong-ri, Sinui-myeon,
Sinan-gun, Jeollanam-do, South Korea, 58857) melt 24 hours to obtain 400mg fused salt (hereinafter represented as " MS "). 
 1-1-2. the preparation of purified salt 
 400mg purified salt (NaCl, F.W.58.44) (hereinafter represented as " RS ") is purchased from company (SPPO-91701, Duksan
Pure Chemicals, Co., Ltd, 53, Siwon-ro, 133beon-gil, Danwon-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-
Do, South Korea). 
 1-1-3. the preparation of crude salt 
 400mg crude salt (mineral salt) (hereinafter represented as " US ") purchased from company (Shinan salt coop, 88-6,
Dongniseonchakjang-gil, Sangtaedong-ri, Sinui-myeon, Sinan-gun, Jeollanam-do, Korea Spro
State, 58857). 
 The preparation of 1-2. sugar 
 1-2-1. the preparation of glucose 
 800mg glucose (D (+)-glucose) (hereinafter represented as " GL ") purchased from company (Cat.No.jb01,
J.T.Baker Chemical Company)。 
 1-2-2. the preparation of fructooligosaccharide 
 800mg fructooligosaccharide (being originated from witloof) (hereinafter represented as " FO ") is purchased from company (Cat.No.F8052050g, Sigma-
Aldrich Co.LLC)。 
 1-2-3. the preparation of lactulose 
 800mg lactulose (hereinafter represented as " LS ") is purchased from company (Cat.No., 126-03732, Wako Pure
Chemical Industries)。 
 1-2-4. the preparation of fructose 
 800mg fructose (hereinafter represented as " FS ") is purchased from company (Cat.No., 64505-0410, Junsei Chemical
Co.Ltd)。 
 1-2-5. the preparation of lactitol 
 800mg lactitol (hereinafter represented as " LT ") is purchased from company (Cat.No., sc488686, Santa Cruz
Biotechnology,Inc)。 
 The preparation and culture of 1-3. lactic acid bacteria 
 1-3-1. the preparation of lactic acid bacteria 
 Listed in table 1 various lactic acid bacterias distribution (apportioned) from KCTC (korean typical culture preservation center,
South Korea) and in following experiment. 
 [table 1] 
 Lactic acid bacteria 
 
 
 
 1-3-2. the culture of bacterium 
 (1) following bacterium has been used in experiment：Amphimicrobian and microaerophilic bacteria, i.e. lactobacillus acidophilus (KCTC
No.3164), streptococcus bacterium (KCTC No.5644), long subspecies of bifidobacterium longum (KCTC No.3128) etc.；And it is aerobic thin
Bacterium, i.e. Bacillus cercus (KCTC No.13123) etc.. 
 (2) bacterium for causing vaginopathy, i.e. bacteroides fragilis are also used other than above-mentioned lactic acid bacteria, in experiment
(KCTC No.5013) and Gardnerella vaginalis (KCTC No.5097). 
 (3) bacterium (i.e. bacteroides fragilis (KCTC No.5013) and the Gardnerella vaginalis (KCTC of vaginopathy will be caused
No.5097 Casmans culture medium (12g tryptone, 5g meat peptone, the 5g chlorination for being supplemented with 5% Sheep Blood)) are inoculated into
Sodium, 3g yeast extract, 3g beef extract, 1g starch casein, 0.5g D-Glucose, 0.05g niacinamide, 0.005g pairs
Aminobenzoic acid, 1L distilled water, pH 7.3) in, and by using GasPak TM EZ Pouch system (BD, Cat.No.26083,
USA oscillation incubation) is carried out with the speed of 150rpm at 37 DEG C. 
 (4) by amphimicrobian and microaerophilic bacteria (i.e. lactobacillus acidophilus (KCTC No.3164), streptococcus bacterium (KCTC
No.5644), long subspecies of bifidobacterium longum (KCTC No.3128) etc.) and aerobic bacteria (i.e. Bacillus cercus (KCTC
No.13123) etc.) it is inoculated into MRS culture medium (10g protease protein peptone, 10g beef extract, 5g yeast extract, 20g D-
Glucose, 1mL Tween 80,2g K 2 HPO 4 , 5g sodium acetate, 2g diammonium hydrogen citrate, 0.2g MgSO 4 ·7H 2 O、0.2g
MnSO 4 ·H 2 O, 1L distilled water, pH 6.2-6.5) in, and oscillation incubation is carried out with the speed of 150rpm at 37 DEG C. 
 The preparation that the 1-4. present invention combines 
 The 50mg fused salt prepared in above-mentioned steps and the drying of the 5mg dried grape sugar prepared in above-mentioned steps and 1mg is thermophilic
Lactobacillus lactis is thoroughly mixed together, and obtains combination of the invention (hereinafter represented as " CL1 "). 
 The combination is maintained in -75 DEG C of refrigerator, and is being used for following experiment by being dissolved in distilled water using preceding. 
 The other combinations of the invention listed in table 2 are prepared according to method similar to the above. 
 [table 2] 
 Combination 
 
 
 
 
 
 The preparation of the vaginal tablet composition of the invention of embodiment 2. 
 By using pelletizer (KT2000, Kumsungkigong) by the combination prepared in embodiment 1 (comprising 400mg
The dry lactobacillus acidophilus of fused salt, 800mg glucose and 40mg) it is mixed with 2mg magnesium stearate, to be configured to vaginal tablets of the invention
Agent combination of compositions (hereinafter represented as " SGL2 "). 
 
 
 The preparation of the vagina cleaning liquid composite of the invention of embodiment 3. 
 Packet is prepared by mixing 48 hours with following component shown in table 3 (hereinafter represented as " SGL3 ") under stiring
Containing the combination prepared in embodiment 1 (comprising the dry long subspecies of bifidobacterium longum of 400mg purified salt, 800mg glucose and 40mg)
Vagina cleaning liquid composite. 
 [table 3] 
 SGL4 solution (100mL) 
 
 
 
 Inhibiting effect of the EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 1. to the growth for the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy 
 In order to measure the suppression of growth of the combination of the invention prepared in embodiment 1 to the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy indirectly
Production is used, according to document (Choi, J.G. etc., Antibacterial activity of Ecklonia cava against
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Salmonella spp., Foodborne
Pathog.Dis., 2010 (Apr.):7 (4), pp435-441) disclosed in program carry out following test. 
 1-1. test strain 
 According to citation (D.D.Charles etc., identification of haemophilus vaginalis,
1960, Journal of bacteriology p277, R.P.Morgan etc., Amniotic fluid and
Maternalrace influence responsiveness of fetal membranes to bacteria, Journal
Of reproductive immunology, 96 (2012) 68-78), bacterium (the i.e. bacteroides fragilis of vaginopathy will be caused
(KCTC No.5013) and Gardnerella vaginalis (KCTC No.5097)) it is inoculated into and is supplemented with 5%FBS's (fetal calf serum)
(12g tryptone, 5g meat peptone, 5g sodium chloride, 3g yeast extract, 3g beef extract, 1g's Casmans culture medium form sediment
Powder casein, 0.5g D-Glucose, 0.05g niacinamide, 0.005g p-aminobenzoic acid, 1L distilled water, pH 7.3,5%FBS)
In, and by using GasPak TM EZ Pouch system (the Anaerobic Gas Generation Pouch system with indicator
System, BD, Cat.No.26083, USA) at 37 DEG C oscillation incubation is carried out with the speed of 150rpm. 
 1-2. experimental material 
 Combination of the invention shown in table 2 is used as test sample, lactic acid is purchased from company (Cat.No.252476, ACS
Reagent, 85%-90%, the Pfansteihl in water, Sigma-Aldrich Co.LLC). 
 1-3. experiment purpose 
 The purpose of this experiment be measure with only with the control group for causing the bacterial strain of vaginopathy to handle compared with, in embodiment 1
The variation of OD (optical density), pH and lactate level in the test group of the test sample processing of preparation. 
 1-4. experimental arrangement 
 1-4-1. control group 
 The test sample prepared in embodiment 1 is added to the bacterial strain (i.e. bacteroides fragilis (KCTC for causing vaginopathy
No.5013) and Gardnerella vaginalis (KCTC No.5097)) culture medium in.By the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy of preculture
(absorbance：OD 660 =1.0A, 1/100v/v) be inoculated into the Casman culture medium containing FBS again, and at 37 DEG C with
The speed of 150rpm carries out oscillation incubation 12 hours.Control group is handled with the test sample prepared in embodiment 1. 
 1-4-2. comparative group 
 Various lactic acid bacterias shown in table 1 are only added to the bacterial strain (i.e. bacteroides fragilis (KCTC for causing vaginopathy
No.5013) and Gardnerella vaginalis (KCTC No.5097)) culture medium in.By the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy of preculture
(absorbance：OD 660 =1.0A, 1/100v/v) be inoculated into the Casman culture medium containing FBS again, and at 37 DEG C with
The speed of 150rpm carries out oscillation incubation 12 hours.Only comparative group is handled with lactic acid bacteria. 
 1-4-3. test sample group 
 Cause the bacterial strain of vaginopathy (i.e. fragile being added in combination for the test sample prepared in 1mg lactic acid bacteria and embodiment 1
Bacteroid (KCTC No.5013) and Gardnerella vaginalis (KCTC No.5097)) culture tube in, and at 37 DEG C with
The speed of 150rpm carries out oscillation incubation 18 hours.Test specimens are handled with the test sample prepared in 1mg lactic acid bacteria and embodiment 1
Product group. 
 1-4-4.pH the measurement of value 
 The variation of pH value in control group and test sample group is measured as follows. 
 Control group and test sample are measured by using device (pH meter, SevenEasy, Mettler Toledo, Swiss)
The pH of cell culture fluid in group. 
 1-4-5. the measurement of lactate level 
 As follows using assay kit (D-/L- lactic acid (quick) assay kit, megazyme,
Cat.No.K-DLATE) lactate level in control group and test sample group is measured. 
 By 1.5mL distilled water, 0.1mL test sample and 0.02mL buffer solution (buffer；In addition D-Glu and nitrine
Change sodium (0.02%w/v), 0.1mL NAD, DGP (D-Glu-Pyruvic Transaminase suspension)) it pours into cuvette and together
Mixing 3 minutes.1 value of absorbance A is measured by using spectrophotometer (Spectronic Genesys 2, Thermo, USA)
(wavelength：340nm), and by 0.02mL D-LDL (D-lactic acid dehydrogenase suspension, D-/L- Lactic acid Kit, Megazyme,
Ireland it) is added in solution and is mixed together 5 minutes. 
 2 value (wave of absorbance A is measured by using spectrophotometer (Spectronic Genesys 2, Thermo, USA)
It is long：340nm). 
 Finally, by 0.02mL D-LDL (D-lactic acid dehydrogenase suspension, D-/L- Lactic acid Kit, Megazyme,
Ireland) be added solution in be mixed together 10 minutes, and by using spectrophotometer (Spectronic Genesys 2,
Thermo, USA) measurement 3 value (wavelength of absorbance A：340nm). 
 By using software (Mega-CalcTM, Megazyme, IDA Business Park, Bray, Co.Wicklow,
A98YV29, Ireland) and gained absorbance value A1-A3 determine the lactate level in control group and test sample group. 
 1-5. test result 
 With only with the control group for causing the bacterial strain of vaginopathy to handle compared with, handled with the test sample that is prepared in embodiment 1
Test group in OD (optical density), pH and lactate level the test result of variation be shown in table 4,5 (Gardnerella vaginalis of table
Bacterial strain) and table 6, table 7 (bacteroides fragilis bacterial strain) in. 
 1-5-1. Gardnerella vaginalis bacterial strain (is shown in Table 4, table 5) 
 It is aobvious with the test group of combined treatment of the invention in the case where the experiment handled with Gardnerella vaginalis bacterial strain
Acidic environment (i.e. pH range is 4.0-4.9) is shown, the inhibition ring of Gardnerella vaginalis strain growth is provided in vagina
Border, and the control group of unused combined treatment of the invention shows that pH range is 5.19-5.52. 
 For the level of the lactic acid in vagina with harmful bacterial growth inhibitory activity, at combination of the invention
Lactate level range in the test group of reason is 0.970mg/mL-1.712mg/mL, with the comparative group phase only handled with lactic acid bacteria
Than, more effective Gardnerella vaginalis strain growth inhibitory activity is provided in vagina, and at unused combination of the invention
The control group of reason shows that lactate level range is 0.711mg/mL-0.765mg/mL. 
 1-5-2. bacteroides fragilis bacterial strain (is shown in Table 6, table 7) 
 In the case where the experiment handled with bacteroides fragilis bacterial strain, shown with the test group of combined treatment of the invention
Acidic environment (i.e. pH range is 4.4-4.9), provides the inhibition environment of bacteroides fragilis strain growth in vagina, and unused
The control group of combined treatment of the invention shows that pH range is 5.21-5.62. 
 For the level of the lactic acid in vagina with harmful bacterial growth inhibitory activity, at combination of the invention
Lactate level range in the test group of reason is 0.4420mg/mL-1.049mg/mL, with the comparative group phase only handled with lactic acid bacteria
Than, provide more effective bacteroides fragilis strain growth inhibitory activity in vagina, and unused combined treatment of the invention
Control group shows that lactate level is 0.000mg/mL. 
 Therefore, it was confirmed that combination of the invention promotes the growth of lactic acid bacteria by providing required nutrient, to pierce
The production for maintaining the lactic acid of acid vagina environment is swashed. 
 [table 4] 
 The variation (Gardnerella vaginalis bacterial strain) of lactate level and pH 
 
 
 
 [table 5] 
 The variation (Gardnerella vaginalis bacterial strain) of lactate level and pH 
 
 
 
 [table 6] 
 The variation (bacteroides fragilis bacterial strain) of lactate level and pH 
 
 
 
 [table 7] 
 The variation (bacteroides fragilis bacterial strain) of lactate level and pH 
 
 
 
 Direct repression of the EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 2. to the growth for the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy 
 In order to confirm the direct inhibition of growth of the combination of the invention prepared in embodiment 1 to the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy
Effect, is carried out as follows following test. 
 The purpose of 2-1. preliminary test 
 Various resistance antibiotic by using lactic acid bacteria and the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy carry out cream used in measurement experiment
Sour bacterium and cause vaginopathy bacterial strain neurological susceptibility, and combination of the invention can be measured quantitatively and directly to causing vaginopathy
Bacterial strain inhibitory activity or facilitation. 
 Used the various antibiotic of various concentration in this experiment, i.e. 50 μ g/mL ampicillins (Cat.No.AM0510,
Georgia Chem., the U.S.), 50 μ g/mL kanamycins (Cat.No.KA2003, Georgia Chem., the U.S.), 34 μ g/mL
Chloramphenicol (Art.3886.2, Germany), 15 μ g/mL tetracyclines (Art.Nr.HP63.1, Germany), 50 μ g/mL streptomysins
(Cat.No.S1027, Biosesang, South Korea), 20 μ g/mL gentamicins (Cat.No.GS3007, Georgia Chem., beauty
State) and 25 μ g/mL rifampins (Cat.No.R3501, Sigma-Alrich, the U.S.). 
 Preliminary test of the 2-2. to the neurological susceptibility for the bacterial strain for causing vaginopathy 
 2-2-1. experimental arrangement 
 It will cause bacterial strain (i.e. bacteroides fragilis (KCTC No.5013) and the Gardnerella vaginalis (KCTC of vaginopathy
No.5097 it)) is inoculated into the Casmans culture medium for being supplemented with 5% Sheep Blood and 1.5% agar, and passes through under anaerobic
Use GasPak TM It is small that EZ Gas Generation Pouch system (BD, Cat.No.26083, the U.S.) carries out oscillation incubation 36
When. 
 After incubation, bacterium colony is collected by platinum circle and is inoculated into the Casmans training for being supplemented with 5%FBS (fetal calf serum)
Support base (12g tryptone, 5g meat peptone, 5g sodium chloride, 3g yeast extract, 3g beef extract, 1g starch casein,
0.5g D-Glucose, 0.05g niacinamide, 0.005g p-aminobenzoic acid, 1L distilled water, pH 7.3,5%FBS) in.According to drawing
With document (Treatment of Gardnella vaginalis infection., JI.Adinma etc., J.Obstetrics
And Gynaecology, 17 (6), pp.573-575,1997；Treatment of urinary tract infection by
Gardnella vaginalis；A composition of oral metronidazole versus ampicillin,
AG.PA. etc., Rev Latioam Microbiol.2001,43 (2):pp65-69；Antimicrobial
Susceptibilities of Gardnella vaginalis., Kharsany AB. etc., antimicrobial agents
And chemotherapy, 1993, pp2733-2735.；Susceptibilities of Bacteroides fragilis
to six antibiotics determined by standardized antimicrobial disc
Susceptibility testing., Sutter VL. etc., antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy,
1973, pp188-193), by using GasPak TM EZ Pouch system (the Anaerobic Gas with indicator
Generation Pouch system, BD, Cat.No.26083, USA) at 37 DEG C oscillation incubation 24 is carried out with the speed of 150rpm
Hour. 
 2-2-2. test result 
 As a result, showing various antibiotic in table 8 is directed to the antibiotic susceptibility for causing the bacterium of vaginopathy. 
 [table 8] 
 Various antibiotic are directed to the antibiotic susceptibility for causing the bacterium of vaginopathy 
 
 
 
 Preliminary test of the 2-3. to the neurological susceptibility of lactic acid bacteria strains 
 2-2-1. experimental arrangement 
 In order to measure the lactic acid bacteria strains (the i.e. lactobacillus acidophilus (KCTC No.3164), long bifid bar that produce a large amount of lactic acid
Long subspecies of bacterium (KCTC No.3128) etc.) antibiotic resistance, by microbionation to MRS culture medium (10g protease protein peptone,
10g beef extract, 5g yeast extract, 20g D-Glucose, 1mL Tween 80,2g K 2 HPO 4 , 5g sodium acetate, 2g lemon
Sour hydrogen diammonium, 0.2g MgSO 4 ·7H 2 O、0.2g MnSO 4 ·H 2 O, 1L distilled water, pH 6.2-6.5) in, and at 37 DEG C with
The speed of 150rpm carries out oscillation incubation. 
 Anaerobism is incubated for, according to citation (Antibiotic susceptibility of members of the
lactobacillus acidophilus group using broth microdilution and molecular
Identification of their resistance determinants, M.Sigrids etc., International
Journal of Food Microbiology 144 (2010), pp81-87；Antibiotic sensitivity of acid
Stressed probiotic Lactobacillus acidophilus ncdc 291, NNK, GS., The internet
Journal of microbiology, volume 9, (2010)；Antimicrobial susceptibility of
Bifidobactria., F.CM. etc., Journal of antimicrobial Chemotherapy (2005) 55, pp.38-
44), by using GasPak TM EZ Pouch system (the Anaerobic Gas Generation Pouch system with indicator
System, BD, Cat.No.26083, the U.S.) culture medium is carried out oscillation incubation 24 hours with the speed of 150rpm at 37 DEG C. 
 2-2-2. test result 
 As a result, showing the antibiotic susceptibility that various antibiotic are directed to lactic acid bacteria strains in table 9. 
 [table 9] 
 Various antibiotic are directed to the antibiotic susceptibility of lactic acid bacteria strains 
 
 
 
 Major experimental of the 2-3. to antibiotic susceptibility 
 2-3-1. experimental arrangement 
 In order to measure the bacterial strain (i.e. bacteroides fragilis (KCTC No.5013) and the Gardnerella vaginalis that cause vaginopathy
(KCTC No.5097)) and a large amount of lactic acid of production various lactic acid bacteria strains (i.e. lactobacillus acidophilus (KCTC No.3164), long
Long subspecies of Bifidobacterium (KCTC No.3128) etc.) antibiotic resistance, carry out following experiment. 
 By handling 50 μ g/mL ampicillins to the group with bacteroides fragilis and various lactobacillus strains while processing
It measures the growth rate of bacteroides fragilis, leads to the inhibition of various lactobacillus strains growths. 
 By by 50 μ g/mL ampicillins handle to bacteroides fragilis and various bifidobacterium strains and meanwhile processing
Group measures the growth rate of bacteroides fragilis, leads to the inhibition of various bifidobacterium strains growths. 
 By handling 20 μ g/mL ampicillins to Gardnerella vaginalis and various lactobacillus strains while handling
Group measure the growth rate of Gardnerella vaginalis, lead to the inhibition of various lactobacillus strains growths. 
 By by 20 μ g/mL ampicillins handle to bacteroides fragilis and various bifidobacterium strains and meanwhile processing
Group measures the growth rate of Gardnerella vaginalis, leads to the inhibition of various bifidobacterium strains growths. 
 Based on the test result of preliminary test by fractions tested be 5 groups, i.e.,：(a) purified salt and glucose (1 are used:1, w/w)
Combined treatment group I, such as CL1, CF1, CB1, CS1；(b) fused salt and fructooligosaccharide (1 are used:2, w/w) group of combined treatment
II, such as CL2, CF2, CB2, CS2；(c) crude salt and lactulose (1 are used:5, w/w) the group III of combined treatment, as CL3,
CF3,CB3,CS3；(d) purified salt and fructose (2 are used:1, w/w) the group IV of combined treatment, such as CL4, CF4, CB4, CS4；And
(e) fused salt and lactitol (5 are used:1, w/w) the group V of combined treatment, such as CL5, CF5, CB5, CS5.By diluted test sample
It is inoculated into the selected culture medium comprising 50 μ g/mL ampicillins or 20 μ g gentamicins again.By 20 μ l preincubate cultures
Base (in fluid nutrient medium) is diluted to Casmans culture medium (the 12g pancreas that 1,000 μ l are supplemented with 5%FBS (fetal calf serum)
Peptone, 5g meat peptone, 5g sodium chloride, 3g yeast extract, 3g beef extract, 1g starch casein, 0.5g D- grape
Sugar, 0.05g niacinamide, 0.005g p-aminobenzoic acid, 1L distilled water, pH 7.3,5%FBS) in, and collect 20 μ l culture mediums
It include to select antibiotic and be supplemented in the 3mL Casmans culture medium of 5%FBS to be inoculated into again.By using GasPak TM 
EZ Pouch system (the Anaerobic Gas Generation Pouch system with indicator, BD, Cat.No.26083,
The U.S.) at 37 DEG C with the speed of 150rpm by both solid medium containing agar and fluid nutrient medium carry out oscillation incubation
24 hours. 
 By using spectrophotometer (Spectronic genesis 2, Thermo, the U.S., the O.D. under 600nm wavelength
Value) growth rate for the bacterium cultivated in liquid medium is measured, and it is measured in solid culture by calculating colony counts
Growth rate in base. 
 2-3-2. test result 
 From bacteroides fragilis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v) contains 50 μ g/
ML ampicillin) in test result table 10 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that in the group cultivated together with various lactobacillus strains
I, the growth organized III and organize the bacteroides fragilis in V is suppressed, and the test result of O.D (optical density) value and bacterium colony counting is shown in
Table 10. 
 [table 10] 
 The test result of the growth for the bacteroides fragilis cultivated together with various lactobacillus strains 
 
 
 
 From bacteroides fragilis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v) contains 50 μ g/
ML ampicillin) in test result table 11 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that the group I cultivated together with bifidobacterium strain,
It group II, group III, group IV and organizes the growth of the bacteroides fragilis in V and is suppressed, the test that O.D (optical density) value and bacterium colony count
As a result shown in table 11. 
 [table 11] 
 The test result of the growth for the bacteroides fragilis cultivated together with bifidobacterium strain 
 
 
 
 From bacteroides fragilis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v) contains 50 μ g/
ML ampicillin) in test result table 12 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that is cultivated together with bacillus cereus strain
It group I, group II, group III, group IV and organizes the growth of the bacteroides fragilis in V and is suppressed, what O.D (optical density) value and bacterium colony counted
Test result shown in table 12. 
 [table 12] 
 The test result of the growth for the bacteroides fragilis cultivated together with bacillus cereus strain 
 
 
 
 From bacteroides fragilis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v) contains 50 μ g/
ML ampicillin) in test result table 13 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that cultivated together with strains of streptococcus group I, group
The growth of II, group III, group IV and the bacteroides fragilis in group V are suppressed, the test knot of O.D (optical density) value and bacterium colony counting
Fruit shown in table 13. 
 [table 13] 
 The test result of the growth for the bacteroides fragilis cultivated together with strains of streptococcus 
 
 
 
 From Gardnerella vaginalis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v), contains
20 μ g/mL gentamicins) in test result table 14 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that is cultivated together with various lactobacillus strains
The growth of Gardnerella vaginalis in group III is suppressed, and the test result of O.D (optical density) value and bacterium colony counting is shown in table
14。 
 [table 14] 
 The test result of the growth for the Gardnerella vaginalis cultivated together with various lactobacillus strains 
 
 
 
 From Gardnerella vaginalis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v), contains
50 μ g/mL ampicillins) in test result table 15 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that trained together with various bifidobacterium strains
The growth of feeding group I, group II, group III, group IV and the Gardnerella vaginalis in group V are suppressed, O.D (optical density) value and bacterium
Fall the test result shown in table 15 of counting. 
 [table 15] 
 The test result of the growth for the Gardnerella vaginalis cultivated together with bifidobacterium strain 
 
 
 
 From Gardnerella vaginalis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v), contains
50 μ g/mL ampicillins) in test result table 16 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that trained together with bacillus cereus strain
The growth of feeding group I, group II, group III, group IV and the Gardnerella vaginalis in group V are suppressed, O.D (optical density) value and bacterium
Fall the test result shown in table 16 of counting. 
 [table 16] 
 The test result of the growth for the Gardnerella vaginalis cultivated together with bacillus cereus strain 
 
 
 
 From Gardnerella vaginalis is shown in selected culture medium (Casmans culture medium：MRS culture medium (v/v), contains
50 μ g/mL ampicillins) in test result table 17 it can be seen that, it was confirmed that in the group cultivated together with strains of streptococcus
I, the growth for organizing II, group III, group IV and the Gardnerella vaginalis in group V is suppressed, and O.D (optical density) value and bacterium colony count
Test result shown in table 17. 
 [table 17] 
 The test result of the growth for the Gardnerella vaginalis cultivated together with strains of streptococcus 
 
 
 
 Therefore, it confirms by above-mentioned experiment and is individually handled with lactic acid bacteria and individually handle phase with the combination of salt and sugar
Than combination of the invention is shown to the more effective inhibiting effect of bacterium for causing vaginopathy. 
 3. simple clinical trial (1) of EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 
 To 100 volunteers (by living in 35 of age 20-50 years old of South Korea patients with vaginopathy and 65 just
Normal women composition) it is external give 1, the 200mg vaginal tablet composition (SGL2) 5 days (once a day) prepared in embodiment 2, with
Questionnaire survey is carried out, and has investigated the difference of following various contents：(a) bad smell prevents from acting on；(b) feeling of freshness is horizontal；
And (c) skin psoriasis alleviation activity. 
 Investigation result is divided into four groups：(1) very satisfied；(2) satisfied；(3) normal；And (4) are dissatisfied, investigation result is shown
In table 18. 
 [table 18] 
 Investigation result 
 
 
 
 As a result, as can be seen from Table 18, prevent from acting on for (a) bad smell, with compositions-treated of the invention
Afterwards, 94% volunteer is satisfied, and particularly, 79% volunteer is very satisfied. 
 For (b) feeling of freshness level, after with compositions-treated of the invention, 86% volunteer is satisfied, particularly,
72% volunteer is very satisfied. 
 For the alleviation activity of skin psoriasis, after with compositions-treated of the invention, 85% volunteer is satisfied, special
Not, 67% volunteer is very satisfied. 
 Therefore, it has proved that vaginal tablet composition of the invention has effective advantageous effect, such as：(a) unpleasant gas
The prevention effect of taste；(b) feeling of freshness is horizontal；And (c) the alleviation activity etc. of skin psoriasis, and the composition is as vagina
Tablet composition is useful with the vaginopathy for treating or preventing patient's vagina. 
 It is readily apparent that the invention thus described can be varied in many ways.It is not considered that such variation is de-
From the spirit and scope of the present invention, and it will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that all such equal purports of modification
It is being included in the scope of the appended claims. 
 4. simple clinical trial (2) of EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 
 To 100 volunteers (by living in 42 of age 20-50 years old of South Korea patients with vaginopathy and 58 just
Normal women composition) the 200mL vagina cleaning composition (SGL4) 5 days (once a day) prepared in embodiment 3 is given in outside, and leads to
It crosses and measures (A) and later (B) before compositions-treated of the invention using pH meter (MP-103, www.yuyuinst.co.kr)
PH between vaginal pH difference. 
 As a result, as can be seen from Table 19, before with compositions-treated of the invention, the vagina pH of 85% test group reaches
To 5.5 or more；However, the vagina pH of 90% test group reaches normal pH range after with compositions-treated of the invention. 
 [table 19] 
 PH difference 
 
 
 
 Therefore, it has proved that cleaning combination (it can be SGL4) of the invention can be used for reducing with vagina alkalization
The vagina pH of patient. 
 It is readily apparent that the invention thus described can be varied in many ways.It is not considered that such variation is de-
From the spirit and scope of the present invention, and it will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that all such equal purports of modification
It is being included in the scope of the appended claims. 
 The acute toxic test being administered orally in 5. rat of EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 
 It is carried out by giving combination of the invention (SGL2 and SGL4) to the SPF Sprague-Dawley rat of 6 week old
Acute toxic test. 
 250mg/kg, 500mg/kg, 1000mg/kg, 5000mg/kg are given to each group being made of 2 rats is oral
Combination of the invention, and to rat Symptom Observation 14 days.After giving combination of the invention, to all clinical changes (that is, dead
Die rate, clinical sign, changes of weight) observed, and carry out blood testing (such as hematology test and haemobiochemistry survey
Examination).The anomalous variation of abdomen organ and thoracic organs are observed after autopsy. 
 In any group or any gender, in the death rate, clinical sign, changes of weight and overall discovery (gross
Findings) aspect does not show any variation.In addition, in the test group of the combined treatment of the present invention with 5000mg/kg
In do not show any toxicity. 
 Therefore, it was confirmed that present invention combination prepared by the present invention is effective and safe substance, is shown in oral administration
LD greater than 5000mg/kg is shown 50 。 
 Hereinafter, preparation method and categories of excipients will be described, but the invention is not restricted to this.It is representative
Preparating example is described as follows. 
 The preparation of injection 
 
 
 
 It is controlled by active component dissolution, by pH to about 7.5 by regular injection agent preparation method and then fills out all components
It is filled in 2mL ampoule and sterilizes to prepare injection product. 
 The preparation of powder 
 
 
 
 Powder product is prepared by mixing the above component and filling sealed package. 
 The preparation of tablet 
 
 
 
 Tablet product is prepared by mixing the above component and carrying out tabletting. 
 The preparation of capsule 
 
 
 
 The above component is mixed by normal gelatin agent preparation method and fills gelatine capsule to prepare tablet product. 
 The preparation of liquid agent 
 
 
 
 It is packed into 1000mL ampoule by conventional liq agent preparation method by active component dissolution, then by all components
And it sterilizes to prepare liquid agent product. 
 The preparation of healthy food 
 
 
 
 Said vitamin and mineral mixture can be changed in many ways.It is not considered that it is such variation departing from
The spirit and scope of the present invention. 
 The preparation of healthy beverage 
 
 
 
 It stirred 1 hour, filtered, so by active component dissolution, mixing, at 85 DEG C by general health method for preparing beverage
All components are packed into 1000mL ampoule afterwards and are sterilized to prepare healthy beverage product. 
 It is readily apparent that the invention thus described can be varied in many ways.It is not considered that such variation is de-
From the spirit and scope of the present invention, and it will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that all such equal purports of modification
It is being included in the scope of the appended claims. 
 Industrial applicibility 
 As described herein, the present invention provides a kind of for treating or preventing the composition of vaginopathy, the composition
Present invention combination comprising salt, sugar and lactic acid bacteria is used as active constituent.Composition of the invention has been shown via kinds of experiments
The antibacterial activity of effect, such as：(1) change the growth of the bacterium for causing vaginopathy carried out by measurement pH and lactate level
Indirect inhibitory activity test (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 1)；(2) cause vaginopathy by measure that the neurological susceptibility of test sample carries out
The direct inhibitory activity of the growth of bacterium tests (EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 2)；(3) simple clinical trial, and finally confirmed the combination
Effective antibacterial activity is shown in testing.Therefore, combination of the invention can with pharmaceutical composition, healthy functions food,
The form of food additives, topical compositions and detergent composition is for mitigating, treating or preventing vaginopathy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
