
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Caries preventive agent and preventing decayed tooth composition 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to a kind of caries preventive agent containing Bifidobacterium and preventing decayed tooth composition. 
 
 
 Background technology 
 When life in the oral cavity life dental caries bacterium such as Streptococcus mutans (Streptococcus mutans) intake food and
The life dental caries carbohydrate (such as sucrose, fructose and glucose) contained in beverage, and acid is produced, and acid dissolving dental surface
Enamel and during dentine, it may occur that carious tooth. 
 The enamel of dental surface and the key component of dentine are hydroxyapatite and fluor-apatite.These materials pass through raw dental caries
Sour activity caused by bacterium is decomposed, and discharges phosphate anion and calcium ion (demineralization). 
 Meanwhile calcium ion in oral cavity in saliva and phosphate anion are incorporated in enamel surfaces, and the part of demineralization
Recrystallize (remineralization). 
 In each meal, demineralization and remineralization are repeated in oral cavity, and is generally in poised state.Beaten in balance
Carious tooth is produced when random. 
 Mode as pre- anti-caries, it is known to use there is oligosaccharides, sugar alcohol of anticariogenic activity etc..In patent document 1, make
By the use of Palatinitol (palatinit) as non-cariogenic oligosaccharides, it is not consumed by Streptococcus mutans.Patent document 2 discloses one
Kind or two kinds or the sugar alcohol more than two kinds selected from xylitol, mannitol, galactitol and inositol, and sugar alcohol is described with anti-
Dental caries activity. 
 [correlation technique file] 
 [patent document] 
 [patent document 1] JP-A-2000-281550 
 [patent document 2] JP-A-11-12143 
 
 
 The content of the invention 
 [the problem of present invention is to be solved] 
 However, in some, because the individual difference of intestines sensitiveness, above oligosaccharides and sugar alcohol easily cause diarrhoea, taken off
Water etc., therefore oligosaccharides be present or the problem of sugar alcohol can not be supplied to these people. 
 Therefore, it is an object of the present invention to provide a kind of new caries preventive agent, it has no side effect, therefore can also be to widow
Anticaries action is obtained in sugar and the extremely sensitive people of sugar alcohol. 
 It is used to prevent periodontosis or medicament for treating periodontosis it is another object of the present invention to provide a kind of, its
Have the function that prevent or treat periodontosis and its have no side effect. 
 [mode for solving problem] 
 Present inventor concentrates on bacterium (i.e. Bifidobacterium) work for belonging to Bifidobacterium (Bifidobacterium) bacterium category
For the candidate of new caries preventive agent.Bifidobacterium is referred to as the useful enteric bacteria of the viewpoint of both nutrition and bacteriology, because
There is following effect for Bifidobacterium, such as improve diarrhoea, improve constipation, prevention or treatment opportunistic bacterium infection and the micro- life of cause of disease
Thing infection, the growth of the harmful enteric bacteria of suppression, produce B family vitamin and promote digestion and absorption by reducing lactose.This
Outside, it is known that Bifidobacterium is to host intestine immune system with effect, to allergy with improvement result etc.. 
 By further investigation, the inventors have found that Bifidobacterium has anticaries action in itself, and the present invention is realized.This
Inventor also found that Bifidobacterium has the function that to prevent or treat periodontosis in itself. 
 Therefore, the present invention is as follows. 
 1. a kind of caries preventive agent, it includes Bifidobacterium. 
 2. according to the caries preventive agent described in entries above 1, wherein the Bifidobacterium is bifidobacterium
(Bifidobacterium bifidum)。 
 3. the caries preventive agent according to entries above 1 or 2, wherein the Bifidobacterium is bifidobacterium OLB6378
Bacterial strain (registration number：NITE BP-31). 
 4. the caries preventive agent according to any one of entries above 1 to 3, wherein the Bifidobacterium is through Overheating Treatment
The form of cell. 
 5. the caries preventive agent according to any one of entries above 1 to 4, wherein with 10 8 Amount more than individual cell/day is continuous
Use the Bifidobacterium surrounding or more long. 
 6. a kind of preventing decayed tooth composition, it includes the caries preventive agent according to any one of entries above 1 to 5. 
 7. the preventing decayed tooth composition according to entries above 6, it also includes dispersant. 
 8. the preventing decayed tooth composition according to entries above 7, wherein the dispersant is dextrin. 
 9. the preventing decayed tooth composition according to any one of entries above 6 to 8, it is preventing decayed tooth food composition. 
 10. the preventing decayed tooth composition according to any one of entries above 6 to 8, it is anticariogenic agent composition. 
 11. a kind of oral formulations, it includes the preventing decayed tooth composition according to entries above 10. 
 12. a kind of package body, it includes the preventing decayed tooth composition and packing timber according to any one of entries above 6 to 10
Material, wherein the preventing decayed tooth composition is packaged in the packaging material. 
 13. a kind of medicament for being used to prevent periodontosis or the medicament for treating periodontosis, it includes Bifidobacterium. 
 14. a kind of caries preventive agent, the medicament for preventing periodontosis or the medicament for treating periodontosis, it includes bifid bar
Bacterium. 
 15. bifidobacterium OLB6378 bacterial strain (registration numbers：NITE BP-31), it has been heat-treated. 
 [advantage of the invention] 
 In the present invention, it was discovered that Bifidobacterium has anticaries action, it is therefore possible to provide containing Bifidobacterium and nothing
New caries preventive agent or the preventing decayed tooth composition of side effect. 
 In addition, because finding that Bifidobacterium has the function that to prevent or treat periodontosis, it is possible to provide for pre-
Anti- periodontosis or the new medicament for treating periodontosis, it contains Bifidobacterium and had no side effect；Or for preventing periodontosis
Or for treating the new compositions of periodontosis, it contains Bifidobacterium and had no side effect. 
 
 
 Embodiment 
 The present invention is illustrated in detail below. 
 The present invention relates to a kind of caries preventive agent containing Bifidobacterium or preventing decayed tooth composition. 
 It is used to prevent periodontosis or the medicament containing Bifidobacterium for treating periodontosis the invention further relates to a kind of；Or
The composition containing Bifidobacterium for preventing periodontosis or for treating periodontosis. 
 In this manual, unless otherwise specifically indicated, otherwise caries preventive agent, the medicament for preventing periodontosis and for controlling
Treat periodontosis medicament be collectively referred to as " medicament of the invention ", and preventing decayed tooth composition, the composition for preventing periodontosis and
Composition for treating periodontosis is collectively referred to as " composition of the invention ". 
 <Bifidobacterium> 
 Bifidobacterium for the present invention is a kind of bacterium for belonging to Bifidobacterium, and for the bifid bar of the present invention
The species of bacterium and source are unrestricted.Specifically, the example of Bifidobacterium includes bifidobacterium, bifidobacterium longum
(Bifidobacterium longum), bifidobacterium breve (Bifidobacterium breve), bifidobacterium adolescentis
(Bifidobacterium adolescentis), bifidobacterium infantis (Bifidobacterium infantis), false length are double
Discrimination bacillus (Bifidobacterium pseudolongum), lactic acid Bifidobacterium (Bifidobacterium lactis) and
Bifidobacterium thermophilum (Bifidobacterium thermophilum). 
 One particular instance of bifidobacterium bifidum strain is bifidobacterium OLB6378 bacterial strain (registration numbers：NITE
BP-31).The example of bifidobacterium longum bacterial strain includes No. 7 bacterial strain (registration number of bifidobacterium longum：FERM BP-11242) and it is long
Bifidobacterium OLB6290 bacterial strain (registration numbers：NITE P-75).There is a possibility that the medicament of the present invention is provided with these bacterial strains. 
 These bacterial strains are deposited in National Technical evaluation studies institute (National Institute of by applicant
Technology and Evaluation) (NITE patent microbial preservations mechanism (NITE Patent Microorganisms
)) or national Advanced Industrial Science research institute (National Institute of Advanced Depositary
Industrial Science and Technology) (International Patent Organism body preservation mechanism (International
Patent Organism Depositary)).The content for the bacterial strain for describing institute's preservation in detail is described below. 
 Applicant by the preservation of bifidobacterium OLB6378 bacterial strains under the following conditions. 
 (1) title of preservation mechanism： 
 National Technical evaluation studies institute, NITE patent microbial preservations mechanism 
 (2) contact method： 
 2-5-8Kazusakamatari, Kisarazu-shi, Chiba 292-0818 (current addresses：122,2-5-
8Kazusakamatari,Kisarazu-shi,Chiba 292-0818) 
 Telephone number：0438-20-5580 
 (3) registration number： 
 NITE BP-31 
 (4) identification instruction： 
 Bifidobacterium OLB6378 
 (5) initial preservation date： 
 On October 26th, 2004 
 (6) it is transferred to the date of International Depository Authority according to budapest treaty (Budapest Treaty)： 
 On January 18th, 2006. 
 Applicant by No. 7 bacterial strain preservation of bifidobacterium longum under the following conditions. 
 (1) title of preservation mechanism： 
 National Advanced Industrial Science research institute, International Patent Organism body preservation mechanism (current preservation organization names：Country
Technology evaluation research institute, NITE patent microbial preservations mechanism) 
 (2) contact method： 
 Central 6,1-1-1Higashi,Tsukuba,Ibaraki 305-8566 
 Telephone number：029-861-6029 
 (current contact method： 
 120,2-5-8Kazusakamatari,Kisarazu-shi,Chiba 292-0818 
 Telephone number：0438-20-5910) 
 (3) registration number： 
 FERM BP-11242 
 (4) identification instruction： 
 Bifidobacterium longum the 7th 
 (5) initial preservation date： 
 On April 20th, 1993 
 (6) date of International Depository Authority is transferred to according to budapest treaty： 
 On March 2nd, 2010. 
 Applicant by the preservation of bifidobacterium longum OLB6290 bacterial strains under the following conditions. 
 (1) title of preservation mechanism： 
 National Technical evaluation studies institute, NITE patent microbial preservations mechanism 
 (2) contact method： 
 2-5-8Kazusakamatari, Kisarazu-shi, Chiba 292-0818 (current addresses：122,2-5-
8Kazusakamatari,Kisarazu-shi,Chiba 292-0818) 
 Telephone number：0438-20-5580 
 (3) registration number： 
 NITE P-75 
 (4) identification instruction： 
 Bifidobacterium longum OLB6290 
 (5) preservation date： 
 On 2 3rd, 2005. 
 Bifidobacterium OLB6378 bacterial strains, No. 7 bacterial strain of bifidobacterium longum and bifidobacterium longum OLB6290 bacterial strains tool
There is following mycology characteristic. 
 Bifidobacterium OLB6378 bacterial strains are gram-positive definitely anaerobism bacillus, and it is from people's infant faeces
Isolate.When at 37 DEG C under anaerobic using AnaeroPackKenki (Mitsubishi Gas Chemical manufacture) in BL agar
When this bacterium 48 hours is cultivated on (Eiken Chemical) flat board, opaque circular hemispherical smooth bacterium colony is formed. 
 In addition, by using bifidobacterium specific primer (the 8th gut flora seminar, enteron aisle germ group's
Molecular ecology detects and identification, and light hilllock is content with one's lot and pine is grand grand) enter performing PCR to obtain PCR primer, specifically, BiBIF-1：
CCA CAT GAT CGC ATG TGA TT(SEQ ID NO:And BiBIF-2 1)：CCG AAG GCT TGC TCC CAA A
(SEQ ID NO:2), it is the species-specific primer in 16S rRNA regions.The bacterial strain can also ferment galactose, glucose,
Fructose, lactose and gentiobiose. 
 No. 7 bacterial strain of bifidobacterium longum is gram-positive absolute anaerobic bacteria, its from being isolated into human faecal mass and
It is shaft-like or paniculate polymorphic bacterium.The bacterial strain does not form spore and without motion.When passing through steel wool method at 37 DEG C
When cultivating this bacterium 48 hours on BL agar (Eiken Chemical) flat board, formed opaque circular hemispherical smooth
Bacterium colony.The bacterial strain can ferment arabinose, xylose, ribose, glucose, fructose, galactolipin, sucrose, maltose, lactose,
Melibiose, gossypose and melezitose. 
 Bifidobacterium longum OLB6290 bacterial strains are gram-positive definitely anaerobism bacillus, and it divides from people's infant faeces
Separate out and do not form spore.Have confirmed and obtained by PCR using the following species-specific primer in 16S rRNA regions
PCR primer：BiLON-1：TTC CAG TTG ATC GCA TGG TC(SEQ ID NO:And BiLON-2 3)：GGG AAG CCG
TAT CTC TAC GA(SEQ ID NO:4).The bacterial strain can ferment arabinose, xylose, ribose, glucose, mannose, fruit
Sugar, galactolipin, sucrose, maltose, lactose, melibiose, gossypose and melezitose. 
 The culture medium for being typically used as Medium of Bifidobacterium can be used for the bacterial strain of the culture present invention.That is, can be with
Culture medium for the present invention is not particularly limited, and can use any culture medium, as long as the culture medium contains scheduled volume
Primary carbon source and nitrogen source, inorganic matter and other nutrition. 
 As carbon source, the assimilation of bacterial strain uses therefor can be regarded and use lactose, glucose, sucrose, fructose, Starch Hydrolysis
Thing, molasses etc..As nitrogen source, can use and contain organic nitrogen compound, as casein hydrolysate, lactalbumin hydrolysate and
Soybean protein hydrolyate.In addition, it is used as growth stimulant using meat extract, fish extracts, yeast extract etc.. 
 Culture is preferably carried out under anaerobic, and can use known method, is such as cultivated while carbon gas is blown
The method of bacterial strain.Bacterial strain can also make alternatively to cultivate, such as be stood under micro- aerobic condition using conventional liquid
Cultural method is carried out under batch condition.Cultivation temperature is 25 to 50 DEG C, particularly preferred 35 to 42 DEG C.However, this hair
Bright cultivation temperature is not limited to the temperature, and can also use another temperature conditionss, as long as bacterial strain can be in the temperature
Lower growth. 
 In the training period, the pH value of culture medium preferably remains in 6.0 to 7.0, but can also use another pH conditions, only
Bacterial strain is wanted to be grown under the pH value.Incubation time is preferably 3 to 48 hours, more preferably 8 to 24 hours, particularly preferably
10 to 20 hours, but another incubation time can also be used, as long as bacterial strain can grow in the incubation time. 
 The medicament (caries preventive agent, the medicament for preventing periodontosis and the medicament for treating periodontosis) or this hair of the present invention
Bright composition (preventing decayed tooth composition, the composition for preventing periodontosis and the composition for treating periodontosis) contains bifid
Bacillus, and the inventors have found that Bifidobacterium is that have the function that anticaries action and prevention periodontosis and treatment periodontosis
Component, i.e. active component. 
 Gained bacterial cell can be contained in the medicament or composition of the present invention as the process obtained by following processing
The Bifidobacterium product of processing.The example of treated Bifidobacterium product is included after cultivating without any other processing
Culture；The culture for being centrifuged or being filtered after culture, i.e. its concentrate；It is further processed into the culture of paste；Pass through
Dry products (spray dried products, lyophilisation product, vacuum drying product, the drum drying product that various methods obtain
Deng)；Wherein cell is scattered in the liquid in culture medium；The product of the dilution obtained using diluent；Product through Overheating Treatment
(cell through Overheating Treatment)；The product by light processing obtained by using ultraviolet and/or radiation treatment (passes through light processing
Cell)；The product chemically handled obtained is handled by using chemicals (bactericide, antibacterial agent or bacteriostatic agent)
(cell chemically handled)；And the product of crushing of dry products acquisition is crushed by using grinder etc.. 
 Centrifugation, filtering, concentration, crushing etc. are carried out by common method.Drying means can be for example by being dried in vacuo, spraying
Mist is dry, freeze-drying or drum drying are carried out.Culture medium, diluent, chemicals (bactericide, antibacterial agent or bacteriostatic agent)
Etc. can be the known substance that is suitably selected and used. 
 In this manual, this treated product be sometimes referred to simply as " treated Bifidobacterium product " or
" treated product ". 
 As will be illustrated in the example below, the bifid by being heat-treated 15 minutes inactivations at 90 DEG C is found for example that in the present invention
The cell of bacillus also has the function that anticaries action, prevention periodontosis and the effect for treating periodontosis.Therefore, containing of the invention thin
The treated product of bacterium cell is not only applicable when bacterial cell is living cells, and is through Overheating Treatment in bacterial cell
During cell (for example, when the acquisition 0.1ml samples from the suspension (dispersion soln) of the bifidobacterium cells through Overheating Treatment, and
And when being cultivated under anaerobic in the petri diss (petri dish) for the culture medium that can be grown containing Bifidobacterium,
Bifidobacterium bacterium colony is not formed) it is equally applicable. 
 After the Bifidobacterium and/or its treated product obtained by the above method can be with living cells or heat treatment
Crush or the form of the treated product of non-crash cells is included in the medicament of the present invention.May be used also in the medicament of the present invention
With the mixture containing one of which or two of which or more than two kinds. 
 After being taken in the form of live bacterial cell, it is contemplated that (intestines) effect grown can be produced in vivo.Through Overheating Treatment
Bacterial cell (for example, 0.1ml samples are obtained when the suspension (dispersion soln) from the bifidobacterium cells through Overheating Treatment is middle,
And when being cultivated under anaerobic in the petri diss for the culture medium that can be grown containing Bifidobacterium, do not form bifid
Bacillus bacterium colony) and preferably, because need not consider that Bifidobacterium can not easily survive in the presence of oxygen, therefore the present invention
Medicament can be used for the application of wider range. 
 Specifically, the Bifidobacterium of the non-living cell form through Overheating Treatment is particularly preferred.It is assumed that work as bifid
When the cell of bacillus is through Overheating Treatment, the change such as structure of bifidobacterium cells, and contribute to anticaries action, prevention periodontosis
Effect and treat the material of effect of periodontosis and be easily exposed. 
 On the condition of heat treatment, for example, heating-up temperature is usually 60 to 300 DEG C, preferably 60 to 200 DEG C, more preferably 60
It is further excellent to 150 DEG C, further preferred 60 to 140 DEG C, further preferred 60 to 130 DEG C, further preferred 60 to 120 DEG C
Select 60 to 110 DEG C, further preferred 60 to 100 DEG C, further preferred 70 to 100 DEG C, further preferred 80 to 100 DEG C, especially
It is preferred that 85 to 95 DEG C. 
 Heating-up temperature is preferably 60 DEG C or higher than 60 DEG C, because the living cells of Bifidobacterium is killed.In addition, heating temperature
Degree is preferably 300 DEG C or less than 300 DEG C, because to keep Bifidobacterium not to be carbonized. 
 Heat treatment time is usually 0.01 to 120 minute, preferably 0.015 to 60 minute, more preferably 0.02 to 40 minute, is entered
One step preferably 0.025 to 30 minute, further preferred 0.03 to 25 minute, particularly preferred 0.03 to 20 minute. 
 Heat treatment time is preferably 0.01 minute or more long, because the living cells of Bifidobacterium is killed.In addition, at heat
The reason time is preferably 120 minutes or shorter, because living cells can be killed effectively, while prevents thermal denaturation. 
 When being heat-treated in low temperature range (60 to 100 DEG C), optimal heat treatment time can be such as 0.2 to 120
Minute, preferably 0.2 to 60 minute, more preferably 0.2 to 40 minute, further preferred 0.2 to 30 minute, further preferred 0.2 to
25 minutes, particularly preferred 0.2 to 20 minute. 
 When being heat-treated in high temperature range (100 to 300 DEG C), optimal heat treatment time is such as 0.01 to 0.5 point
Clock, preferably 0.015 to 0.5 minute, more preferably 0.02 to 0.5 minute, further preferred 0.025 to 0.5 minute, particularly preferably
0.03 to 0.5 minute. 
 For example, the heat treatment of Bifidobacterium is carried out 15 minutes preferably at 90 DEG C. 
 Heat treatment method is not particularly limited.For example, gained bacterial cell can be killed using heat in predefined conditions
Bacterium device (such as board-like sterilizer, tubular type sterilizer, direct heating type sterilizer or the tank with chuck) heating. 
 The Bifidobacterium of the effect to obtain anticaries action, prevent the effect of periodontosis and treat periodontosis must be taken
Amount is using preferred order as such as 10 8 It is more than individual cell/day, 10 8 To 10 12 Individual cell/day, 5 × 10 8 To 5 × 10 11 Individual cell/day,
10 9 To 10 11 Individual cell/day, 5 × 10 9 To 5 × 10 10 Individual cell/day, 6 × 10 9 To 4 × 10 10 Individual cell/day or 7 × 10 9 To 3
×10 10 Individual cell/day.The amount is more preferably 8 × 10 9 To 2 × 10 10 , further preferred 9 × 10 9 To 2 × 10 10 Individual cell/day. 
 In the above range, easily and actually obtain anticaries action, prevent periodontosis effect and treatment periodontosis
Effect.In this respect, medicament (caries preventive agent, the medicament for preventing periodontosis and for treating periodontosis of the present invention is found
Medicament) be that there is anticaries action and prevent periodontosis and treat the component of periodontosis, i.e. active component.The present invention
The application target of medicament is unrestricted, as long as it is the form that effect can be presented. 
 Because the medicament of the present invention has few side effect, the medicament of the present invention can continuously be taken.To be prevented
Dental caries effect, the effect of prevention periodontosis and the effect for treating periodontosis, the intake time of Bifidobacterium of the present invention is such as 2 to 10
Week, 2 to 8 weeks, 3 to 7 weeks, 3.5 to 6.5 weeks or 4 to 6 weeks.Intake the time be preferably 3.5 to 6.5 week, further preferred 4 to 6
Week. 
 When the intake time of Bifidobacterium is in range above, anticaries action, prevention tooth are obtained easily and actually
The effect of all diseases and the effect for treating periodontosis.Specifically, Bifidobacterium is preferably with 10 8 Amount more than individual cell/day is continuous
Using surrounding or more long, and it is highly preferred that Bifidobacterium with 10 10 Amount continuous use surrounding or more long more than individual cell/day. 
 The medicament of the present invention can be used alone, and can also by mix medicament and another component of the present invention and
Used in the form of preventing decayed tooth composition, the composition for preventing periodontosis or the composition for treating periodontosis.The present invention
Medicament amount in the composition optionally can be determined depending on purpose, application, form, preparation, symptom, body weight etc.. 
 Although the invention is not restricted to this, the medicament of the present invention can be relative to the total amount of composition with 0.01 to 99%
(w/w), preferably 0.1 to 90% (w/w) amount includes in the composition.It is further preferred that 0.1 to 50% (w/ can be contained
W) medicament of the present invention of amount.Because equivalent within the range when, intake (giving) become easy. 
 The medicament or composition of the present invention can be with oral or parenteral (intramuscular, subcutaneous, intravenous, suppository form, warp
Skin etc.) mode give.Can take the present invention medicament or composition subject can be adult or can be baby or
Old man.The medicament or composition of the present invention can also be given extremely sensitive to oligosaccharides or sugar alcohol without by sensitivity effects
People. 
 Except known action is (as improved diarrhoea, improving constipation, prevention or treatment opportunistic bacterium infection and pathogenic microorganism sense
Dye, suppression are harmful to the growth of enteric bacteria, produce B family vitamin, promote digestion and absorption, improvement host's intestines by reducing lactose
Road immune system and improvement allergy) beyond, medicament of the invention or composition also have anticaries action, prevent the work of periodontosis
With the effect with treatment periodontosis. 
 Specifically, composition of the invention can be used in the form of drug products and both food or beverage.It is expected that
The composition of the present invention is being directly administered in the form of drug products or (is such as being used for directly as the food for special diet purposes
The food for the healthy purposes specified) or nutraceutical anticaries action, the effect for preventing periodontosis and treatment periodontal are presented when taking
The effect of disease.Include modified milk powder, liquid food, for disease for the food of special diet purposes and the example of nutraceutical
The food of people, baby food (including powdered infant formula food), the food (including milk powder) for making women lactation, supplement
Food and condensed food. 
 When medicament of the invention as drug products in use, method of administration is for example with pharmaceutical preparation (such as tablet, coating
Tablet, capsule, particulate, powder, solution, syrup or emulsion) form oral administration.Oral formulations containing anticariogenic agent composition
The pharmaceutical preparation and/or process for the bacterial cell for being used as key agents can be prepared by adjuvant known to being used according to normal method
The product of the present invention of processing obtains, and the known adjuvant can be commonly used for the adjuvant of field of pharmaceutical preparations, such as dispersant, figuration
Agent, adhesive, disintegrant, lubricant, colouring agent, flavor enhancement, solubilizer, suspending agent and covering. 
 That is, because the oral formulations containing the pharmaceutical composition contain the medicament of the present invention, make except known
With (as improved diarrhoea, improving constipation, prevention or treating opportunistic bacterium infection and cause pathogeny imcrobe infection, suppress harmful enteron aisle
The growth of bacterium, produce B family vitamin, by reduce lactose promote digestion and absorb, improve host intestine immune system and
Improve allergy) beyond, the oral formulations also have the function that anticaries action, prevention periodontosis and the effect for treating periodontosis.Cause
This, the oral formulations are effective for various diseases, such as diarrhoea, constipation, opportunistic bacterium infection, cause pathogeny imcrobe infection and by having
Disease caused by evil enteric bacteria growth, and effective for carious tooth, periodontosis etc.. 
 Specifically, medicament of the invention preferably with the composition forms of dispersant use.The example of dispersant
Including lactoprotein (such as casein), soybean protein, peptide, amino acid, starch, dextrin, xylan, oligosaccharides, carbohydrate (glucose, breast
Sugar, sucrose, galactolipin and maltose) and sugar alcohol (trehalose, xylitol, antierythrite, isomaltulose, trehalulose
(trehalulose) and xylose).Dextrin is particularly preferred dispersant.Because cause using dextrin as dispersant can
To carry out powder granulation, readily processing and the long-term storage during scattered, dissolving etc.. 
 Dispersant, particularly dextrin, preferably particulate form.Because particulate is high soluble and can be with intact
Ground is packed, therefore composition can be divided into fraction.In addition, particulate has following advantage in preparation：Composition can be by
Accurately part, without merely because composition is fallen on packaging material and Mass Distribution change occurs. 
 In the present compositions, the mass ratio of medicament of the invention and dispersant is preferably 1:100 to 1:2, it is more excellent
Select 1:100 to 1:10, further preferred 1:100 to 1:20.Because when the medicament of the present invention and the mass ratio of dispersant exist
When in the range of being somebody's turn to do, medicament of the invention can be effectively dispersed. 
 When for example orally giving the present composition of the medicament containing the present invention and dispersant (particularly dextrin), this
The composition of invention can be administered in the form of package body, and the package body by the composition of the present invention by being divided into the small portion of scheduled volume
Divide and the part is packaged in packaging material and obtain.That is, the composition of the present invention can be in the form of package body
Administration, the package body contain the present composition and packaging material of scheduled volume, and wherein composition is packaged in packaging material.
In the present invention, it is preferred to which each single dose is separately packaged, or the part of two or more packagings corresponds to once
Dosage.Each dosage is particularly preferred by independent packaging. 
 , can be by the present invention when the medicament or composition of the present invention are included in preventing decayed tooth food compositions and had no side effect
Medicament or composition be added to various food and beverage (milk, soft drink, cultured milk, Yoghourt, cheese, bread, biscuit, cracknel,
Pizza crust, modified milk powder, liquid food, the food for patient, baby food (including powdered infant formula food), use
In food (including milk powder), nutraceutical for making women lactation etc.) in, then take.The medicament and composition of the present invention can be with
According to the normal method use for normal food composition, for example, by directly use medicament or composition or with other food
Or food component is mixed to use. 
 Its state can be any general use state of food and beverage, such as solid (powder, particulate), paste, liquid
Body or suspension.In this form, medicament of the invention can be taken under without psychological problems. 
 The present invention medicament and composition can also with containing have no side effect water, protein, carbohydrate, fat or
The composition forms of oil, vitamin, mineral matter, organic acid, organic base, fruit juice, flavor enhancement etc. use. 
 The example of protein includes animal and plant albumen, such as whole milk powder, skimmed milk power, partially skimmed milk powder, junket egg
In vain, whey powder, lactalbumin, whey protein concentrate, separation lactalbumin, alpha-casein, beta-casein, κ-casein,
Beta lactoglobulin, α-lactalbumin, lactoferrin, soybean protein, the albumen of hen egg, meat albumen and its hydrolysate；And come
The component of milk is come from, such as butter, milk minerals, cream, whey, nonprotein nitrogen, sialic acid, phosphatide and lactose.It can use
The protein having no side effect through all kinds for drug products and food and beverage and the component from milk.May be used also
To use the combination of two or more components. 
 The example of carbohydrate includes carbohydrate, modified starch (dextrin and soluble starch, Britain starch (British
Starch), oxidized starch, starch ester, starch ether etc.) and dietary fiber. 
 The example of fat or oil includes animal tallow and oil, such as lard, fish oil, fatty and oily, its hydrogen separated therefrom
Change fat and oil and its transesterification it is fatty and oily；And vegetable oil, such as palm oil, safflower oil, corn oil, vegetable seed
Oil, coconut oil, the oil separated therefrom, the oil of its hydrogenation and the oil of its transesterification. 
 The example of vitamin includes vitamin A, carrotene, B family vitamin, vitamin C, D family vitamins, vitamin E, K
Family vitamin, citrin, CoenzymeQ10, nicotinic acid, niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin, inositol, choline and folic acid. 
 The example of mineral matter includes calcium, potassium, magnesium, sodium, copper, iron, manganese, zinc and selenium. 
 The example of organic acid includes malic acid, citric acid, lactic acid and tartaric acid.Can use have been used to drug products
And all organic acids having no side effect of food and beverage.The combination of two or more components can also be used. 
 When the medicament of the present invention is provided in the form of food or pharmaceutical preparation, its preparation method can be the skill of this area
Method known to art personnel.Those skilled in the art can be prepared by being combined as following steps desired food or
Pharmaceutical preparation：The step of Bifidobacterium or treated product of the present invention are mixed with other components, forming step, sterilizing step
Suddenly, fermentation step, calcination stepses, drying steps, cooling step, granulation step, encapsulation step etc.. 
 The medicament of the present invention can be also used for health functional food or patient's food.In view of in Japan become with external
Gesture, and in the case where the existing system for considering the food with being used for specific health purpose is consistent, have built up for health care
The system of functional food, it is applied not only to normal food, and for the food of the forms such as tablet, capsule.Health functional food
Food (specification reference model) including the food (license type individually) for specific health purpose and with trophic function.It is expected that work as
The food for special diet purposes of the medicament containing the present invention or composition is directly taken as specific health purpose
Food or with trophic function food when, anticaries action is represented. 
 
 
 [embodiment] 
 [embodiment 1] 
 (preparation of Bifidobacterium) 
 At 37 DEG C, bifidobacterium OLB6378 is cultivated in the anaerobism EG culture mediums with the composition shown in table 1
Bacterial strain (registration number：NITE BP-31) overnight. 
 [table 1] 
 
 
 
 
 
 Component 
 The grams of every liter of culture medium 
 
 
 Meat extract 
 2.6 
 
 
 PrPC peptone 
 10 
 
 
 Yeast extract 
 5 
 
 
 Disodium hydrogen phosphate 
 4 
 
 
 Lactose 
 1.5 
 
 
 Soluble starch 
 0.5 
 
 
 CYSTINE 
 0.2 
 
 
 L-cysteine hydrochloride 
 0.5 
 
 
 Defoamer (silicone) 
 0.2 
 
 
 Polysorbate 80 
 0.5 
 
 
 It is total 
 25 
 
 
 
 
 
 After culture, remaining nutrient media components is water-washed away by the way that cell is collected by centrifugation, and with sterile.Then, by cell
Freeze-drying.The cell obtained herein is used as untreated OLB6378 cell powders. 
 [embodiment 2] 
 (preparation of medicament of the present invention) 
 A) preparation of the freeze-dried powder of the OLB6378 cells through Overheating Treatment 
 By stirring the untreated OLB6378 cell powders (viable count obtained in embodiment 1 of 180g amount
For 3.9 × 10 11 Cfu/g) it is suspended in completely in the raw water that 2800ml is adjusted at 45 DEG C.Then, suspension is heated, is stirred simultaneously
Suspension is mixed, 15 minutes is maintained at 90 DEG C and cools down.The suspension of the cell of the heating obtained is freeze-dried, and
Obtain the freeze-dried powder of OLB6378 cells of the 156g through Overheating Treatment.When on MRS agar plates culture through Overheating Treatment
During OLB6378 cells, bifidobacterium cells living are not observed.In addition, the OLB6378 through Overheating Treatment obtained in 156g
In the freeze-dried powder of cell, about in the presence of 7.02 × 10 13 Individual bifidobacterium cells (3.9 × 10 11 Cfu/g × 180g=7.02 ×
10 13 cfu).The number of this heating cells represents viable count (cfu). 
 B) preparation of medicament of the present invention 
 By the freeze-dried powder of the OLB6378 cells through Overheating Treatment of 120g amount and 2880g dextrin particulate (loose paddy chemistry
Society) it is sufficiently mixed, and mixture is divided into 1g part.Therefore the medicament of the present invention is made.In the medicament of the present invention, about
In the presence of 1.8 × 10 10 Individual bifidobacterium cells (7.02 × 10 13 Cfu/156g × 120g/3000g=1.8 × 10 10 cfu).This adds
The number of hot cell represents viable count (cfu). 
 [comparative example 1] 
 (preparation of placebo) 
 Prepared by the way that 3000g dextrin particulate (loose paddy chemistry society) to be divided into 1g part come the medicament of alternative embodiment 2
The placebo of comparative example 1. 
 [test example 1] 
 In test example 1, the group that will receive the subject of the medicament of embodiment 2 is referred to as " medicament group of the present invention ", and will
The group for receiving the subject of the placebo of comparative example 1 is referred to as " placebo ".According to following subject's selection standards and subject
Exclusion standard is two group selections, 30 subjects altogether.15 subjects are assigned to medicament group of the present invention, and will
Remaining 15 subjects are assigned to placebo.The subject of two groups receives the medicament of embodiment 2 or the peace of comparative example 1 daily
Console agent twice.It is five weeks to take in the time.Two groups are assessed as described in following assessment entry. 
 <Subject's selection standard> 
 Subject's selection standard is as follows.Selection meets following A) to E) in whole subject. 
 A) the women of 20 to 40 years old. 
 B) breakfast, lunch and dinner are eaten within general one day. 
 C) lip/cheek surfaces can measure more than four (according to FDI numbering systems) in following six teeth：16
(first molar on the right of the upper jaw)；21 (upper jaw left side central incisors)；24 (upper jaw left side frist premolars)；36 (the lower jaw left sides first
Grind one's teeth in sleep)；41 (central incisors on the right of lower jaw)；And 44 (frist premolar on the right of lower jaw).FDI numberings are 17,15,11,22,25,
37th, 35,31,42 and 45 tooth provides as the alternative tooth of six representative teeth. 
 D) subject of carious tooth and periodontal disease therapeutic is not carried out with upper teeth and with 20 in filler test. 
 E the purpose of test and whole subjects that illustrates and can agree to of content) are obtained.Fully understand ground voluntarily ginseng
Subject with testing and providing the written consent book for participating in test. 
 <Subject Exclusion Criteria> 
 Subject Exclusion Criteria is as follows.Exclude to meet following a) at least one people in j). 
 A) carious tooth (more than C3) or serious periodontosis are diagnosed as in filler test. 
 B) diabetes, chronic kidney disease, gastrointestinal dysfunction, tuberculosis, malignant tumour etc. are suffered from and receives any medicine. 
 C) participate in or be intended to participate in another test of drug products or food etc.. 
 D) five minutes salivary secretion amounts stimulated are 3.0ml or less. 
 E) pH value of the saliva stimulated is 6.2 or smaller. 
 F) removable bridge is used. 
 G) in filler test one month using/intake mouthwash, antibiotic or antibacterial agent or seen dentist. 
 H) food hypersenstivity. 
 I) it is pregnant during the test phase, plan is pregnant or the women of lactation. 
 J) dentist for being responsible for test judges to be insufficient as any other people of the subject of the test. 
 <Assess entry> 
 1. give birth to the ratio of dental caries bacterium 
 The ratio of raw dental caries bacterium is whether the medicament of the present invention has the index of anticaries action, and is that Streptococcus mutans exist
The ratio in streptococcus in saliva.That is, the ratio of raw dental caries bacterium is represented by below equation. 
 Ratio=(number of Streptococcus mutans/streptococcic number) × 100 of raw dental caries bacterium 
 The saliva sample that being collected after five minutes subjects for being subordinated to medicament group and placebo of the present invention stimulates (is chewed
The saliva secreted during chewing gum).The number of Streptococcus mutans and streptococcic number in saliva sample are measured by cultivation, and
And calculate the ratio of raw dental caries bacterium.Surrounding and the ratio of the raw dental caries bacterium of measurement in five weeks after taking in first day and starting intake.
By counting to work as a certain amount of warp is cultivated at 37 DEG C on Mitis-Salivarius (MS) agar plate under anaerobic
The bacterium colony that is formed during the saliva sample suitably diluted 48 hours is crossed to determine streptococcic number.Measure variation in an identical manner
Streptococcic number, but use the Mitis-Salivarius agar plates (MSB culture mediums) containing bacitracin (SIGMA). 
 2. gingival index 
 Gingival index is the finger whether medicament of the present invention has the function that the effect for preventing periodontosis and treating periodontosis
Mark.Gingival index passes through method (the Periodontal disease in pregnancy.Lee described in non-patent document 1
H,Silness J.,Acta Odontologica Scandinavica1963 21:533-51) measure.Specifically, meat is used
Tongue surface of the eye observation with six predetermined teeth, lip/cheek surfaces, center and distal surface (amounting to 24 surfaces),
And gingival index is counted by following standard and method.In this respect, six predetermined teeth are first on the right of the upper jaw
Grind one's teeth in sleep, on the right of upper jaw left side central incisor, upper jaw left side frist premolar, lower jaw left side first molar, lower jaw central incisor and under
Frist premolar on the right of jaw. 
 [standard] 
 0：Clinically normal gums. 
 1：Minor irritation and gingival color slight change, but when detecting inside the non-bleeding of gingival margin. 
 2：Medium inflammation, gums swelling is shinny and rubescent, and when detecting inside gingival margin bleeding. 
 3：Severe inflammation, hence it is evident that rubescent and swelling, spontaneous bleeding and ulcer. 
 [method] 
 After five minutes after subject collects the saliva sample (saliva secreted during chew gum) stimulated, from dentist
The problem of and Diagnosis record calculate gingival index.Five weeks after screening day (starting to take in the previous moon) and starting intake
Gingival index is calculated by below equation. 
 (gingival index)=(dentulous gums assess total score)/(number of the dental surface of test) 
 3. plaque index 
 Plaque index is the finger whether medicament of the present invention has the function that the effect for preventing periodontosis and treating periodontosis
Mark.Plaque index passes through method (the Comparative cleaning efficiency of described in non-patent document 2
manual and power brushing.Quigley H,Hein JN.,J Am Dent Ass 1962 65:26) measure.Tool
For body, the tongue surface with six predetermined teeth that detects by an unaided eye, lip/cheek surfaces, center and distal surface (amount to
24 surfaces), and plaque index is counted by following standard and method.In this respect, on six predetermined teeth are
On the right of jaw in first molar, upper jaw left side central incisor, upper jaw left side frist premolar, lower jaw left side first molar, lower jaw the right
Frist premolar on the right of incisor and lower jaw. 
 [standard] 
 0：Adhered to without bacterial plaque. 
 1：There is bacterial plaque point along gingival margin. 
 2：There is bacterial plaque line along gingival margin. 
 3：/ 3rd of bacterial plaque covering no more than the dental surface of gums side. 
 4：2/3rds of bacterial plaque covering no more than the dental surface of gums side. 
 5：More than 2/3rds of the dental surface of bacterial plaque covering gums side. 
 [method] 
 After five minutes after subject collects the saliva sample (saliva secreted during chew gum) stimulated, from dentist
The problem of and Diagnosis record calculate plaque index.Five weeks after screening day (starting to take in the previous moon) and starting intake
Plaque index is calculated by below equation. 
 (plaque index)=(dentulous bacterial plaque assess total score)/(number of the dental surface of test) 
 [result and discussion] 
 1. give birth to the ratio of dental caries bacterium 
 In medicament group of the present invention, the average proportions of raw dental caries bacterium first day in intake are 0.5, and the raw dental caries after four weeks
The average proportions of bacterium are substantially reduced to 0.2.In another aspect, in placebo, the average proportions of raw dental caries bacterium are being taken in
First day is 0.2, but the average proportions of raw dental caries bacterium and is not change significantly in after four weeks and is still 0.2. 
 The value of medicament group of the present invention and placebo is carried out into statistical analysis with the value between more described group (to be used in institute
State the gloomy rank tests of the Wei Ke compared between group (Wilcoxon rank-sum test), for compare in group intake the time before
The rank tests (Wilcoxon signed-rank test) of the gloomy tape symbols of Wei Ke of value afterwards).Therefore, the p value of first day is taken in
It is 0.218, and the p value after four weeks is 0.973. 
 2. gingival index 
 It is 0.13 in first day average gingival index of intake, and average gums refers to after five weeks in medicament group of the present invention
Digital display writes and is down to 0.04.On the other hand, it is 0.21 in first day average gingival index of intake in placebo, but after five weeks
Average gingival index do not substantially reduce, be 0.505. 
 The value of medicament group of the present invention and placebo is carried out into statistical analysis with the value between more described group (to be used in institute
State the gloomy rank tests of the Wei Ke compared between group, for compare in group intake the time before and after value the gloomy tape symbols of Wei Ke order
Examine).Therefore, the p value for screening day is 0.378, and the p value after five weeks is 0.065. 
 3. plaque index 
 It is 0.17 in first day average plaque index of intake, and average bacterial plaque refers to after five weeks in medicament group of the present invention
Number does not dramatically increase and is still 0.17.On the other hand, in placebo, it is in first day average plaque index of intake
0.17, but average plaque index is significantly increased to 0.33 after five weeks. 
 The value of medicament group of the present invention and placebo is carried out into statistical analysis with the value between more described group (to be used in institute
State the gloomy rank tests of the Wei Ke compared between group, for compare in group intake the time before and after value the gloomy tape symbols of Wei Ke order
Examine).Therefore, the p value for screening day is 0.849, and the p value after five weeks is 0.043. 
 As shown in the results, observe that raw dental caries bacterium ratio significantly reduces only in medicament group of the present invention, and in placebo
In do not observe.Thus, it is found that the medicament of the present invention has anticaries action. 
 In addition, observe that gingival index significantly reduces and what plaque index deteriorated prevents only in medicament group of the present invention, and
Do not observed in placebo.Thus, it is found that the medicament of the present invention has the function that to prevent periodontosis and treats periodontosis
Effect. 
 Although the present invention is described in detail using specific embodiment, those skilled in the art obviously may be used
Variations and modifications are carried out in the case of without departing substantially from the purpose of the present invention and category.The application is based on May 29th, 2015
The Japanese patent application (patent application the 2015-110743rd) of submission, and entire contents are herein incorporated by reference this
In invention. 
 [industrial applicibility] 
 According to the present invention it is possible to provide a kind of new caries preventive agent or preventing decayed tooth composition, it contains Bifidobacterium Bifidum and made without pair
With.It is furthermore possible to also provide it is a kind of be used for prevent periodontosis or the new medicament for treating periodontosis, its contain Bifidobacterium and
Have no side effect；Or the new compositions for preventing periodontosis or for treating periodontosis, it contains Bifidobacterium and made without pair
With.Bifidobacterium can reduce the ratio of raw dental caries bacterium in oral cavity, therefore can prevent and treat carious tooth.In addition, bifid bar
Bacterium can reduce the symptom of gingivitis and can reduce adhesion of the bacterial plaque to tooth.Therefore, Bifidobacterium can prevent and
Treat periodontosis. 
 Sequence table 
 <110>Meiji KK 
 <120>Caries preventive agent and preventing decayed tooth composition 
 <141> 2016-05-24 
 <150> JP2015/110743 
 <151> 2015-05-29 
 <160> 4 
 <170> SIPOSequenceListing 1.0 
 <210> 1 
 <211> 20 
 <212> DNA 
 <213> Bifidobacterium bifidum 
 <400> 1 
 ccacatgatc gcatgtgatt 20 
 <210> 2 
 <211> 19 
 <212> DNA 
 <213> Bifidobacterium bifidum 
 <400> 2 
 ccgaaggctt gctcccaaa 19 
 <210> 3 
 <211> 20 
 <212> DNA 
 <213> Bifidobacterium longum 
 <400> 3 
 ttccagttga tcgcatggtc 20 
 <210> 4 
 <211> 20 
 <212> DNA 
 <213> Bifidobacterium longum 
 <400> 4 
 gggaagccgt atctctacga 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
