
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be used to diagnose and treat the purposes of the AIMP2DX2 of cancer 
 
 Invention field 
 The present invention relates to the varient of the AIMP2 of called after AIMP2DX2, the specifically expressing  disappearance exon  2 in cancer cells, and be used to diagnose and treat the purposes of cancer. 
 
 
 Correlation technique describes in detail 
 The mortality ratio of cancer continues to increase in the world.Although exist much about the research of cancer, it is still the major cause of global mortality ratio. 
 People need a kind of simply quick diagnosis method for cancer to improve the effect of for example operation of methods of treatment, radiotherapy, chemotherapy or routine treatment. 
 Be necessary that the marker of developing at particular cancers provides a kind of effective methods of treatment with diagnosing cancer and to particular cancers.It has been widely used in the treatment cancer at nearest 50 years as after the cancer therapy drug first at CT.This treatment has severe side effect, and for example, its non-specific action causes strong toxicity in comparing the cell of other organ with quick cell fission rate with cancer cells.In order to overcome the resistance of side effect and those known anticancer drugs, cancer therapy drug is developed in existing many researchs, and the cancer specific mark thing specific action in these cancer therapy drugs is in be converted into the tumour cell that forms in the cancer by normal cell.The gene of finding to be specific to cancer cells in the cancer targeted therapies is very important, and the cancer targeted therapies is considered to make toxicity of anticancer agents to be reduced to minimum method. 
 In this case, the present inventor has carried out furtheing investigate the varient of having developed a kind of novel cancer specific molecule and therefore having found the AIMP2 of  disappearance exon  2, be AIMP2DX2, its specifically expressing is in cancer cells and can be used as the marker of diagnosing cancer so that more believable result to be provided.In addition, it has been observed by the present inventors that to be specific to the proteinic antibody of AIMP2DX2, or be specific to the siRNA (siRNA) of AIMP2DX2 mRNA and the specific therapy method that antisense oligonucleotide can be used to cancer cells. 
 
 
 Therefore, the purpose of this invention is to provide AIMP2DX2 protein, the  proteinic exon  2 of this protein disappearance AIMP2 zone. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of nucleic acid molecule, and this nucleic acid molecule comprises the proteinic nucleotide sequence of coding AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of recombinant vectors, and this recombinant vectors carries the proteinic nucleotide sequence of coding AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of transformant, and this transformant is transformed by the described recombinant vectors that carries the proteinic nucleotide sequence of coding AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides preparation AIMP2DX2 method of protein, and described method comprises cultivates above-mentioned transformant. 
 Another object of the present invention provides specific action in the proteinic antibody of AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of cancer diagnosing kit, and this test kit comprises and is specific to the proteinic antibody of AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of method of diagnosing cancer. 
 Another object of the present invention provides the method for a kind of AIMP2DX2 of screening protein as cancer markers, this method comprise (a) provide analyze with sample and (b) detection come from the expression of the proteinic nucleotide sequence of coding AIMP2DX2 of sample. 
 Another object of the present invention provides the siRNA nucleic acid molecule that is specific to AIMP2DX2 protein mRNA. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of cancer, comprises the siRNA nucleic acid molecule that is specific to AIMP2DX2 protein mRNA. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of treatment method for cancer, comprises to use the siRNA nucleic acid molecule that is specific to AIMP2DX2 protein mRNA. 
 Another object of the present invention provides the antisense oligonucleotide with the proteinic mRNA regional complementarity of AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of cancer, comprises the antisense oligonucleotide with the proteinic mRNA regional complementarity of AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of treatment method for cancer, comprises the antisense oligonucleotide of using with the proteinic mRNA regional complementarity of AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides the method for the proteinic mRNA of a kind of AIMP2DX2 of screening as cancer markers, comprises primer or probe that use can be distinguished proteinic mRNA of AIMP2 and the proteinic mRNA of AIMP2DX2. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of method of screening of medicaments, described medicine can suppress the formation of heterodimer between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein, comprises following steps: (a) make test substances and comprise AIMP2DX2 protein and contact with the proteinic composition of AIMP2; (b) determine whether this test substances has suppressed the formation of heterodimer between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein, the wherein said test substances that has suppressed heterodimer formation between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein is evaluated as cancer therapy drug. 
 Another object of the present invention provides a kind of method of screening of medicaments, described medicine can suppress the formation of heterodimer between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein, comprises following steps: (a) make test substances and comprise AIMP2DX2 protein and contact with the proteinic composition of AIMP2; (b) determine whether this test substances has suppressed the formation of heterodimer between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein, the wherein said test substances that has suppressed the formation of heterodimer between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein is evaluated as cancer therapy drug. 
 
 
 The accompanying drawing summary 
 Fig. 1 a-1e represent AIMP2 TGF-signal conduction and with the interaction of Smad2/3 in functional importance.Compare AIMP2
           + /+ And AIMP2
           /- (Fig. 1 a), bacterium colony forms (Fig. 1 b), cell cycle and carry out effect in the nuclear translocation (Fig. 1 d) of (Fig. 1 c) and Smad2 and Smad3 in cell proliferation to TGF-β for MEFs.In Fig. 1 a, cell was cultivated 6 hours with the TGF- β  1 of the concentration indicated (0,2 and 4ng/ml).The thymidine amount of participating in is designated as 1 in the untreated cell, and these values are the mean value of four independent experiments.In Fig. 1 b, AIMP2
           + /+ And AIMP2
           /- MEFs (14.5 days) cultivated 4 days in the presence of TGF-β (2ng/ml), fixed and bacterium colony develops with Giemsa staining with Paraformaldehyde 96.In Fig. 1 c, MEFs handled 24 hours with TGF-β, and G0/G1 phase cell proportion detects with flow cytometer.In Fig. 1 d, MEFs handled 1 hour with TGF-β (2ng/ml).Smad2 and Smad3 and their specific antibody react and develop with the antibody of puting together FITC (fluorescein isothiocyanate) (green).Nucleus dyes with PI (propidium iodide) (redness).In Fig. 1 e, the interaction of AIMP2 and Smad2 and Smad3 detects by the co-immunoprecipitation of use at the antibody of Smad2 and Smad3.
         
 Fig. 2 a-2f represents the working mechanism of AIMP2 in the conduction of TGF-signal.In Fig. 2 a, the protein that the A549 cell collects and extracts in the time of indicating after TGF-β (2ng/ml) handles precipitates with anti-Smad2 or Smad3 antibody mediated immunity, and the co-precipitation of AIMP2 is determined with anti-AIMP2 antibody.WCL represents the western blotting (Western blots) of full cell lysate.In Fig. 2 b, by TGF-β target gene expression among the DU145 of contrast of RT-PCR mensuration and AIMP2 transfection, p15, p21 and PAI-1.Fig. 2 c has confirmed at AIMP2
           /- The effect of AIMP2 in the phosphorylation of Smad2 among the MEFs.In Fig. 2 d, the different structure territory of Smad2 (Mad-homeodomain, MH1, MH2 and connecting arm) is expressed as the LexA fusion rotein and forms by the blue colonies in the yeast X-gal medium and detect the interaction that itself and B42 merge AIMP2.In Fig. 2 e, the interaction of the dependence TGF-β of Smad2 and TGF-beta receptor is measured by co-immunoprecipitation.At 37 ℃ down with TGF-β processing MEFs and before immunoprecipitation, under 8 ℃ temperature, cultivate.The TGF-beta receptor combines by using the immunoblotting monitoring of anti-T β RI antibody with Smad2's.Fig. 2 f has shown that time course and the TGF-β of the Smad2 (p-Smad2) of total Smad2, phosphorylation handle the back at AIMP2
           + /+ And AIMP2
           /- AIMP2 level among the MEFs.
         
 Fig. 3 a-3f represents the differential expression of AIMP2 and the generation of its  disappearance exon  2 form.(Fig. 3 a) and flow cytometry (Fig. 3 b) AIMP2 level relatively in multiple cancerous cell line by western blot analysis.A549, NCI-H460 ,-H322 and H290 are lung cancer cell lines and DU145 and HCT116 are respectively prostate cancer and colon carcinoma cell line.In Fig. 3 b, " feminine gender " shows the DU145 that only handles with secondary antibody.Each clone is analyzed 2000 cells.In Fig. 3 c, right RT-PCR comes comparison AIMP2 transcriptional level by using different primers.The transcript of crossing over exon 3-4 and 1-3 produces (referring to Fig. 8 b) by primer to 6/7 and 1/5 respectively.GAPDH goes up the sample contrast.The primer of noticing the transcript that is used for exons 1-3 is to having produced less AIMP2 transcript.This less transcript is the selectivity splicing form of the AIMP2 (AIMP2DX2) of disappearance exon 2.This transcript only hangs down in the AIMP2 clone certainly by the RT-PCR (referring to Fig. 8 b) that uses primer DX2-F and another to be specific to the primer (DX2-B) of    exons    1 and 3 indirection point sequences and generates.In Fig. 3 d, after hatching 2 hours, detect TGF-β dependent form inducing action and AIMP2 nuclear translocation by immunofluorescence staining with TGF-β.In Fig. 3 e, by [
           3 H] thymidine participates in (n=4) relatively TGF-β effect in indicating the propagation of cell.In Fig. 3 f, after hatching 2 hours, compare the TGF-β dependent form inducing action of target gene p21 and PAI-1 by RT-PCR with TGF-β.
         
 Fig. 4 a-4h has confirmed the effect of AIMP2DX2 to the AIMP2 cell stability.In Fig. 4 a, the DX2 transfection is to handling with TGF-β or handle with TGF-β among 2 hours the DU145, and with Western blotting detection AIMP2 level.The expression of c-Myc, DX2 and GAPDH (contrast) is monitored by RT-PCR.In Fig. 4 b, DX2 or empty carrier transfection are to DU145, and its effect in the cell growth-inhibiting of TGF-β dependent form participates in (n=4) by thymidine and monitors.In Fig. 4 c, AIMP2F and-interaction between DX2 measures by previously described yeast two-hybrid assay method (Rho, people such as S.B., PNAS.USA, 96:4488-93 (1999)).In Fig. 4 d, AIMP2F and-DX2 [
           35 S] methionine(Met) exists down and synthesizes by external translation, with GST-AIMP2F or-CDK2 (contrast) mixes, and precipitates with Triptide-agarose (glutathione-Sepharose).Sedimentary protein separates with SDS-PAGE and detects with radioautography.In Fig. 4 e, AIMP2F or-DX2 and the interaction (FBP that merges conjugated protein; Kim, people such as M.J. Nat.Genet.34:330-336:2003) measure with the yeast two-hybrid assay method with Smad2.In Fig. 4 f, in the H322 cell that produces DX2, pass through to use the effect of the Western blotting monitoring proteasome inhibitor ALLN (50 μ M, 4 hours) of anti-AIMP2 antibody to the DX2 level of total length (F) and AIMP2.The DX2 form is determined by the common migration of synthetic counterpart external with it (counterpart) on gel.In Fig. 4 g, the increase of the AIMP2 that handles through ALLN (20 μ M, 2 hours) is also by using the immunofluorescence staining of anti-AIMP2 antibody to show in the H322 cell.In Fig. 4 h, the DX2 transfection of myc mark is to the DU145 of ALLN processing.Then, AIMP2 precipitates with anti-AIMP2 antibody mediated immunity, and omnipresenceization (ubiquitinated) AIMP2 molecule is by using the immunoblotting monitoring of anti-ubiqutin antibody (Ubi).
         
 Fig. 5 a-5e represents the destruction in regulation and control of AIMP2DX2 cell growth and the TGF-β conduction.In Fig. 5 a, DX2 (or empty carrier) transfection is to MEFs and monitor the effect of its cell growth.Cell and bacterium colony develop by light microscopy (top) and Giemsa staining (bottom) respectively.Fig. 5 b code displaying is specific to the nucleotide sequence of the coding siRNAs of DX2.In Fig. 5 c, made up each carrier of expressing  siRNAs  3, its transfection to H322 and H460 clone, and is estimated its effect to AIMP2 level and Smad2 phosphorylation.In Fig. 5 d, No. 4 or No. 5 siRNA transfections are to H322, and with the effect of its pair cell death (left side) of TGF-beta determination and cell cycle arrest (right side).In Fig. 5 e, import the siRNA (si-DX2) of target AIMP2DX2 among the H322 and its restraining effect to the DX2 transcript is measured with RT-PCR (top).Si-DX2 does not influence total length AIMP2 transcript as with as shown in the RT-PCR of the transcript of exon 3-4.Si-DX2 is also measured by Western blotting (bottom) the effect of Smad2 phosphorylation and AIMP2 expression.Si-DX2 also uses the p-Smad2 immunofluorescence staining (Fig. 5 f) that uses the H322 cell, TGF-β dependent form report sub-analysis method (Fig. 5 g) and the cessation of growth cessation (Fig. 5 h) under the 3TP promotor to measure to the restitution of TGF-β conduction.In Fig. 5 f, p-Smad2 and nucleus dye with secondary antibody (green) of puting together FITC and PI (redness) respectively after TGF-β handles 30 minutes.Notice that p-Smad2 increases and by the localized nuclear of si-DX2 transfection. 
 Fig. 6 a-6f represents getting in touch of AIMP2 and lung cancer formation.In Fig. 6 a, benzene-(α)-pyrene intraperitoneal is being administered to AIMP2
           + /+ And AIMP2
           +/- The monitoring lung tumor forms in the timed interval behind the mouse.The number of the sacrificed mouse of " N " representative.In Fig. 6 b, total RNAs separates from the normal and tumor region of patients with lung cancer, and carries out RT-PCR with the special primer of DX2-.Same patient's (representing with code name) normal and tumor tissues carries out RT-PCR (Fig. 6 c) with anti-AIMP2 antibody.
         
 Fig. 7 represents the mensuration of the Smad2 structural domain relevant with the AIMP2 interaction.We will the encode cDNAs of AIMP2 or CDK2 is connected to EcoRI and the XhoI site of pGEX4T-1, make they in E.coli BL21 (DE3), be expressed as gst fusion protein and according to manufacturer's specification sheets purifying they.[
           35 S] the following different deletion fragments that use TNT link coupled translation kits (Promega) to synthesize Smad2 by external translation of methionine(Met) existence.Be incorporated on the Triptide sepharose pearl gst fusion protein with [
           35 S] the Smad2 fragment of methionine mark hatches in binding buffer liquid, and this damping fluid is for containing the PBS damping fluid (pH7.4) of 0.5mM EDTA, 0.5mM phenylmethyl sulfonylfluoride (PMSF) and 1%TritonX-100.Binding mixture rotates overnight incubation and washes four times with the binding buffer liquid that contains 0.5%TritonX-100 under 4 ℃.After adding the SDS sample buffer, conjugated protein is by boiling wash-out and separating with the sds gel electrophoresis method.The segmental existence of Smad2 detects with radioautography.
         
 Fig. 8 a and 8b have shown the exon arrangement of people AIMP2 gene and the primer location on the AIMP2 cDNA.In Fig. 8 a, the AIMP2 gene indicates that by four codings the exon of polypeptide of size forms.Fig. 8 b is used to produce the primer location of the cDNA that crosses over the AIMP2 different zones and the synoptic diagram of sequence thereof. 
 Fig. 9 a to 9d has confirmed the expression decreased of AIMP2, and has generated AIMP2DX2 in cancerous cell line.In Fig. 9 a, in order to compare the AIMP2 level in the DX2-positive and the negative cells, we cultivate DU145 and H460 cell on a flat board, and carry out immunofluorescence dyeing with anti-AIMP2 antibody (green).These two clones are distinguished with p53 (redness) immunofluorescence dyeing, because the DU145 cell is because its sudden change high level expression p53, and the expressed p53 of H460 cell that contains wild type p53 maintains low-level.Handled these  cells  2 hours with TGF-β, fix with methyl alcohol then.In Fig. 9 b, for the effect of determining that AIMP2DX2 expresses AIMP2, with flow cytometer monitoring AIMP2 level.2 μ g/ml empty carriers or DX2 transfection to the DU145 cell, were cultivated 24 hours.Use then 70% ethanol fixed cell and with anti-AIMP2 antibody response, subsequently with the secondary antibody reaction of puting together FITC.In Fig. 9 c, AIMP2DX2 comes comparison to the effect of TGF-β dependent form cell cycle arrest with flow cytometry.Although G0/G1 phase cell proportion increases in the DU145 cell with the empty carrier transfection, in the DX2 cells transfected, do not increase.Black line and blue line show the cell of not using TGF-β processing and handling with TGF-β respectively.In Fig. 9 d, we more handle (contrast) with 10 μ M ALLN or with the AIMP2 level in 2 hours the H460 cell of 10 μ M ALLN processing." feminine gender " expression cell is only cultivated with the secondary antibody of puting together FITC. 
 Figure 10 a and 10b have shown the generation of AIMP2DX2 in cancerous lung tissue and the inhibition of AIMP2.In Figure 10 a, lung is from having injected the AIMP2 of benzopyrene (benzoypyrene)
           + /+ And AIMP2
           +/- Separate in the mouse, and RNAs separates to carry out RT-PCR to detect the generation of AIMP2DX2 from each lung.All lungs that generate DX2 have shown that the tumour in the lung forms (mark+).
         
 Figure 11 a and 11b have represented the expression of AIMP2DX2 in multiple cancerous tissue and cancerous cell line.In Figure 11 a, RT-PCR is used for detecting the expression of AIMP2DX2 in the liver cancer tissue.Figure 11 b has shown the expression of AIMP2DX2 in the multiple cancerous cell line. 
 Figure 12 shown with the wild-type mice of normal expression AIMP2 relatively, knocked out the indication of cancer in (AIMP2+/-) mouse.Figure 12 a detects the sudden change at AIMP2 gene place with southern blotting technique method (Southern blotting) and pcr analysis.Use primer f3 and r2 have produced the PCR fragment of 1223bp from mouse AIMP2 gene intron I zone, and hybridize used as the Sac I fragment of probe and mouse gene group DNA.The mixture of primer f6, r6 and pKOf2 is used for pcr analysis.Wild-type and mutant allele generate about 1.2 and 1.9kb PCR product respectively.The mutation effect that p AIMP2 is expressed is detected by the RNA blotting (Northernblotting) that uses AIMP2 cDNA probe and the use Western blotting (Westernblotting) at the multi-clone rabbit antibody of the people AIMP2 of purifying.In each swimming lane of RNA blotting (data not shown), all detect the Actin muscle of same amount.+ /+,+/-and-/-represent wild-type, heterozygous and homozygous mutant mice.The position that gene trap inserts is detected by the sequential analysis of the genomic dna of mutation allele.Figure 12 b shown AIMP2+/-ratio that tumour in mouse and the wild-type mice forms.Figure 12 c shown each AIMP2+/-average number of the tumour of mouse and wild-type mice.Figure 12 d shown AIMP2+/-papilloma that generates in mouse and the wild-type mice. 
 Figure 13 has shown and has carried the AIMP2DX2 expression carrier.In Fig. 13, abbreviation pCMV, BGH pA, f1 ori, neomycin, ampicillin, SV40, SV40 pA, ColE1, T7 and Sp6 represent human cytomegalic inclusion disease virus early promoter, Trobest polyadenylation signal, f1 replication orgin, neomycin resistance gene, ampicillin resistance gene, SV40 replication orgin, SV40 polyadenylation signal, ColE1 replication orgin, T7 viral promotors and Sp6 viral promotors at once respectively. 
 
 
 Detailed Description Of The Invention 
 The AIMP2 of called after AIMP2/JTV-1 or AIMP2 (ARS-interaction multifunctional protein 2) relates to one of protein of aminoacyl tRNA synthetase formation. 
 The present inventor points out that the gene break of AIMP2 is induced proto-oncogene (c-myc) thereby crossing to express causes because the hyper-proliferative of alveolar epithelial cells makes nascent dead mouse and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) induce AIMP2 to express and help its transporte to cells is examined to reduce c-myc (M.J.Kim, Deng the people, Nat.Genet.34:330-336 (2003)). 
 According to research before, it is new tumor suppression that the present inventor has disclosed AIMP2, plays unique effect by the direct interaction with Smad2/3 in TGF-β conduction. In addition, we have found to lack abnormal variation body (AIMP2DX2) specifically expressing in cancerous cell line and tissue of the AIMP2 of extron II. Use the AIMP2 special primer that makes up to confirm to lack the existence of the AIMP2 (AIMP2DX2) of extron II by RT-PCR. When primer is used for generating the AIMP2 cDNA that crosses over    exon    3 and 4, in cell, do not observe the minimizing of AIMP2 transcript, show that in western blot analysis the level of AIMP2 reduces. When we generated the transcript of  exons  1 to 3 with primer, we had not only obtained the transcript of expection size, also obtain less transcript. The sequence analysis of this little transcript shows the  exon  2 of 69 amino acid residues of its disappearance coding AIMP2. Use with the abutment sequence of    exons    1 and 3 and hang down the less transcript of clone generation of AIMP2 level as the RT-PCR analysis Explicit Expression of the primer of target, confirmed the generation as the AIMP2DX2 of AIMP2 variant. 
 In addition, the inventor has observed in transfection in the cell of AIMP2DX2 the AIMP2 level and has significantly reduced with TGF-β irrelevantly, and the generation that AIMP2DX2 is described has caused the forfeiture of AIMP2 activity. In addition, the AIMP2DX2 transfered cell has been improved the expression of c-myc and the growth retardation that TGF-β causes again occurred. We find that AIMP2DX2 and AIMP2 form the heterodimer of non-activity and occur closely related by reduction and the tumour of inducing the AIMP2 level. Research provides further proof AIMP2DX2 and lung cancer, liver cancer, cutaneum carcinoma, breast cancer, kidney and osteosarcoma etc. strong relevant in the body. 
 AIMP2DX2 protein preferably includes the AIMP2 amino acid sequence, and the  exon  2 zone of wherein said AIMP2 amino acid sequence is deleted. 
 AIMP2DX2 protein is the deletion mutation body of the AIMP2 of  disappearance exon  2. At several databases (312 amino acid version: registration number AAC50391.1 or GI:1215669; 320 amino acid version: registration number AAH13630.1, GI:15489023 and BC013630.1, from GenBank) and publication (312 amino acid version: Nicolaides, N.C., Kinzler, K.W. and Vogelstein, B.Analysis of the 5 ' region of PMS2 reveals heterogeneous transcripts and a novel overlapping gene, Genomics 29 (2): 329-334 (1995); 320 amino acid profiles: Generation and initial analysis of more than 15,000 full-length human and mouse cDNA sequences, Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A.99 (26): 16899-16903 (2002)) found the amino acid sequence of AIMP2 protein in. The amino acid sequence of AIMP2DX2 protein preferably comprise by as the AIMP2 amino acid sequence in the  disappearance exon  2 zone of aforementioned known array. Korean patent application 10-2003-0018424 discloses the treatment of cancer effect of AIMP2 protein, wherein be taught in this by merging with this paper in full with reference to it. 
 AIMP2DX2 protein comprises the variant of the  exon  2 disappearance of AIMP2 coordinate, for example, shown the same active function coordinate basically with wild type AIMP2, they are to obtain by displacement, deletion, insertion or its combination to AIMP2, or the same active functional deriv basically with wild type AIMP2, their modified physics and/or biochemical properties that has changed wild type AIMP2 have been shown. 
 The disappearance of  exon  2 refers among the AIMP2 that the amino acid sequence (corresponding amino acid 46-114) of crossing over the  exon  2 zone deleted to generate the deletion mutation body that can form with AIMP2 the AIMP2 of heterodimer by a part or whole part among the AIMP2 as described herein, thereby suppresses the normal function of AIMP2 and promote the degraded of AIMP2. Correspondingly, AIMP2DX2 protein of the present invention can comprise any variant of the AIMP2 of all or part of  exon  2 disappearance, wherein    exons    1,3 and/or 4 be natural or by amino acid replacement, deletion or insert adorned, as long as variant can form heterodimer to suppress the normal function of AIMP2 with AIMP2. AIMP2DX2 protein preferably comprises whole disappearances and the      complete exons      1,3 and 4 of  exon  2. AIMP2DX2 protein more preferably comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 AIMP2DX2 protein can comprise its natural acid sequence and have the variant of modification sequence, as long as variant keeps the activity of above-mentioned AIMP2DX2 protein. The AIMP2DX2 protein variants refers to that the sequence of protein is different from natural acid sequence, and they prepare by deletion, insertion, non-conservative or conservative substitution or their combination. Amino acid residue is carried out silence transformation can not damage protein active in fact, this is those skilled in the art well-known (H.Neurath, R.L.Hill, The Proteins, Academic Press, New York, 1979). These amino acid transformations include, but are not limited to Ala/Ser, Val/Ile, Asp/Glu, Thr/Ser, Ala/Gly, Ala/Thr, Ser/Asn, Ala/Val, Ser/Gly, Thy/Phe, Ala/Pro, Lys/Arg, Asp/Asn, Leu/Ile, Leu/Val, Ala/Glu and Asp/Gly. 
 In addition, AIMP2DX2 protein can comprise posttranslational modification, for example phosphorylation, sulphation, propylene acidifying, glycosylation, methylates and farnesylation. 
 AIMP2DX2 protein and variant thereof can from natural origin, separate obtain, by synthetic (Merrifleld, Amer.Chem.Soc..85:2149-2156 (1963)) or the recombinant DNA technology (people such as Joseph Sambrook J., Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001)) obtain. When using recombinant DNA technology, host cell transforms with the expression vector of the nucleic acid molecules that carries coding AIMP2DX2, then cultivates, and collects subsequently the AIMP2DX2 that is expressed. 
 As previously mentioned, AIMP2DX2 protein of the present invention is specifically expressing in comprising breast cancer, lung cancer, liver cancer, leukemia, cutaneum carcinoma, kidney and osteosarcomatous multiple cancer cell, illustrates that AIMP2DX2 protein can be used as the cancer diagnosis label. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of nucleic acid molecules, this nucleic acid molecules comprises the nucleotide sequence of the above-mentioned AIMP2DX2 protein of encoding. The nucleotide sequence of above-mentioned coding AIMP2DX2 protein comprises the variant of the AIMP2 coordinate of  exon  2 disappearance, for example, show and the function coordinate of the AIMP2 of the substantially the same activity of wild type AIMP2 that they are by obtaining AIMP2 displacement, deletion, insertion or its combination. The AIMP2DX2 protein of SEQ ID NO:2 is preferably by the nucleic acid molecule encoding of the nucleotide sequence that comprises SEQ ID NO:1. But nucleic acid molecules list of the present invention or double-stranded DNA (cDNA and gDNA) or single stranded RNA (mRNA). 
 The nucleic acid molecules of coding AIMP2DX2 protein can separate from natural origin and prepare, prepare by synthetic or recombinant DNA technology. The AIMP2DX2 nucleic acid molecules can be included in the suitable carrier so that AIMP2DX2 protein to be provided. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of recombinant vector, described recombinant vector comprises nucleic acid molecules, and described nucleic acid molecules comprises the nucleotide sequence of the AIMP2DX2 protein of encoding. 
 Term " recombinant vector " refers to can express the genophore of target protein or RNA in suitable host cell as used herein, comprise one section corresponding exogenous array, this sequence is operatively connected to expression of nucleic acid regulating and controlling sequence (for example promoter, burst and transcription factor binding site lattice array). 
 Term " is operably connected " and refers to that the function between expression of nucleic acid regulating and controlling sequence and the second target nucleic acid sequence connects as used herein, and wherein said expression regulation sequence impact being transcribed and/or translating with the corresponding nucleic acid of described the second sequence. Carrier of the present invention can make up according to conventional recombinant DNA technology, wherein cuts and is connected with the commercial obtainable enzyme DNA that fixes a point. 
 Carrier of the present invention includes, but are not limited to plasmid, clay, phage and virus vector.Carrier can comprise expression regulation element, and for example promotor, operon, initial sum terminator codon, polyadenylation signal and enhanser also have film location or excretory signal or leader sequence.That be used in promotor in the carrier and can be composing type or induction type.In addition, carrier can carry selectable marker and the replication orgin that is used to select comprise the host cell of carrier. 
 Signal sequence in the carrier includes, but are not limited to be used for the PhoA and the OmpA signal sequence of Escherichia (Escherichia) host cell, the α-Dian Fenmei and the subtilicin signal sequence that are used for bacillus (Bacillus) host cell, MF α that is used for yeast host cell and SUC2 signal sequence and is used for Regular Insulin, alpha-interferon and the antibody molecule signal sequence of animal host's cell. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of transformant that transforms with the above-mentioned recombinant vectors of the present invention. 
 Conversion can realize according to any known method that nucleic acid is converted into organism, cell, tissue or organ, includes, but are not limited to that electroporation, protoplasma merge, CaPO
           4 Precipitation, CaCl
           2 Precipitation, silicon urea fiber stir, agriculture bacillus mediated conversion, PEG, T 500 and liposome (lipofectamine).Suitable method for transformation can be selected according to the type of host cell.
         
 Usually decide appropriate host cell according to expression level and posttranslational modification.Host cell includes, but are not limited to for example Escherichia coli (Escherichia coli) of prokaryotic cell prokaryocyte, subtilis (Bacillus subtilis), streptomycete (Streptomyces), false pseudomonas bacillus (Pseudomonas), unusual modification bacillus (Proteus mirabilis) and staphylococcus (Staphylococcus), fungi (for example aspergillus fungi (Aspergillus)), yeast (pichia pastoris phaff (Pichiapastoris) for example, yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces) and Neurospora crassa (Neurospora crassa)), insect cell, vegetable cell and mammalian cell. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of and prepared the AIMP2DX2 method of protein by cultivating aforementioned transformant. 
 The cultivation of described transformant is carried out suitable the expression under the proteinic condition of target AIMP2DX2 by ordinary method well known by persons skilled in the art. 
 The AIMP2DX2 protein of expressing can pass through the ordinary method purifying, for example saltout (for example ammonium sulfate and sodium phosphate precipitation), solvent deposition (for example the protein fractionation with acetone or alcohol precipitates), dialysis, gel-filtration, ion-exchange, reversed phase column chromatography, ultrafiltration or their combination (people such as Maniatis, Molecular Cloning:A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1982): people such as Sambrook, MolecularCloning:A Laboratory Manual, 3rd Ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (2001); And Deutscher, M., Guide to Protein Purification Methods, Enzymology, vol.182.AcademicPress.Inc., San Diego, CA (1990)). 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of AIMP2DX2 of being specific to proteinic antibody. 
 Term " antibody " is meant the special protein molecule that is oriented to antigen site as used herein.Antibody of the present invention is meant the antibody of specific recognition and the differentiated AIMP2DX2 of AIMP2, comprises polyclone and monoclonal antibody. 
 The antibody of anti-new protein AIMP2DX2 can prepare by routine techniques well known by persons skilled in the art. 
 Polyclonal antibody can prepare by currently known methods, wherein will inject animal body as immunogenic AIMP2DX2 protein and collect antiserum(antisera) then.Animal by immunity includes, but are not limited to goat, rabbit, sheep, monkey, horse, pig, ox and dog. 
 Monoclonal antibody can be passed through fusion method (Kohler and Milstein, European Journal of Immunology, 6:511-519 (1976)), ( USP  4 for recombinant DNA method, 816,567) or phage antibody library (people such as Clackson, Nature, people such as 352:624-628 (1991) and Marks, J.Mol.Biol., 222:58,1-597 (1991)) prepare. 
 The proteinic antibody of anti-AIMP2DX2 can be to have the complete immunoglobulin molecules of two full-length light chains and two total length heavy chains or its to contain for example fragment of F (v), Fab, Fab ' and F (ab ') 2 of antigen-binding site. 
 Antibody according to the AIMP2DX2 of being specific to of the present invention can be used for diagnosis and treatment cancer by the activity that suppresses AIMP2DX2.When antibody when the medicine, they can with the conventional treatment medicine with directly or indirectly (passing through connecting arm) mode coupling. 
 With the medicine of antibody coupling of the present invention include, but are not limited to radionuclide (for example 131I, 90Y, 105Rh, 47Sc, 67Cu, 212Bi, 211At, 67Ga, 125I, 186Re, 188Re, 177Lu, 153Sm, 123I and 111In), medicine (for example methotrexate and Zorubicin), lymphokine (Interferon, rabbit), toxin (Ricin, abrin and diphtheria) and with the exclusive-OR function antibody of other antibody complex formation, have difunctional binding ability to cancer cells and effector cell's (for example killer T cell). 
 Antibody of the present invention can be separately or the pharmaceutical compositions form use. 
 The pharmaceutical compositions that comprises antibody can prepare with pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.The form of pharmaceutical compositions changes according to administering mode.General composition comprises a kind of tensio-active agent to promote transmembrane transport.This tensio-active agent comprises for example N-[1-(2,3-two oleoyl oxygen) propyl group of steroidal derivative compound, cationic-liposome]-N, N, N-chlorination trimethyl ammonium (DOTMA), hemisuccinic acid cholesterol and phosphatidyl glycerol. 
 The pharmaceutical compositions treatment cancer or the preventing cancer that comprise antibody of the present invention of using pharmacy effective dose shift.Pharmaceutical compositions can the single or multiple dosage regimen be used.The administering mode of pharmaceutical compositions comprises in parenteral, subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, the lung, in the nose and topical.That administered parenterally comprises is subcutaneous, in the intradermal, intramuscular, intravenously, mucus in (intrabursa), the breastbone, in the sheath and peritoneal injection.For making antibody stablize (chemistry and physical stability) and safety, pharmaceutical compositions is usually formulated as pH scope 4-8.In addition, pharmaceutical compositions can be prepared as oral dosage form.Use the typical dosage of standard clinical techniques optimization.。 
 In addition, antibody of the present invention can the nucleic acid molecule form be used generation (WO 96/07321) in the body of inducing antibody. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of cancer diagnosing kit, it comprises and is specific to the proteinic antibody of AIMP2DX2. 
 Cancer diagnosing kit of the present invention can comprise the antibody that is specific to AIMP2DX2 and be used for the common tool of immunoassay and marker, solubilising reagent, washing reagent, damping fluid and the stablizer that reagent comprises carrier, detection signal generation.When enzyme when marking, can comprise its substrate and reaction quencher.The unrestricted example of carrier comprises soluble carrier, physiologically acceptable damping fluid for example well known in the art (for example PBS), insolubility carrier, for example magnetic particle for example made of polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester, polyacrylonitrile, fluoro-resin, sephadex, polysaccharide, polymkeric substance with the rubber of monometallic, paper, glass, many metals, agarose and composition coating thereof. 
 The unrestricted example of effective mensuration system comprises enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) flat board, strip subtraction unit, immune chromatography test paper and separation by diffusion immunoassay apparatus and flow system device in the cancer diagnosing kit of the present invention. 
 Term " cancer markers " is meant the material that information evaluation cancer possibility, generation or development are provided by qualitative or its expression in tissue or cell of detection by quantitative as used herein.This term is preferably to be different from the organic-biological molecule (for example protein, DNA and RNA) that Normocellular expression-form is expressed in cancer cells.AIMP2DX2 gene of the present invention or protein specifically expressing and not expressing in the normal cell in cancer cells, thus allow accurate diagnosing cancer.The cancer diagnosis that uses AIMP2DX2 to express preferably carries out at mRNA and/or protein level.Antibody of the present invention is used for diagnosing cancer, for example lung cancer, liver cancer, breast cancer, skin carcinoma, kidney and osteosarcoma. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide the method for a kind of AIMP2DX2 of screening protein as the cancer diagnosis marker, it comprises following steps: testing sample (a) is provided; (b) expression of the proteinic nucleotide sequence of coding AIMP2DX2 in the test sample, the expression explanation that wherein detects the proteinic nucleotide sequence of coding AIMP2DX2 has cancer. 
 Used term " testing sample " comprises any biological sample for example tissue, cell, whole blood, serum, blood plasma, saliva, seminal fluid, urine, synovia and spinal fluid and can be pretreated detect being used among the present invention. 
 In the present invention, the expression of the proteinic nucleotide sequence of coding AIMP2DX2 can realize at protein or mRNA level in the sample.When carrying out the proteinic detection of AIMP2DX2, using proteinic antibody of specific recognition AIMP2DX2 and detection is to be undertaken by the formation that makes the sample contact be specific to proteinic antibody of AIMP2DX2 and evaluation antigen-antibody complex. 
 Term " antigen-antibody complex " used among the present invention is meant the composition that is specific in AIMP2DX2 protein and the biological sample between the proteinic antibody of AIMP2DX2.Can use immunohistochemistry staining method, radioimmunoassay (RIA), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, immunoprecipitation assay, immunodiffusion(ID) assay method, complement fixation assay, fluorescence amplifying cell separator (FACS) and protein chip assay method to carry out to the evaluation that antigen-antibody complex forms.The evaluation that antigen-antibody complex is formed can be qualitative or be quantitatively carried out, particularly by measuring the signal of certification mark thing. 
 The marker that produces the measurement signal of antigen-antibody complex formation includes, but are not limited to enzyme, fluorophore, part, twinkler, particulate, redox molecule and radio isotope.The enzyme labelling thing includes, but are not limited to β-glucuronidase, β-D-glucuroide, beta-D-galactosidase, urase, peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, acetylcholinesterase, glucose oxidase, hexokinase, GDPase, rnase (RNase), luciferase, phosphofructokinase, Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, aspartic transaminase, phosphoenolpyruvate decarboxylase, β-Nei Xiananmei.Fluorescent marker includes, but are not limited to fluorescein, lsothiocyanates, rhodamine, phycoerythrin, Phycocyanins, C-, allophysocyanin, phthalate and fluorescamine.The part of thing of serving as a mark includes, but are not limited to biotin derivative.The unrestricted example of luminous marker comprises acridinium ester, fluorescein and luciferase.The particulate of thing of serving as a mark includes, but are not limited to Radioactive colloidal gold and colorful rubber.The redox molecule that mark is used includes, but are not limited to ferrocene, lutenium complex chemical compound, purpurine, quinone, Ti ion, Cs ion, imide, 1,4-benzoquinones, Resorcinol, K
           4 W (CN)
           8 , [Os (bpy)
           3 ]
           2+ , [Ru (bpy)
           3 ]
           2+ [Mo (CN)
           8 ]
           4- Radio isotope includes, but are not limited to
           3 H,
           14 C,
           32 P,
           35 S,
           36 Cl,
           51 Cr,
           57 Co,
           58 Co,
           59 Fe,
           90 Y,
           125 I,
           131 I and
           186 Re.
         
 When present method is used for detecting AIMP2DX2 mRNA, detects step and can be undertaken by amplified reaction well known in the art or hybridization. 
 Phrase " detection of AIMP2DX2 mRNA " means by using and the primer of AIMP2DX2 mRNA specific hybridization or probe analysis existence or the quantity as the AIMP2DX2 mRNA of cancer diagnosis marker in the cell as used herein. 
 Term " primer " means the oligonucleotide of free 3 ' hydroxyl as used herein, it can be that to produce naturally in the restriction digest of purifying also can be synthetic the generation, and it can form base pair and be used as the synthetic starting point when being in condition following time of inducing synthetic and nucleic acid chains complementary primer extension product with complementary template. 
 Term " probe " is meant natural or the monomer of modification or the linear oligomer of connector as used herein, comprises deoxyribonucleotide, ribonucleotide or the like, no matter it can or synthesize the target nucleotide sequences specific hybridization that generates with natural generation.In present method used probe can oligonucleotide probe, ssDNA probe, double chain DNA probe and the preparation of rna probe form.Available vitamin H, FITC, rhodamine, DIG and labelled with radioisotope.For example, SEQ ID No.8 or 16 nucleotide sequence can be used as probe. 
 Use the method for primer or probe in detecting AIMP2DX2 mRNA to include, but are not limited to dna sequence analysis, RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction), primer extension method (Nikiforov, T.T. wait the people, Nucl Acids Res 22,4167-4175 (1994)), oligonucleotide connects analyzes (OLA) (Nickerson, D.A. wait the people, Pro Nat Acad Sci USA, 87,8923-8927 (1990)), allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (Rust, S. wait the people, Nucl Acids Res, 6,3623-3629 (1993)), RNA enzyme mispairing cracking (people such as Myers R.M., Science, 230,1242-1246 (1985)), single strand conformation poly morphism (SSCP; People such as Orita M., Pro Nat Acad Sci USA, 86,2766-2770 (1989)), SSCP and heteroduplex analyze (people such as Lee, Mol Cells, 5:668-672 (1995)), denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE simultaneously; People such as Cariello NF., Am J Hum Genet, 42,726-734 (1988)) and sex change high performance liquid chromatography (D-HPLC, people such as Underhill PA., Genome Res, 7,996-1005 (1997)). 
 The method of amplified reaction preferably uses the primer of the mRNA of the mRNA that can distinguish AIMP2DX2 and AIMP2 to be undertaken by RT-PCR.The RT-PCR method that proposes to be used for RNA research by P.Seeburg (1986) comprise from the mRNA reverse transcription obtain the pcr amplification of cDNA.During amplification, use the special primer that is annealed to AIMP2DX2 right.Primer is preferably designed for the band that generates two different sizes in electrophoresis, and wherein one is specific to AIMP2mRNA, and another is specific to AIMP2DX2 mRNA.Perhaps, design of primers is for only generating the electrophoresis band that is specific to AIMP2DX2mRNA.Preparation can generate the primer of two different size strip of AIMP2 mRNA and AIMP2DX2 mRNA to being for the zone corresponding with exon 2 of increasing.The nucleotide sequence of this primer is unrestricted; Most preferred one group of primer is made up of SEQ ID NOs:5 and 6.In order to observe the electrophoresis band that has only to be specific to AIMP2DX2 mRNA, one of them design of primers is the catenation sequence that comprises between the N end of the C end of exons 1 and exon 3.Among the following embodiment, when carrying out RT-PCR, the primer that is annealed to the SEQ ID NO:8 of catenation sequence uses with the primer of SEQ ID NO:6 with the primer that the primer of SEQ ID NO:7 used or be annealed to the SEQ ID NO:16 of catenation sequence.Because estimate the diagnosis that cancer is finished in the expression of AIMP2DX2 mRNA by observing the electrophoresis band banding pattern, RT-PCR analyzes very convenient in this sense. 
 Comprise that lung cancer, liver cancer, breast cancer, skin carcinoma, kidney and osteosarcomatous cancer symptoms can diagnose by the significant difference that AIMP2DX2 between sample and contrast expresses. 
 SiRNA (siRNA) molecule of the mRNA of a kind of AIMP2DX2 of being specific to is provided according to a preferred aspect of the present invention. 
 Term " siRNA " is meant the short rna two strands of inducing RNAi (RNA interference) phenomenon by the mRNA cracking as used herein.SiRNA is by by adopted RNA chain with said target mrna complementary sense-rna chain form corresponding with said target mrna.The siRNA that suppresses expression of target gene provides effective gene knockout method or gene therapy method. 
 It is double-stranded and can comprise the non-matching part for example with the mispairing part of incomplementarity base with there is not the projection of corresponding base that siRNA of the present invention is not restricted to the complete paired RNA of two chains.The total length of siRNA is a 10-100 Nucleotide, preferred 15-80 Nucleotide, more preferably 20-70 Nucleotide.SiRNA also can comprise flat end or sticky end as long as it can be owing to the reticent AIMP2DX2 of RNAi effect expresses.Sticky end can be made into 3 ' terminal overhung structure or 5 ' terminal overhung structure.The length of the base of dangling is unrestricted, for example 1-8 Nucleotide, preferably 2-6 Nucleotide.Total length expressed as described herein is whole length of double-stranded part in center and terminal strand overhang.In addition, as long as AIMP2DX2 siRNA can keep its gene silencing effect to target gene, it can contain low molecular weight RNA (can be for example tRNA, rRNA or viral RNA of natural RNA molecule, or engineered rna molecule), for example at the overhang of its arbitrary end.Two ends of AIMP2DX2 siRNA needn't all have the cracking structure.AIMP2DX2siRNA of the present invention can comprise the loop-stem structure that links to each other by connecting arm with arbitrary end (head or tail).Only otherwise the base pairing of infringement stem structure, the length of connecting arm is unrestricted. 
 Term " special " is meant and suppresses target gene expression and do not influence other gene as used herein.SiRNA of the present invention is specific to the AIMP2DX2 gene. 
 SiRNA of the present invention preferably comprises the sense strand of the corresponding sequence that contains    exons    1 and 3 catenation sequences and contains the antisense strand of complementary sequence. 
 Phrase " inhibition of genetic expression " is meant that the mRNA that generates from target gene and/or protein level are moved to end or reduce, and it disturbs and induce by mRNA cracked RNA takes place. 
 SiRNA of the present invention can be external synthetic then by the transfection transfered cell.In addition, it can the siRNA expression vector or PCR derive the form transfection of siRNA expression cassette in cell.Preparation that is fit to and transfection method can decide through considering experiment purpose and target gene function. 
 The sequence of siRNA and length are unrestricted as long as it can special inhibition AIMP2DX2 mRNA.Used the siRNA expression vector of 3 kinds of illustrative reticent AIMP2DX2 hereinafter among the embodiment of Miao Shuing, they suppress the cell levels of AIMP2DX2 and recover the AIMP2 function and the transduction of TGF-signal. 
 Preferred siRNA of the present invention comprises and    exons    1 and 3 corresponding sequences of catenation sequence of AIMP2DX2 mRNA.SiRNA of the present invention RNA two strands more preferably as described below: (i) molecular No. 3 siRNA of two RNA that express by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NOs:9 and 10, (ii) molecular No. 4 siRNA of two RNA that express by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NOs:11 and 12, or molecular No. 5 siRNA of two RNA that (iii) express by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NOs:13 and 14.Two RNA molecular compositions that most preferred siRNA is expressed by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NOs:11 and 12.Can use the single or mixed type of siRNA molecule. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of and the antisense oligonucleotide proteinic mRNA regional complementarity of AIMP2DX2. 
 Term " antisense oligonucleotide " is meant and the base sequence complementary nucleic acid of said target mrna as used herein, and preferred DNA, RNA or derivatives thereof are characterized as them and combine and disturb it to be translated as protein with said target mrna.Antisense oligonucleotide of the present invention be meant be incorporated into AIMP2DX2 mRNA and with its complementary DNA or RNA sequence, they can suppress translation, transposition, maturation or other biological function of AIMP2DX2 mRNA.Antisense nucleotide is long to be 6-100, preferred 8-60, more preferably 10-40 Nucleotide. 
 Antisense oligonucleotide can be on base, sugar or main chain the rarest modification to obtain higher restraining effect (people such as DeMesmaeker, Curr Opin Struct Biol., 5 (3): 343-55 (1995)).The nucleic acid main chain of modifying comprises sugared connecting arm or short chain heteroatoms or the interior sugared connecting arm of heterocycle in thiophosphatephosphorothioate, phosphotriester, methylphosphonate, short-chain alkyl or the cycloalkyl.Antisense oligonucleotide also can comprise the sugar moieties of one or more replacements.Antisense nucleic acid can comprise one or more modified bases, for example xanthoglobulin, 6-methyladenine, 5-methylpyrimidine (particularly 5-methylcytosine), 5-hydroxymethyl cytosine (HMC), glycosyl HMC and gentobiosyl HMC, 2-aminoadenine, 2-deracil, 2-thio-thymine (thiothymine), 5-bromouracil, 5-hydroxylmethyluracil, guanozola, the assorted guanine of 7-denitrification, N
           6 (the amino hexyl of 6-) VITAMIN B4 and 2,6-diaminopurine.Another modification of oligonucleotide of the present invention comprises with oligonucleotide carries out one or more parts or the conjugate that chemistry is connected, and they can strengthen the activity or the cellular uptake of oligonucleotide.This part includes, but are not limited to lipid part for example cholesterol moiety, cholesterol part, cholic acid, thioether, sulphur cholesterol, aliphatic chain, phosphatide, polyamines, polyglycol chain, acetate amantadine, palmitoyl part, stearylamine, hexyl amino-carbonyl-oxycholesterol part.The method that comprises the oligonucleotide of lipophilic portion and prepare this oligonucleotide is known in this field, and for example U.S. Pat 5,138, and 045,5,218,105 and 5,459,255.Above-mentioned modification can strengthen the stability of nuclease-resistant degraded and increase the avidity of antisense oligonucleotide to its said target mrna.
         
 The antisense oligonucleotide that is specific to AIMP2DX2 preferably comprises and the  exons  1 of AIMP2DX2 mRNA and 3 connecting zone complementary sequence. 
 Antisense rna molecule is at the synthetic cell that changes over to then of external routine.In addition, it is transcribed in cell by exogenous array and generates.The external synthetic rna plymerase i that comprises.The preparation sense-rna body in transcribe use carrier identified region starting point (MCS) in the opposite direction.Sense-rna preferably comprises translation stop codon that suppresses to be translated as peptide. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of cancer, it comprises (a) as the antisense oligonucleotide that is specific to AIMP2DX2 mRNA of activeconstituents or siRNA and (b) pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 In another aspect of this invention, a kind of cancer patients's of treatment method is provided, comprise the pharmaceutical compositions that is applied to the patient, this pharmaceutical compositions comprises (a) as the antisense oligonucleotide that is specific to AIMP2DX2 mRNA of activeconstituents or siRNA and (b) pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 The pharmaceutical compositions that comprises at least a AIMP2DX2 siRNAs or antisense oligonucleotide can contain the transduction that other medicines suppress tumor cell proliferation and promote siRNA or antisense nucleotide, for example, and liposome (U.S. Pat 4,897,355,4,394,448,4,235,871,4,231,877,4,224,179,4,753,788,4,673,567,4,247,411 and 4,814,270), or comprise for example lipophilic carrier of cholesterol, cholate and Septochol of sterol.In addition, siRNA or antisense nucleic acid and cell absorption peptide for example peptide hormone, antigen and peptide toxin put together (people such as Haralambid, WO89/03 849; People such as Lebleu, EP 0263740). 
 When pharmaceutical compositions was used for oral administration with the preparation of acceptable carrier pharmaceutically, it can comprise wedding agent, lubricant, disintegrating agent, thinner, solubility promoter, dispersion agent, stablizer, suspension agent, pigment and sweeting agent.When the pharmaceutical compositions preparation was used to inject, it can comprise damping fluid, sanitas, anodyne, solubility promoter, tonicity agent and stablizer.During topical, pharmaceutical compositions can contain matrix, thinner, lubricant and sanitas.The preparation of pharmaceutical compositions can prepare by preparing with above-mentioned pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.During oral administration, pharmaceutical compositions can be the form of tablet, lozenge, capsule, elixir, suspension, syrup and wafer (wafer).Injectable composition can be prepared as the unitary dose or the multiple doses form of capacity. 
 The correct dose of pharmaceutical compositions that the present invention comprises AIMP2DX2 siRNA or antisense oligonucleotide is according to special composition, application form, patient's age, body weight and sex, diet, administration time, patient's situation, medication combined medication, reaction sensitivity and disease seriousness and different.Can be understood as common skilled practitioners can be easy to determine the correct dose of this pharmaceutical compositions and prescribe. 
 The form of medication of pharmaceutical compositions comprises that oral and parenteral is for example subcutaneous, in the intradermal, intramuscular, intravenously, mucus in (intrabursa), the breastbone, in the sheath and intraperitoneal injection. 
 In another aspect of this invention, a kind of method of screening the medicine that heterodimer forms between the AIMP2DX2 protein that suppresses  claim  1 and AIMP2 protein is provided, has comprised following steps: (a) made sample and comprise AIMP2DX2 protein and contact with the proteinic composition of AIMP2; (b) whether the mensuration sample suppresses the heterodimer formation between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein, and the sample that wherein suppresses the heterodimer formation between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein is evaluated as cancer therapy drug. 
 The formation of heterodimer is relevant with cancer as what represent in the example of hereinafter describing between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein.Therefore, can suppress the material standed for that material that heterodimer forms is be evaluated as cancer therapy drug. 
 The method that the screening heterodimer forms comprises for example yeast two-hybrid assay method and external pull-down assay method. 
 By Field﹠amp; In the yeast two-hybrid assay method that Song (1989) at first develops, AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein can be used as " bait " or " prey " (referring to for example U.S. Pat 5,283,317; People such as Zervos, Cell 72,223-232 (1993); Maduraetal., J.Biol.Chem.268,12046-12054 (1993); People such as Bartel, BioTechniques 14,920-924 (1993); People such as Iwabuchi,  Oncogene  8,1693-1696 (1993); With Brent WO 94/10300) differentiate that inhibition AIMP2DX2 and AIMP2 interaction form the material of heterodimer.Two-hybrid system is based on the module character of most of transcription factors, and it is made up of separable DNA combination and active region.In brief, this assay method is utilized two different DNA structures.For example, in a structure, coding AIMP2DX2 proteinic polynucleotide can merge with the polynucleotide of the DNA calmodulin binding domain CaM of coding known transcription factor (for example Lex).Coding AIMP2 protein DNA sequence can merge with the polynucleotide of the active region of coding known transcription factor (for example B42) in another structure. 
 If the treated sample that enters expression two-hybrid system cell can suppress the interaction between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein, the DNA combination and the active region of transcription factor can't be approaching.This near allowing transcribing of reporter gene (for example lac Z), it may be operably coupled to the transcriptional regulatory site of response transcription factor.The expression of reporter gene can easily detect. 
 In an external pull-down assay method mode, AIMP2DX2 gene and AIMP2 gene can be used as bait or prey.For example, in a bait structure, AIMP2 protein merges with the protein that can make the AIMP2 protein bound in solid carrier.For example, glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion rotein can be by the microtiter plate absorption of deriving of Triptide sepharose 4B or Triptide.In another prey structure, AIMP2DX2 protein comes synthetic by the external translating system (for example reticulocyte lysate) that uses 35S.Radioactivity AIMP2DX2 protein adds in the GST-AIMP2 albumen that is incorporated into the Triptide sepharose 4B with sample.Flushing reaction mixture and elution of bound are in the protein of sepharose 4B, with rear electrophoresis. 
 If the sample of adding reaction mixture can suppress the interaction between AIMP2DX2 protein and AIMP2 protein, electrophoresis result shows does not have band. 
 In another aspect of this invention, provide a kind of method of screening the medicine that suppresses AIMP2DX2 genetic expression, comprised following steps: (a) made sample and express the cells contacting of AIMP2DX2 gene; (b) determine that whether sample suppresses the AIMP2DX2 expression of gene or promote the proteinic destruction of AIMP2DX2, wherein suppresses the AIMP2DX2 expression of gene or promotes the proteinic destructive sample of AIMP2DX2 to be evaluated as cancer therapy drug. 
 In the method, on mRNA or protein level, estimate the AIMP2DX2 expression of gene.When present method is used for detecting AIMP2DX2 mRNA expression, preferably undertaken by the RT-PCR that uses above-described AIMP2DX2 special primer.When present method is used for detecting the AIMP2DX2 protein expression, preferably for example uses and use the Western blotting of AIMP2DX2 specific antibody to carry out as described before by the panimmunity assay method. 
 
 
 Following specific embodiments will illustrate the present invention and should not be construed as restriction as the defined scope of the present invention of accessory claim. 
 Embodiment 
 Method 
 Cell cultures, chemical reagent and cell cycle measure 
 Cell is cultivated in the RPMI-1640 that contains 10% foetal calf serum (FBS).Mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) be from 12.5-14.5 days embryo, separate and in containing the DMEM of 20%FBS (Dulbecco ' sModified Eagle Medium), cultivate.In order to estimate the effect of TGF-β in the cell cycle, cell was cultivated 24 hours and was collected in serum-free or 1% contains the substratum of FBS with 2ng/mlTGF-β and is used for facs analysis.Cell proliferation also by [
           3 H] thymidine participates in and measures.Cell is used in serum free medium or was cultivated 20 hours without TGF-β, then at 1 μ Ci/ml[
           3 H] thymidine exists down and cultivated 4 hours.The thymidine that participates in is used as described before, and drop scintillation counting technique (Kim, people such as M.J., Nat.Genet.34,330-336 (2003)) carries out quantitatively.TGF-β buys from R﹠amp; D system, anti-Smad2 and anti-Smad4 antibody are bought from Santa Cruz.Anti-AIMP2 antibody is prepared as follows: (Sigma 1mg/ml) mixes and is subcutaneously injected in the rabbit (male, New Zealand) with isolating 500ugAIMP2 protein and 500ul Freund's complete adjuvant.After 7 days, in rabbit, the 7 days ejection testing things in every then interval carry out 2 times with isolating 500ug AIMP2 protein and 500ul Freund's complete adjuvant (1mg/ml) hybrid injection.After 3 days, from rabbit blood, separate anti-AIMP2 Ab.
         
 Immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation 
 Cell is handled number of times and the protein RIPA buffer extraction of being indicated that contains proteolytic ferment with TGF-β, separates through 10-12%SDS-PAGE, and carries out immunoblotting with the specific antibody that uses the ECL system.When carrying out immunoprecipitation, cell lysate is removed with the a-protein pre-treatment of puting together agarose with IgG.After centrifugal, supernatant liquor was cultivated 2 hours with specific antibody and the a-protein of puting together agarose.After ice-cold PBS washed twice and the RIPA washing once, with specific antibody precipitation bonded protein, wash-out also carries out western blot analysis. 
 RT-PCR 
 Total RNAs separates according to manufacturer's (Qiagen) operation instruction.In brief, (3 * 3 * 3mm) mince and are small pieces, mix with 350 μ l lysis buffers and use homogenizer or syringe homogenization with the tissue of prepared fresh.After adding 350 μ l, 70% ethanol, lysate is inverted for several times, and last sample is to pillar, 13, and centrifugal 15 seconds of 000RPM.Behind twice on lavation buffer solution washing pillar, RNAs does not have RNase DW wash-out with 40 μ l.When carrying out reverse transcription, with the template (Fig. 8 b) of isolating 1 μ gRNA as the AIMP2 special primer.After the reaction, mixture is used for 30 μ l PCR reaction with 3 times of DW dilutions and its 1 μ l aliquots containig, wherein contains primer (every kind of 10pM), 1.5 μ lDMSO and 0.1 μ lTaq polysaccharase (5U/ μ l) that 0.5 μ l dNTP (every kind of 2.5mM), 0.5 μ l are indicated. 
 Suppress AIMP2DX2 with si-RNA 
 In order to suppress the expression of AIMP2DX2, prepare the siRNAs of anti-AIMP2DX2.The sequence of the siRNA of the anti-AIMP2DX2 of design coding and be cloned into the SalI and the XbaI site of 16 IMG-700 carrier systems (Imgenex) is with after the sequence that dna sequence analysis is cloned with conclusive evidence.With the si-DX2 expression vector transfection of 2 μ g to the H322 cell.After cultivating 3 hours with the DNA-liposome complex in the 1ml serum free medium, the RPMI-1640 that contains 20%FBS with 1ml handles the H322 cell.Then, cell was cultivated 20 hours in the serum free medium that is with or without TGF-β. 
 Yeast two-hybrid is analyzed 
 Use special primer to obtain the cDNAs (and deletion fragment) of coding people AIMP2 and Smad2 by PCR.The PCR product of Smad2 and AIMP2 digests with EcoRI and XhoI, and be connected to the same loci (Gyuris of pEG202 (LexA) and pJG4-5 (B42) respectively, people such as J, a human G1 and S phase protein phosphatasethat associates with Cdk2.Cell 75,791-803 (1993)).Interaction between Lex-Smad2 fragment and B42-AIMP2 is analyzed (Rho by the foregoing ability that they are grown in containing the yeast culture base of X-gal, S.B.et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 96,4488-93. (1999)). 
 The stable structure that generates the cell of AIMP2DX2 
 Wild-type MEFs carries out transfection and select transfectional cell in the DMEM substratum that contains 400 μ g/mlG418 with pcDNA-AIMP2DX2 or pcDNA itself.After discarding the cell of untransfected, transfectional cell was cultivated 3 days in the normal substratum of no G418, fixed and Giemsa staining with 2%PFA. 
 Immunostaining and histologic analysis 
 Organize slide glass to fix with 2% Paraformaldehyde 96 and ice-cold PBS flushing refrigerated.In sealing with after with the PBS infiltration that contains 0.2%Triton X-100 (PBST) and 1%BSA, slide glass was cultivated 2 hours with anti-AIMP2 antibody.After the PBS flushing, use anti-rabbit sheep IgG-FITC and propidium iodide (50 μ g/ml) to hatch again 1 hour, with the PBS flushing, install, under Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope, observe. 
 The structure of AIMP2DX2 expression vector 
 In order to make up the AIMP2DX2 expression vector, the cDNA of AIMP2DX2 is cloned among the pcDNA3.1-myc.At first, AIMP2DX2 among the connecting arm of use primer and EcoRI and the XhoI amplification H322 cDNA and use EcoRI and XhoI are cloned into it among pcDNA3.1-myc (Invitrogen).The pcDNA3.1-myc/AIMP2D X2 carrier (Figure 12) of expressing AIMP2DX is imported among the E.coli DH5 α, this E.coli DH5 α is preserved in international preservation mechanism (International Depository Authority) on October 25th, 2004, Korea S typical case DSMZ (KCTC) and the deposit number that gives are KCTC 10710BP. 
 The generation of knock-out mice and feature 
 The sudden change of mouse gene group DNA produces people such as (, Nature, 9,608-611,1998) Zambrowicz by the gene trap method.Gene capturing carrier be used to produce random mutation body storehouse from the embryonic stem cell of 129/SvEvBrd mouse (OmniBank library, Lexicon Genetics, USA).In this storehouse, confirm that the AIMP2DX2 gene is destroyed among the OST7994 clone.Use above clone, obtain C57/BL6 heterozygosis mouse according to the standard method of Lexicon Genetics.Then with the mating of described heterozygosis mouse to obtain the homozygous mutation mouse.13.5 days mice embryonic is separated with blade chopping, and tryptic digestion and being positioned in the culture dish is cultivated. 
 Mutant is by using southern blotting technique method and the pcr analysis method conclusive evidence of the genomic dna s that separates from mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF).AIMP2 expresses and measures by RNA trace and western blot analysis.The position that gene trap inserts is measured by the sequential analysis of genomic dna.Carry out southern blotting technique when analyzing, isolation of genomic DNA and it is digested with SacI from mousetail.The dna fragmentation of cutting separates by denaturing gel electrophoresis and its radiolabeled 1.2kb PCR product with the primer of AIMP2 gene and SEQ NOs17 and 18 is hybridized.Hybrid belt detects with the phosphoroscope analyzer. Use SEQ NOs  19 and 20,  SEQ NOs  20 and 21 special primer are right, also separated genomic dna can be used for pcr analysis. 
 When carrying out rna blot analysis, use RNeasy Midi kit (QIAGEN) according to manufacturer's explanation total cell RNA of preparation from mouse embryo fibroblasts.Independently RNAs (30ug) is transferred on the Hybond N film (Amersham) by the electrophoretic separation of 1.2% agarose/2.2M formaldehyde gel, is fixed on the film by uviolizing then.Use ExpressHyb hybridization solution (CLONTECH) makes the RNAs on the film and passes through the special probe hybridization of the PCR generation of AIMP2 cDNA.Extract protein from mouse embryo fibroblast (MEF) cell, separate and carry out western blot analysis with anti-AIMP2 polyclonal antibody through SDS-PAGE, method therefor is described in (people such as Park, 274,16673-16676,1999; People such as Kim, J Biol Chem, 275,21768-21772,2000) in. 
 Lung cancer forms 
 32 AIMP2
           +/- Mouse (19 male and 13 female mices) and 25 AIMP2
           + /+ Mouse (14 male and 11 female mices) is used for experiment.We are by with chemical carcinogen benzene-(α)-(BP 100mg/kg) is expelled to AIMP2 to pyrene
           + /+ And AIMP2
           +/- Induce lung tumor in the mouse peritoneal, and monitor the formation of tumour in the lung.Organize 3 AIMP2 in contrast
           + /+ (2 male and 1 female) and 5 AIMP2
           +/- Mouse (4 male and 1 female) is with bical solution (10%DMSO and 35%PEG40 salts solution) injection.
         
 Use the skin carcinoma model of knock-out mice 
 The wild-type (WT) of 33 two kinds of sexes and AIMP2 knock out (KO) mouse and are divided into the male contrast of following group: WT (3), the male processing of WT (6), the female contrast of WT (2), the female processing of WT (6), the male contrast of KO (2), the male processing of KO (6), the female contrast of KO (3) and the female treatment group of KO (5). 
 7 of single dose (0.2 μ mol/0.2ml acetone), 12-dimethylbenzene [a] anthracene (7,12-dimethybenz[a] anthracene)) (DMBA) the plucked back of treatment group mouse is given in topical application, and control group mice is only used acetone treatment.After one week, used the mouse (DMBA-initiated mice) of DMBA and handled 21 weeks of co-processing weekly twice with 12-O-mnyristoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate) (TPA, 10nmol/0.2ml acetone).Control animal is only used acetone treatment in whole research.From 1 week of handling, the tumour of minimum 1mm diameter is counted weekly through promotor.After 21 weeks, put to death mouse and tumor sample proofreaied and correct the biochemical analysis that is used for subsequently. 
   Embodiment  1 
 Functional importance and the operating mode of AIMP2 in TGF-β conduction 
 In order to observe the importance of AIMP2 in TGF-β conduction, we have compared AIMP2
           + /+ And AIMP2
           /- MEFs is to the nuclear transposition of the beta induced cessation of growth cessation of TGF-, Smad2/3 and the interactional reaction of AIMP2 and Smad2/3.When the growth of wild-type cell is suppressed by TGF-β, the cell that AIMP2 lacks to participate in by thymidine, bacterium colony forms and flow cytometry (Fig. 1 a, 1b and 1c, the signal no response of Que Dinging respectively).When MEFs handles with TGF-β, Smad2 and Smad3 in normal cell transposition to nucleus, but at AIMP2
           / Not transposition in the cell (Fig. 1 d).All these results suggest the functional importance of AIMP2 in the conduction of the TGF-β by Smad2 and Smad3.
         
 May interacting of AMIP2 and Smad2 and Smad3 checked by co-immunoprecipitation.AIMP2 has shown by the interaction of TGF-β enhanced and Smad2/3 (Fig. 1 e).The direct interaction of AIMP2 and two R-Smads is also confirmed (Fig. 2 and 7) by yeast two-hybrid and external pull-down assay method.(Fig. 2 a) according to being increased by the beta induced AIMP2 of TGF-with the amount of Smad2/3 bonded AIMP2.When the AIMP2 level increased by transfection, TGF-β target gene expression was enhanced, and had hinted its hormesis (Fig. 2 b) in TGF-β conduction.Because AIMP2 combines with Smad2 and 3, we expect that it works in a similar manner to these two R-Smads and so focus is concentrated on the physical relationship of itself and Smad2.The phosphorylation that the TGF-β of Smad2 relies on is suppressed in the MEFs that AIMP2 lacks, but when AIMP2 is imported AIMP2
           /- Recover during cell (Fig. 2 c).Relate among the Smad2 with the interactive domains of AIMP2 and determining by yeast two-hybrid (Fig. 2 d) and external pull-down assay method (Fig. 7).These two experiment display interactions relate to the MH2 structural domain of Smad2.
         
 In order to determine the operating mode of AIMP2 in TGF-β conduction, lack beta induced the getting in touch of TGF-of comparing Smad2 and TGF-beta receptor in the cell at normal cell and AIMP2.Handle the contact of cell and Smad2 and acceptor monitors at the co-immunoprecipitation in the timed interval by I receptoroid and Smad2 with TGF-β.Time point is observed with the beta induced Smad2 of TGF-beta receptor bonded TGF-and it and is reduced in wild-type cell in early days, accumulates (Fig. 2 e) late and lack the acceptor that is incorporated into Smad2 in the cell after TGF-β handles at AIMP2.In the phosphorylation of the beta induced Smad2 of TGF-, the Smad2 of phosphorylation increases in wild-type cell gradually, but at AIMP2
           /- In the cell by severe inhibition (Fig. 2 f).These presentation of results AIMP2 plays crucial effect by the direct interaction of itself and R-Smad2 in the beta induced phosphorylation of the TGF-of R-Smad2.
         
   Embodiment  2 
 The generation of its deletion mutation body in the inhibition of AIMP2 and the cancer cells 
 In order to explore may getting in touch that AIMP2 and cancer form, in different carcinoma clone, observe the difference [A549 (lung epithelial cancer), DU145 (prostate cancer), HCT116 (human colorectal cancer), H460 (maxicell lung cancer), H322 (lung bronchioalveolar carcinoma) and the H290 (mesothelioma cancerous cell line) that can obtain from American type culture collection (ATCC)] of AIMP2 level.These six kinds detect in the clone three kinds at Western blotting (Fig. 3 a) and shown the AIMP2 level of hanging down in the facs analysis (Fig. 3 b).The expression of cell lines of all low AIMP2 levels normal level TGF-β II receptor and keep its kinase activity, the low AIMP2 level of hint is not because obstacle (mal-functionality) appears in the function of acceptor causes.For whether the difference of measuring the AIMP2 level is because the difference of transcribing causes, use the AIMP2 special primer of various combination to carry out RT-PCR.The AIMP2 gene is made up of four exons that (Fig. 8 a).When the primer of SEQ ID Nos.3 and 4 is used to produce the AIMP2 cDNA that crosses over exon 3 and 4, in showing the cell that the AIMP2 level reduces, do not find the minimizing (Fig. 3 c, first row) of AIMP2 transcript, hint that it is not because the low result who causes that transcribes.When the primer that uses SEQ ID Nos.5 and 6 produced the transcript of exons 1 to 3, the transcript that has not only obtained the expection size also had a less transcript (Fig. 3 c, second row).The sequential analysis of this little transcript shows that it lacks 69 amino acid whose exon 2s (Fig. 8 b) of coding AIMP2.In order to confirm to have generated this less transcript, designed the primer (Fig. 8 b, primer DX-B) of SEQ ID No.8 of the catenation sequence of target exons 1 and 3, wherein said catenation sequence is because the disappearance of exon 2 generates, and carries out RT-PCR with the primer of SEQ ID No.7.The clone of expressing low AIMP2 level has generated this less transcript (called after DX2, Fig. 3 c, second and third row). 
 Use the western blot analysis of anti-AIMP2 antibody only to detect total length AIMP2, (Fig. 2 a), this hint DX2 may be very unsettled at protein level and do not detect DX2.Immunofluorescence staining has also proved the lower AIMP2 level (Fig. 3 d) in H460, H322 and H290.In order to get rid of the possibility of the artifact that dyes, H460 and DU145 cell are cultivated on same flat board and dyeing AIMP2 altogether.A lot (Fig. 9 a) a little less than in DU145 once more for the staining power of AIMP2 in H460.That in addition, does not observe in the cell that low AIMP2 expresses that the TGF-β of AIMP2 relies on appraises and decides position (Fig. 3 d, a bottom line).In order to find the relation of functional of AIMP2 level and TGF-β, we have detected the growth-inhibiting of TGF-β to these clones.When the growth of A549 and DU145 cell was suppressed by TGF-β, the cell of low AIMP2 level was to TGF-β no response (Fig. 3 e).This result and the A549 that reports previously are responsive and H460 is (Osada, people such as H., Cancer Res.61, the 8331-8339 (2001) of opposing to the TGF-signal; Kim, people such as T.K., Lung Cancer 31,181-191 (2001)) unanimity.In addition, target gene is beta induced by TGF-in A549 and DU145, but is not induced (Fig. 3 f) in the clone of H322 and two other low AIMP2. 
   Embodiment  3 
 The deletion mutation body of non-activity and function AIMP2 form mixture 
 In order to understand the cause-effect relationship that DX2 generates and AIMP2 suppresses, in variation with DX2 transfection inspection AIMP2 level to the DU145.AIMP2 reduces in the DX2 transfectional cell, and is shown as western blotting (Fig. 4 a, first row) and facs analysis (Fig. 9 b).In addition, the expression of the target c-myc of AIMP2 improves (Fig. 4 a, the third line) owing to importing DX2.DX2 has also alleviated because the growth-inhibiting (Fig. 4 b and 9c) that TGF-β causes.How we then influences functional AIMP2 (AIMP2F) if studying DX2.Because AIMP2 has possibility (Quevillon, people such as S., J.Mol.Biol.285, the 183-195 (1999) that forms homodimer; And Kim, people such as J.Y., Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.USA 99,7912-7916 (2002)), we check by the yeast two-hybrid assay method whether AIMP2DX2 interacts with AIMP2F.AIMP2DX2 shows that it and AIMP2F have interaction, but oneself does not have interact (Fig. 4 c) with it.In external pull-down measures, radioactivity synthetic AIMP2F and-DX2 all with GST-AIMP2F copurification (Fig. 4 d), and DX2 can not, this proved AIMP2F and-direct interaction between DX2.In TGF-β conduction whether activity is arranged in order to observe DX2, we detect the interaction of itself and Smad2 with the yeast two-hybrid assay method.When the known target spot FBP of AIMP2 and Smad2 and AIMP2 interacts (Kim, people such as M.J., Nat.Genet.34,330-336 (2003)), DX2 not with any of these protein bound, this hints that it is (Fig. 4 e) that does not have functionally active. 
 For the formation of understanding heterodimer is how to suppress AIMP2, we check the degradation process regulation and control whether the AIMP2 level is relied on by proteasome.Whether the H322 cell that produces DX2 increases by blocks protein enzyme body with proteasome inhibitor ALLN processing (Zhou, M. wait the people, J.Biol.Chem.271,24769-24775 (1996)) and detection AIMP2 level.The AIMP2 level is handled significantly by ALLN to be increased, and shown in western blotting (Fig. 4 f), immunofluorescence dyeing (Fig. 4 g) and flow cytometry (Fig. 9 d), this hints that its cell levels may be regulated and control by the degraded of proteasome mediation.In addition, the AIMP2DX2 form also can detect (Fig. 4 f) by arrestin enzyme body, this with regard to having confirmed DX2 because the quick degraded that proteasome relies on and unsettled viewpoint.With normal AIMP2 relatively, the intensity of AIMP2DX2 is low looks like because low transcribing caused, and this analyzes (Fig. 3 c) by RT-PCR and is confirmed, and/or since the recognition efficiency difference of anti-AIMP2 antibody cause.Because the AIMP2 degraded is the proteasome mediation, whether we detect its ubiquitination and are promoted by DX2.When AIMP2 from handle through ALLN and with the contrast of anti-ubiqutin antibody labeling and DX2 transfectional cell during immunoprecipitation, with the AIMP2 of ubiquitin materialization in the control cells relatively, in the DX2 transfectional cell, observe the AIMP2 (Fig. 4 h) of the ubiquitin materialization of higher amount.In a word, DX2 forms the non-activity mixture as dominant negative mutant and AIMP2, and this mixture enters degradation process fast. 
   Embodiment  4 
 AIMP2DX2 makes the conduction inactivation of TGF-β and promotes the cell growth 
 The DX2 transfection is formed its effect in the cell growth that detects to MEFs and by microscopical analysis and bacterium colony.Significantly strengthen the growth of cell (Fig. 5 a) by importing DX2.We import the siRNA (si-DX2) that special inhibition DX2 transcribes and check whether it can recover normal level and the TGF-β conduction of AIMP2 in the H322 cell of expressing DX2 then.When expressing the carrier transfection H322 cell of No. 4 or No. 5 siRNA, measure the raising (left side) of the necrocytosis that TGF-β causes and the generation (right side) (Fig. 5 d) of cell cycle arrest with FACS.In order to detect normal level and the TGF-β conduction whether siRNA can recover AIMP2, the special carrier that suppresses No. 4 siRNA of generation (si-DX2) of DX2 specifically expressing is transfected in the H322 cell of expression DX2.(Fig. 5 g) and growth-inhibiting (Fig. 5 h) are expressed in the report of appraising and deciding position (Fig. 5 f), TGF-β dependence that si-DX2 has melted DX2 transcript (Fig. 5 e top) and made AIMP2 recover the normal level phosphorylation beta induced with the TGF-that has recovered Smad2 (Fig. 5 e bottom and Fig. 5 f), p-Smad2.All these presentation of results DX2 have destruction to TGF-β conduction and cell adjusting and controlling growth. 
   Embodiment  5 
 Getting in touch of AIMP2 deletion mutation body and people's lung cancer 
 Because (Fig. 3 a, 3b and 3d) detects in the different carcinoma clone of being everlasting during the minimizing of AIMP2, and the forfeiture of AIMP2 causes crossing of pneumonocyte to breed (Kim, people such as M.J., Nat.Genet.34,330-336 (2003)), we have detected the getting in touch of unusual and lung cancer formation of AIMP2.We pass through at AIMP2
           + /+ And AIMP2
           +/- Intraperitoneal injection chemical carcinogen benzene in the mouse-(α)-pyrene (BP, Wang, people such as Y, Cancer Res.63,4389-4395 (2003)) is induced lung tumor, and the tumour in the monitoring lung forms.In 6 weeks after the BP administration, observe AIMP2
           +/- The incidence of lung tumor is 50-70% in the mouse, and goes out that about 30% among the cub (Fig. 6 a), this hint heterozygosis mouse generates more responsive to BP inductive tumour in that wild-type is brood.From AIMP2
           +/- Three in the mouse in isolating four lungs have shown tumour, and three AIMP2
           + /+ Only there are a generation tumour and all these tumours all to produce DX2 (Figure 10) in the mouse, further supported the cognation that DX2 and tumour form.But we compare inflammation in people's lung do not have the AIMP2 level of tumour and tumor tissues then.DX2 only produces (Fig. 6 b) in tumor tissues.Form the possibility that may depend on Different Individual in order to get rid of AIMP2 level and DX2, we carry out RT-PCR and immunofluorescence analysis to isolating a pair of normal and tumor tissues from same patient.In the cancer zone, do not detect DX2 (Fig. 6 e and 6f, the patient 22872) in the example of the normal AIMP2 level of demonstration.
         
   Embodiment  6 
 The contact of AIMP2, AIMP2DX2 and deletion mutation body thereof 
 In people's tissue and cancerous cell line, detect the relation of AIMP2, AIMP2DX2 and deletion mutation body and cancer. 
 Forming from the AIMP2DX2 in the normal and cancerous tissue of hepatocellular carcinoma by the RT-PCR evaluation.In addition, (Figure 11 a) for the AIMP2DX2 formation in the detection different carcinoma clone.With cell in 6 orifice plates with 1 * 10
           5 Density cultivate and after 24 hours, collect.The cell of collecting mixes with 4% primary isoamyl alcohol that contains acid phenol (pH4.3) and chloroform with the cracking of GSS damping fluid, and is centrifugal then.The supernatant liquor of centrifugal acquisition obtains precipitation subsequently with isopropanol precipitating and recentrifuge.Precipitation is with alcohol flushing and be dissolved among the DW.RNA used primer SEQNos.16 and 17 to carry out PCR with M-MLV reversed transcriptive enzyme (invitrogen) in 1 hour at 42 ℃ of reverse transcriptions then, 1 minute 38 cycle of circulation of 95  ℃  1 minute, 60  ℃  1 minute and 72 ℃.AIMP2DX2 expresses (Figure 11 b) in lung cancer cell line (H226, H460, H322 and H290), embryonic kidney cell system (293), osteosarcoma cell line (SaOS2), skin cancer cell strain system (HaCAT) and breast cancer cell line (MCF7).
         
   Embodiment  7 
 Use the AIMP2 knock-out mice to tumorigenic research 
 In AIMP2DX2 knock-out mice and wild mouse, observe the susceptibility of tumour. 
 As a result of, having the mouse number of tumour and the tumour number of mouse in the AIMP2DX2 knock-out mice on skin all significantly increases.Specifically, when the tumour of mouse took place to be induced by DMBA and promoted by TPA, the ratio wild females control mice that AIMP2 knocks out tumour formation in the female mice increased about 1.3 times.In addition, AIMP2 knocks out the male control mice of ratio wild-type that tumour forms in the male mice increases about 2 times (Figure 12 b).The number that knocks out the tumour that forms in the female mice at AIMP2 has increased about 4 times than wild females control mice.The number that knocks out the tumour that forms in the male mice at AIMP2 has increased about 2 times (Figure 12 c and Figure 12 d) than the male control mice of wild-type. 
 Described a preferred embodiment of the present invention, being to be understood that its varient that falls into spirit of the present invention and modifying body is conspicuous for those skilled in the art, and scope of the present invention is determined by accessory claim and its coordinator. 
 
 Budapest treaty about the microbial preservation that is used for the patent purpose of international recognition 
 International form 
 Accepting of original preservation 
 According to 7.1 promulgations 
 Cause: parasol pine is grand 
 New woods hole, 151-742 Guang Jin district, South Korea Seoul ARS network center of pharmaceutical college of #56-1 Seoul National University 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I. microorganism identification 
 
 
 
 Deposit the people give with evaluation symbol dust Xi Shi intestinal bacteria (Escherichia coli) DH5@/p38DX2 
 International depositary institution give with preserving number: KCTC 10710BP 
 
 
 II. the scientific explanation and/or the taxonomy of being advised name 
 
 
 The microorganism that above-mentioned I identified has: the taxonomy name (it is obtainable indicating X) that [x] scientific explanation [] is advised 
 
 
 III. receive and accept 
 
 
 This world depositary institution accepts and accepts the microorganism of being named among the above-mentioned I on October 25th, 2004 
 
 
 The IV request. accepting of conversion 
 
 
 The microorganism that above-mentioned I named is in being received by this world depositary institution and request changes into preservation under the budapest treaty of being accepted by it with original preservation 
 
 
 V. international depositary institution 
 
 
 Title: Korea S typical case culture collection centre address: the Taejon, Korea 305-333 of Korea S life engineering college (KRIBB) space Song Qu Europe hole #52 
 Have the right to represent the people's of international depositary institution the signature date: on October 29th, 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sequence table 
 <110>Seoul National University Industry Foundation 
 <120>Use of AIMP2DX2 for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer 
 <150>KR20040097164 
 <151>2004-11-24 
 <150>KR20050039073 
 <151>2005-05-10 
 <160>21 
 <170>Kopatentln 1.71 
 <210>1 
 <211>756 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Homo sapiens 
 <220> 
 <221>CDS 
 <222>(1)..(753) 
 <223>p38DX2 amino acid sequence 
 <400>1 
 atg ccg atg tac cag gta aag ccc tat cac ggg ggc ggc gcg cct ctc    48 
 Met Pro Met Tyr Gln Val Lys Pro Tyr His Gly Gly Gly Ala Pro Leu 
 1               5                  10                  15 
 cgt gtg gag ctt ccc acc tgc atg tac cgg ctc ccc aac gtg cac ggc    96 
 Arg Val Glu Leu Pro Thr Cys Met Tyr Arg Leu Pro Asn Val His Gly 
 20                  25                  30 
 agg agc tac ggc cca gcg ccg ggc gct ggc cac gtg cag gat tac ggg   144 
 Arg Ser Tyr Gly Pro Ala Pro Gly Ala Gly His Val Gln Asp Tyr Gly 
 35                  40                  45 
 gcg ctg aaa gac atc gtg atc aac gca aac ccg gcc tcc cct ccc ctc   192 
 Ala Leu Lys Asp Ile Val Ile Asn Ala Asn Pro Ala Ser Pro Pro Leu 
 50                  55                  60 
 tcc ctg ctt gtg ctg cac agg ctg ctc tgt gag cac ttc agg gtc ctg    240 
 Ser Leu Leu Val Leu His Arg Leu Leu Cys Glu His Phe Arg Val Leu 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 tcc acg gtg cac acg cac tcc tcg gtc aag agc gtg cct gaa aac ctt    288 
 Ser Thr Val His Thr His Ser Ser Val Lys Ser Val Pro Glu Asn Leu 
 85                  90                  95 
 ctc aag tgc ttt gga gaa cag aat aaa aaa cag ccc cgc caa gac tat    336 
 Leu Lys Cys Phe Gly Glu Gln Asn Lys Lys Gln Pro Arg Gln Asp Tyr 
 100                 105                 110 
 cag ctg gga ttc act tta att tgg aag aat gtg ccg aag acg cag atg    384 
 Gln Leu Gly Phe Thr Leu Ile Trp Lys Asn Val Pro Lys Thr Gln Met 
 115                 120                 125 
 aaa ttc agc atc cag acg atg tgc ccc atc gaa ggc gaa ggg aac att    432 
 Lys Phe Ser Ile Gln Thr Met Cys Pro Ile Glu Gly Glu Gly Asn Ile 
 130                 135                 140 
 gca cgt ttc ttg ttc tct ctg ttt ggc cag aag cat aat gct gtc aac    480 
 Ala Arg Phe Leu Phe Ser Leu Phe Gly Gln Lys His Asn Ala Val Asn 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 gca acc ctt ata gat agc tgg gta gat att gcg att ttt cag tta aaa    528 
 Ala Thr Leu Ile Asp Ser Trp Val Asp Ile Ala Ile Phe Gln Leu Lys 
 165                 170                 175 
 gag gga agc agt aaa gaa aaa gcc gct gtt ttc cgc tcc atg aac tct    576 
 Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Glu Lys Ala Ala Val Phe Arg Ser Met Asn Ser 
 180                 185                 190 
 gct ctt ggg aag agc cct tgg ctc gct ggg aat gaa ctc acc gta gca    624 
 Ala Leu Gly Lys Ser Pro Trp Leu Ala Gly Asn Glu Leu Thr Val Ala 
 195                 200                 205 
 gac gtg gtg ctg tgg tct gta ctc cag cag atc gga ggc tgc agt gtg    672 
 Asp Val Val Leu Trp Ser Val Leu Gln Gln Ile Gly Gly Cys Ser Val 
 210                 215                 220 
 aca gtg cca gcc aat gtg cag agg tgg atg agg tct tgt gaa aac ctg    720 
 Thr Val Pro Ala Asn Val Gln Arg Trp Met Arg Ser Cys Glu Asn Leu 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 gct cct ttt aac acg gcc ctc aag ctc ctt aag tga                    756 
 Ala Pro Phe Asn Thr Ala Leu Lys Leu Leu Lys 
 245                 250 
 <210>2 
 <211>251 
 <212>PRT 
 <213>Homo sapiens 
 <400>2 
 Met Pro Met Tyr Gln Val Lys Pro Tyr His Gly Gly Gly Ala Pro Leu 
 1               5                  10                  15 
 Arg Val Glu Leu Pro Thr Cys Met Tyr Arg Leu Pro Asn Val His Gly 
 20                  25                  30 
 Arg Ser Tyr Gly Pro Ala Pro Gly Ala Gly His Val Gln Asp Tyr Gly 
 35                  40                  45 
 Ala Leu Lys Asp Ile Val Ile Asn Ala Asn Pro Ala Ser Pro Pro Leu 
 50                  55                  60 
 Ser Leu Leu Val Leu His Arg Leu Leu Cys Glu His Phe Arg Val Leu 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Ser Thr Val His Thr His Ser Ser Val Lys Ser Val Pro Glu Asn Leu 
 85                  90                  95 
 Leu Lys Cys Phe Gly Glu Gln Asn Lys Lys Gln Pro Arg Gln Asp Tyr 
 100                 105                 110 
 Gln Leu Gly Phe Thr Leu Ile Trp Lys Asn Val Pro Lys Thr Gln Met 
 115                 120                 125 
 Lys Phe Ser Ile Gln Thr Met Cys Pro Ile Glu Gly Glu Gly Asn Ile 
 130                 135                 140 
 Ala Arg Phe Leu Phe Ser Leu Phe Gly Gln Lys His Asn Ala Val Asn 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Ala Thr Leu Ile Asp Ser Trp Val Asp Ile Ala Ile Phe Gln Leu Lys 
 165                 170                 175 
 Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Glu Lys Ala Ala Val Phe Arg Ser Met Asn Ser 
 180                 185                 190 
 Ala Leu Gly Lys Ser Pro Trp Leu Ala Gly Asn Glu Leu Thr Val Ala 
 195                 200                 205 
 Asp Val Val Leu Trp Ser Val Leu Gln Gln Ile Gly Gly Cys Ser Val 
 210                 215                 220 
 Thr Val Pro Ala Asn Val Gln Arg Trp Met Arg Ser Cys Glu Asn Leu 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Ala Pro Phe Asn Thr Ala Leu Lys Leu Leu Lys 
 245                250 
 <210>3 
 <211>20 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer  6 
 <400>3 
   agtgctttgg agaacagaat                                        20 
 <210>4 
 <211>20 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer  7 
 <400>4 
   aagagcagag ttcatggagc                                      20 
 <210>5 
 <211>20 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer  1 
 <400>5 
   tctgacggtt tctgagcgtt                                       20 
 <210>6 
 <211>20 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer  5 
 <400>6 
   aagtgaatcc cagctgatag                                            20 
 <210>7 
 <211>21 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>primer DX2-F 
 <400>7 
 tgctttggtt ctgccatgcc g                                       21 
 <210>8 
 <211>21 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>primer DX2-B 
 <400>8 
 cgtaatcctg cacgtggcca g                                          21 
 <210>9 
 <211>54 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>si- DX2# 3 coding nucleic acid sequence 
 <400>9 
 tcgaggccac gtgcaggtta cgggagtagg ccgtaatcct gcacgtggcc tttt               54 
 <210>10 
 <211>55 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>si- DX2# 3 coding nucleic acid sequence 
 <400>10 
 ctagaaaagg ccacgtgcag gattacggca gactcccgta atcctgcacg tggcc                55 
 <210>11 
 <211>58 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>si- DX2# 4 coding nucleic acid sequence 
 <400>11 
 tcgagctggc cacgtgcagg attacgagta ctggtaatcc tgcacgtggc cagctttt           58 
 <210>12 
 <211>58 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>si- DX2# 4 coding nucleic acid sequence 
 <400>12 
 ctagaaaagc tggccacgtg caggattacc agtactcgta atcctgcacg tggccagc           58 
 <210>13 
 <211>56 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>si- DX2# 5 coding nucleic acid sequence 
 <400>13 
 tcgacacgtg caggat tacg gggcgagtac tggccccgta atcctgcacg tgtttt              56 
 <210>14 
 <211>56 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>si- DX2# 5 coding nucleic acid sequence 
 <400>14 
 ctagaaaaca cgtgcaggat tacggggcca gtactcgccc cgtaatcctg cacgtg              56 
 <210>15 
 <211>15 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>RT primer 
 <400>15 
   cagcaccacg tctgc                                                                  15 
 <210>16 
 <211>24 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>primer DX2-S2 
 <400>16 
 ctggccacgt gcaggat tac gggg                                                     24 
 <210>17 
 <211>30 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>primer f3 
 <400>17 
 gagcatctga gtttgacccc tggaatctac                                            30 
 <210>18 
 <211>35 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>priemr r2 
 <400>18 
 ttgcaggatg ttggttacgt ccaagtctgc atctg                                      35 
 <210>19 
 <211>31 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>Artificial Sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>priemr f6 
 <400>19 
 gtcaccgaat gtaactgtgc tggcttcgaa g                                          31 
 <210>20 
 <211>30 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>primer pK0f2 
 <400>20 
 ggtaggtcca gagtcttcag agatcaagtc                                           30 
 <210>21 
 <211>30 
 <212>DNA 
 <213>primer r6 
 <400>21 
 ccataaccca ggt tgacggg tttagtgccc                                                30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
