
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It is adapted to the melanocyte of keratinocyte or its CFU-GM and it is prepared
Method 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to be adapted to the melanocyte of keratinocyte or the melanoblast as its CFU-GM.Enter
One step, the present invention relates to for producing the melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte or the one-tenth melanin as its CFU-GM thin
The method of born of the same parents. 
 
 
 Background technology 
 In epidermis, melanocytic quantity is few, is 1/10th of keratinocyte quantity.According to traditional separation
Method, melanocyte can separate by the following method: the epidermal area obtained by processing Bacillus polymyxa Neutral proteinase on skin tissues
Upper further treatment enzyme such as trypsin obtains independent cell, then provide to described cell contain specificity growth factor or
The culture medium of chemotactic factor and only allow melanocyte survive.Only exist seldom in view of described melanocyte and except cultivating
Base is outer without his specific separation method, separates melanocyte the most ex vivo and has no efficiency and can say.Therefore, with cutin shape
Becoming cell to compare commercial melanocytic price can be relatively expensive. 
 On the other hand, from live body, isolated melanocyte has limited uniformity and multiplication capacity.Further, have
Report claims, when using just isolated melanocyte from described epidermal area in vitro, and the described cell stimulation milli to UVB etc.
Reactionless, again or the expression of the gene relevant to B16 cell has decline.In order to solve the problems referred to above, the method for use
Have, as Human Keratinocytes and melanocytic co-cultivation process UVB or process single culture keratinocyte
There is provided this culture medium to melanocyte after UVB. 
 It is necessary that research and development are for separating melanocytic method: the method can overcome above-mentioned traditional method to separate
Melanocyte had the disadvantage that, thus make it have good uniformity and multiplication capacity, and owing to the two is thin
The external feature of born of the same parents with its in vivo time feature similarity and without studying melanocytic function by co-cultivation. 
 On the other hand, it is known that melanocyte is final by the melanocyte stem cell of the neural crest being derived from the period of development with as ancestral
The melanoblast differentiation of cell forms.Melanoblast has higher propagation and differentiation capability than melanocyte, and
And have as in growth course feature, i.e. cell migration (migration). 
 Done in Mice Body a lot of grow from stem cell of neural crest-melanoblast and break up melanocyte and
The research of the gene function relevant to said process, but through thin by using some differentiation initial stage labellings to be separated into melanin
The result of the test of born of the same parents, productivity is less than 5%.It is additionally, since mouse skin structure different from people, and does not exist and can divide often
The specific marker of individual differential period, therefore almost without about identify in people's adult epidermis the existence of melanoblast with
Not no or from skin histology, be directly separated melanoblast the report of method cultivated. 
 
 
 Summary of the invention 
 Technical problem 
 The present invention relates to provide a kind of melanocyte, this melanocyte is due to its good uniformity, implantation capability and life
Deposit ability and there is outstanding multiplication capacity. 
 The invention still further relates to provide the melanocyte with melanin Forming ability. 
 The invention still further relates to a kind of melanocyte, this melanocyte without to keratinocyte and melanocytic jointly
Cultivation processes UVB or after the single culture base of keratinocyte processes UVB, this culture medium is supplied to melanocyte etc.
Measure and this melanocyte individually can be studied. 
 The invention still further relates to provide a kind of melanocyte, this melanocyte is keeping the state of relation with keratinocyte
Under can adapt to described keratinocyte in vitro. 
 The invention still further relates to provide the human melanocytes separated and production method thereof. 
 The invention still further relates to provide human melanocytes and the production method thereof being adapted to keratinocyte. 
 Technical scheme 
 On the one hand, the present invention is provided to produce and be adapted to the melanocyte of keratinocyte or as its CFU-GM
The method of melanoblast, the method includes: (a) cultivates cutin in the keratinocyte culture medium of culture dish and formed
Cell；B () removes described keratinocyte from described culture medium；And (c) is from the cultivation removing described keratinocyte
Collect those in base and be attached to the cell bottom described culture dish, and in melanocyte culture medium or melanoblast culture medium
Cell collected by interior cultivation. 
 The method of one aspect of the present invention can be to be used for producing melanocytic method, and described melanocyte culture medium
Can be the basal medium being added with fill-in, wherein said basal medium comprises necessity and non-essential amino acid, dimension life
Element, organic compound, trace mineral and inorganic salt, but do not comprise antibiotic, antifungal, hormone, somatomedin or albumen
Matter, and described fill-in comprise hyclone, basic fibroblast growth factor, cattle pituitary extract, heparin, hydrogenation can
Pine, insulin, transferrins and 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA).Described fill-in can further include dimethyl
Sulfoxide (DMSO). 
 The method of one aspect of the present invention can be the method for producing melanoblast, and described one-tenth melanin is thin
Born of the same parents' culture medium can be the basal medium being added with fill-in, and wherein said basal medium comprises necessary and inessential amino
Acid, vitamin, organic compound, trace mineral and inorganic salt, but do not comprise antibiotic, antifungal, hormone, somatomedin
Or protein, and described fill-in comprises hyclone, basic fibroblast growth factor, cattle pituitary extract, heparin, hydrogen
Change cortisone, insulin, transferrins and endothelin-1. 
 The melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte of one aspect of the present invention can be to have in following characteristics extremely
The melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte of a few feature: (i) as the table of p75NTR of stem cell of neural crest labelling
The level that reaches is lower than constitutional melanocyte；(ii) the expression ratio of BRN2 carrying out expressing in melanoblast is former
The property sent out melanocyte is high；(iii) melanin content is higher than constitutional melanocyte；(iv) tyrosinase activity is more black than constitutional
Element cell wants height；(v) when cultivating in without 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA) culture medium, the table of p75NTR
The increment reaching level is higher than constitutional melanocyte；(vi) when cultivating in without PMA culture medium, the expression water of BRN2
Flat increment is lower than constitutional melanocyte；(vii) that cultivates in without PMA culture medium is adapted to keratinocyte
Melanocytic p75NTR expression is adapted to keratinocyte for cultivate in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
Melanocytic p75NTR expression relative ratios equal in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA cultivate constitutional
Melanocytic p75NTR expression is adapted to keratinocyte for cultivate in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
Melanocytic p75NTR expression ratio about 60～160%；(viii) the adaptation cultivated in without PMA culture medium
In keratinocyte melanocytic BRN2 expression in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA cultivate adaptation
Relative ratios in the melanocytic BRN2 expression of keratinocyte is equal in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
The melanocytic BRN2 expression being adapted to keratinocyte cultivated is in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
About 1～10 times of the ratio of the constitutional melanocytic BRN2 expression cultivated；And (ix) carry out 2 hours cultures
After, the ratio being attached to cell bottom culture dish is higher than constitutional melanocyte. 
 The melanoblast of one aspect of the present invention can be the melanoblast being adapted to keratinocyte, and it is special
Levy and be, the table of at least one the melanoblast labelling in MITF, DCT, TYRP1, SNAI2, C-KIT and EDNRB
The level that reaches is higher than constitutional melanocyte. 
 Beneficial effect 
 From on the one hand, the present invention can provide to be had outstanding because having uniformity, implantation capability and the survival ability of excellence
The melanocyte of multiplication capacity or melanoblast. 
 From on the one hand, the present invention can provide the melanocyte with melanin Forming ability. 
 From on the one hand, the present invention can provide a kind of melanocyte, and it can individually be made a search, and need not carry out as right
UVB is processed or to processing UVB on the keratinocyte of single culture on the keratinocyte of co-cultivation and melanocyte
After described culture medium is supplied to melanocytic measure. 
 On the one hand from, the present invention can provide and be able to maintain that while the relation of keratinocyte and adapt to external melanocyte
Cell or melanoblast. 
 From on the one hand, present invention can ensure that research melanocyte or the feasibility of melanoblast in vitro. 
 From an aspect of of the present present invention, by research melanocyte or the existence of melanoblast, breed, break up and regenerate
Can find cutaneous pigmentation such as nevus, freckle and senile plaque, achromia such as vitiligo (white macula and albinism) or poliosis, or
Cancer such as melanoma. 
 From on the one hand, the present invention can promote the formation for reducing chloasma and freckle and suppression melanin pigment calmness
Skin-lightening cosmetic and the development of medicine. 
 
 
 Accompanying drawing explanation 
 Accompanying drawing appended by conjunction with, from the following detailed description of middle can be more readily understood above-mentioned and other in terms of content, basis
The exemplary embodiment feature and advantage of invention: 
 Fig. 1 be illustrate firm separation and Culture cellular layer after bottom culture dish on remaining cell (A), to be grown on melanocyte thin
High-density growth after going up the most remaining cell (B) bottom culture dish in born of the same parents' culture medium and (B) cell being carried out time culture
The photo of melanocyte (C)； 
 Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 is the melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte in one embodiment of the invention, as formed from cutin
The specific gene (A, B) of the melanocyte (being adapted to the melanocyte of keratinocyte, KaMC) separated in cell
Make, with keratinocyte, the chart contrasted with the expression pattern of the specific gene (C) of keratinocyte； 
 Fig. 4 is contrast constitutional melanocyte (PMC) and the chart of the gene expression pattern of KaMC； 
 Fig. 5 is the photo (A) of the agglomerate color of contrast PMC Yu KaMC and contrasts the chart (B) of its tyrosinase activity； 
 Fig. 6 is the chart (A, B) that the presence or absence according to PMA respectively show the differential expression of PMC and KaMC； 
 Fig. 7 is chart and the displaying that the presence or absence according to PMA illustrates the differential expression of p75NTR and BRN2 in PMC and KaMC
The photo (E) of agglomerate color change； 
 Fig. 8 is the photo (A) of the initial stage implantation capability of contrast PMC and KaMC and contrasts the chart of its ability of cell proliferation
(B)； 
 Fig. 9 be illustrate firm separation and Culture cellular layer after bottom culture dish on remaining cell (A), be grown on PMA-
At PMA+ after going up the most remaining cell (B) bottom culture dish in melanocyte culture medium and (B) cell being carried out time culture
The photo (scale, 250 μm) of the melanocyte (C) of growth in melanocyte culture medium； 
 Figure 10 is the chart of the expression of each gene in each cell of the have to have no contrast according to PMA； 
 Figure 11 is the agglomerate face of KaMB and the KaMC being incubated in PMA+ culture medium that contrast is incubated in PMA-culture medium
The chart (B) of the photo (A) of color, the relatively tyrosinase activity of above-mentioned cell, contrast the photograph of the cell migration rate of above-mentioned cell
Sheet (C) and contrast photo (D) of various protein expression levels in above-mentioned cell； 
 Figure 12 be in PMA-culture medium or PMA+ culture medium growth each cell photo (A), illustrate along with time
Between the chart (B) of cell quantity of each cell and the contrast chart by the competence for added value of each cell of BrdU labelling
(C) (scale, 250 μm)；And 
 Figure 13 is the photo (ratio of each cell state after cultivating for a long time in PMA-culture medium or PMA+ culture medium
Chi, 250 μm). 
 
 
 Detailed description of the invention 
 Will be explained in detail the present invention below. 
 In this manual, term " constitutional melanocyte (PMC) " refers to the melanocyte being directly separated out from live body
Cell. 
 In this manual, term " is adapted to the melanoblast (KaMB) of keratinocyte " and refers to lead in vitro
Cross and cultivate the melanoblast that keratinocyte obtains. 
 In this manual, term " is adapted to the melanocyte (KaMC) of keratinocyte " and refers in vitro by training
The melanocyte that foster keratinocyte obtains, it has the melanocytic basic feature of constitutional, has at least one simultaneously
Plant different characteristic. 
 Terminology used here " keratinocyte culture medium " refers to the culture medium for cultivating Human keratinocytes,
It can be any one culture medium known in the art.Such as, described keratinocyte culture medium can be to hang down containing cattle
Body extract (BPE), hEGF (hEGF), bovine insulin, hydrocortisone and gentamycin and amphotericin-B
(GA-1000) culture medium.Further, in addition to mentioned component, it for containing epinephrine further and can also turn ferrum egg
White culture medium.Described can have KGM (Cat. No. CC-3001 at the example of the most obtainable culture medium；
Lonza), KGM BulletKit (Cat. No. CC-3111；Lonza)、KGM™ 2 BulletKit™ (Cat.
No. CC-3107；And KGM-Gold BulletKit (Cat. No. 192060 Lonza)；Lonza). 
 Referring to for cultivating melanocytic culture medium used herein of " melanocyte culture medium ", it can be this area
Any one culture medium known in.Such as, it can be that melanin forms culture medium, wherein containing being necessary and inessential amino
Acid, vitamin, organic compound, trace mineral and inorganic salt, but do not comprise antibiotic, antifungal, hormone, somatomedin
Or protein.Preferably, described melanocyte culture medium can grow containing to necessary to melanocytic growth for being added with
The culture medium of the fill-in of the factor, hormone and tissue extract, to inoculate human melanocytes and to be allowed to breed for a long time.Such as,
Described fill-in can comprise hyclone, basic fibroblast growth factor, cattle pituitary extract, heparin, hydrocortisone,
Insulin, transferrins and 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA).It is sub-that described fill-in can further include dimethyl
Sulfone (DMSO). 
 The example of described fill-in can be people's melanocyte growth fill-in (HMGS, cat. # S-002-5,
Cascade Biologics).The example for melanocytic basal medium of the most visible HMGS of being added with has
M254 culture medium (Cascade Biologics). 
 Referring to the culture medium for being trained melanocyte used herein of " melanoblast culture medium ", it is permissible
For any one culture medium known in the art.Such as, it can be melanoblast culture medium, and it is required and non-wherein to comprise
Essential amino acids, vitamin, organic compound, trace mineral and inorganic salt, but do not comprise antibiotic, antifungal, hormone,
Somatomedin or protein.Preferably, described melanoblast culture medium can be to be added with containing to melanoblast
The culture medium of the fill-in of the necessary somatomedin of growth, hormone and tissue extract, to cover people's melanoblast also
It is allowed to propagation long-time.Such as, described fill-in can comprise hyclone, basic fibroblast growth factor, Niu Chuiti carry
Take thing, heparin, hydrocortisone, insulin, transferrins and endothelin-1. 
 Described fill-in can be to grow fill-in-2(PMA-Free HMGS-2, cat. without PMA people's melanoblast
# S-016-5, Cascade Biologics).The most visible basis for melanoblast being added with HMGS-2
The example of culture medium can be M254 culture medium (Cascade Biologics). 
 Terminology used here " containing PMA culture medium " refers to comprise the cultivation of 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA)
Base, it can help toward melanocytic differentiation. 
 Terminology used here " calcium culture medium " refers to add the keratinocyte culture medium of calcium.Such as, it can be
Add concentration and be about 1.0～1.6 mM or the CaCl of 1.2～1.4 mM 2 Calcium culture medium in keratinocyte culture medium. 
 Terminology used here " without 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA) culture medium " refers to for cultivating people
The culture medium of melanocyte, wherein without PMA, but comprises endothelin-1.The example of the most visible culture medium has interpolation
With or without PMA HMGS-2(Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:S-016-5) M254 culture medium. 
 Terminology used here " p75NTR " refer to the low affinity nerve element nutrition as stem cell of neural crest labelling because of
Sub-receptor, its deposit number is ACCESSION No. NM_002507, VERSION:NM_002507.3, GI:
295842401。 
 Terminology used here " BRN2 " refers to the 3 grades of homology frames 2 of homo sapiens POU expressed in melanoblast
(POU3F2) mRNA.Its deposit number is ACCESSION No. NM_005604, VERSION:NM_005604.2, GI:
51702520。 
 Terminology used here " EDNRB " refers to human endothelin receptor B type (NM_001122659.2) gene, and it is positioned at
Chr. 13: 78469616 – 78492966。 
 Terminology used here " C-KIT " refers to people's v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma Viral Carcinogenesis base
Because of congener (NM_001093772.1) gene, it is positioned at Chr. 4:55524095 55606881. 
 Terminology used here " SNAI2 " refers to people Limax congener 2(NM_003068.4), it is positioned at Chr. 8:
49830236 – 49833988。 
 Terminology used here " MITF " refers to people's eyeball association transcription factor (NM_198158.2), and it is positioned at Chr. 3:
69788586 – 70017488。 
 Terminology used here " DCT " refers to people's dopachrome isomerase, and it is positioned at Chr. 13:95091835
95131936。 
 Terminology used here " TYRP1 " refers to human tyrosinase associated protein 1 (NM_000550.2), and it is positioned at Chr.
9: 12693386 – 12710266。 
 Terminology used here " 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA) " refers to induce melanocyte differen-tiation
Material. 
 Melanocyte is that one can produce the melanic cell of protectiveness, and it has modal dendron thin with substrate
Born of the same parents are present in stratum basale with about 1:4～1:10 ratio.Each melanocyte can be by dendron and composition basal layer or spine
36 keratinocytes (pigmentation unit) contact of layer.Melanin has the nucleus from UV protection keratinocyte
Function.Therefore, what we were known is have a small amount of melanic people easy skin carcinoma.Melanocyte number is not had between ethnic group
The difference of amount, but quantity and size, blackening degree, the distribution of melanosome of melanosome can be there is between ethnic group and formed at cutin
The difference of the melanin amount under accumulating because of degraded in cell.Therefore, skin color is determined by these factors.It is known that to black
Quantity and the melanocytic quantity of the tryrosinase that pigment synthesis is important can decline with advancing age.Melanocyte is
In growth course, derive from the cell of neural crest, and from melanocyte stem cell with become melanin thin as its CFU-GM
Born of the same parents' differentiation forms and can synthesize and discharge melanic melanocyte. 
 According to one embodiment of present invention, it is adapted to the melanocyte of keratinocyte or as its ancestral for production
The method of the melanoblast of cell, comprising: cultivate cutin shape in the keratinocyte culture medium that (a) is in culture dish
Become cell；B () removes described keratinocyte from described culture medium；And (c) collects from described culture medium (this culture medium
In keratinocyte be removed), the cell being attached on bottom described culture dish, then at melanocyte culture medium
Or the cell collected by cultivating in melanoblast culture medium. 
 The keratinocyte of step (a) can be Human keratinocytes. 
 Described Human keratinocytes can be any one keratinocyte being derived from human body.Except direct from human body
Carry out outside the keratinocyte cultivated after separating or separating, it is also possible to use the cutin being derived from other cells to be formed carefully
Born of the same parents.Can be that the NHEK-Neo provided by Lonza mixes (neonate from the example of the most visible Human keratinocytes
Normal human epidermal's keratinocyte, mixing: Cat. No. 00192906, tissue sampling number: P867, white people), NHEK-
Neo (Cat. No. 00192907, tissue sampling numbering: 20647, white people), NHEK-Adult (Cat. No.
00192627, tissue sampling numbering: 21155, white people), NHEK-Neo (Cat. No. 00192907, tissue sampling numbers:
18080, black race).The feature carrying out breeding to maintain keratinocyte to be attached on basement membrane, preferably can be with about
0.1～0.2% gelatin or about 1～10 g/ml collagen Types I coating culture dish.Described cell can cultivate about 35～37 DEG C, 5
～10%CO 2 Couveuse in, wait arrival about 70～carry out time culture during 80% density. 
 Described step (b) comprises the steps that and (i) adds calcium in keratinocyte culture medium, forms calcium culture medium, will be trained
The keratinocyte supported is cultivated in described calcium culture medium；(ii) go deliming culture medium, clean described cell, use cutin
Cell described in the formation cell culture medium described culture medium of replacing again culture；(iii) remove described culture medium, clean described
Cell, then hatches described cell；And it is (iv) next by adding buffer or keratinocyte culture medium in incubating cells
Isolate lamellar keratinocyte. 
 In step (a), when the result cultivating described keratinocyte in keratinocyte culture medium makes culture dish
On the cell cultivated reach about 80～during 100% fusion rate, step (b) can be moved on to from step (a).Preferably, this time point is
When cultivating described cell, fusion rate reaches about 90～100%.Put between at this moment by described culture medium being replaced by calcium cultivation
Base, can stimulate the differentiation of keratinocyte, thus induced synthesis lamellar. 
 In step (b) (i) can be to add calcium in keratinocyte culture medium, form calcium culture medium, by cutin
Form cell to cultivate 2～6 days in described calcium culture medium.Described cultivation can carry out about 2～3 days.Cultivating the above time can help
Effective differentiation of described keratinocyte, cultivates cuticular cellulose if helping to be formed.Cultivation in described calcium culture medium
Can also be at about 35～37 DEG C, about 5～10%CO 2 Couveuse in carry out. 
 Step (ii) can be by training in calcium culture medium with buffer or the cleaning of keratinocyte culture medium
The keratinocyte supported, thus go deliming, add keratinocyte culture medium the most wherein.Described buffer is not subject to
Limiting especially, such as it can be phosphate buffer (PBS, pH 7.4) and/or Hank ' s buffer salt solution (HBSS, pH
7.4).Described cell for cleaning cell several times by keratinocyte culture medium rather than can also be carried out clearly with buffer
Wash.The cell of described cleaning can be cultivated about 3～7 days again in keratinocyte culture medium. 
 Step (iii) in, the removable described culture medium when the color of the new culture medium changed no longer changes.Described
Culture medium can during the culture again of above-mentioned about 3～7 days in be removed.After complete described culture medium to be removed, by buffering
Liquid cleans described cell, then hatches.Described buffer for cleaning can be, such as PBS.Described hatching can be by using
The cell that cap covers is cleaned is carried out, and then preserves about 5～10 minutes in couveuse.By hatching above-mentioned time, institute
State keratinocyte and can easily be separated into the cuticular cellulose cultivated. 
 Step (iv) in, described incubating cells adds buffer or the process of keratinocyte culture medium again
In, the described cuticular cellulose cultivated can be automatically separated slabbing.Described buffer can be, such as PBS. 
 Can be, after removing described keratinocyte in step (b), to collect and be attached at the bottom of culture dish in step (c)
Cell in portion, then cultivates described cell in melanocyte culture medium or melanoblast culture medium. 
 In step (c), after the complete cuticular cellulose cultivated to be removed, with culture dish described in PBS several times, then
Use accutase(Millipore；Cat. No., SCR005) process about 3～10 minutes.Separated by centrifugation precipitation
Cell, transfer it to common culture dish or with gelatin, as on the culture dish that 0.1% gelatin is coated.Open from this
Beginning, available melanocyte culture medium cultivates described cell.Described melanocyte culture medium can be the basis being added with fill-in
Culture medium, wherein said basal medium comprises required and non essential amino acid, vitamin, organic compound, trace mineral
And inorganic salt, but not comprising antibiotic, antifungal, hormone, somatomedin or protein, wherein said fill-in comprises tire cattle
Serum, basic fibroblast growth factor, cattle pituitary extract, dimethyl sulfoxide, heparin, hydrocortisone, insulin, turn
Ferritin and 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA).Such as, it can be to be added with human melanocytes growth fill-in
(HMGS; Cascase Biology；Cat. No.:S-002-5) M254(Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:
M-254-500) culture medium.When described cell density reaches about 70～90%, described cell can be carried out time culture. 
 In step (c), after the complete cuticular cellulose cultivated to be removed, with culture dish described in PBS several times, then
Use accutase(Millipore；Cat. No., SCR005) process about 3～10 minutes.Separated by centrifugation precipitation
Cell after, described cell is transferred to common culture dish or with gelatin, as on the culture dish that 0.1% gelatin is coated.From
This starts, cell described in available melanoblast culture medium culturing.Described melanoblast culture medium can be to be added with
The basal medium of fill-in, wherein said basal medium comprises required and non essential amino acid, vitamin, organic compound
Thing, trace mineral and inorganic salt, but do not comprise antibiotic, antifungal, hormone, somatomedin or protein, wherein said
Fill-in comprises hyclone, basic fibroblast growth factor, cattle pituitary extract, heparin, hydrocortisone, islets of langerhans
Element, transferrins and endothelin-1.Such as, it can be to be added with human melanocytes growth fill-in-2(HMGS-2, without PMA；
Cascase Biology；Cat. No.:S-016-5) M254(Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:M-254-
500) culture medium.When described cell density reaches about 70～90%, described cell can be carried out time culture. 
 Or, in step (c), after having removed the cuticular cellulose cultivated, with culture dish described in PBS, then
Add the most immediately and be added with the M254 culture medium of HMGS-2 and again cultivate, then reach about when described cell density
When 70～90%, described cell is transferred in new culture dish, then described cell can be cultivated. 
 The melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte of one embodiment of the invention can be to have selected from following characteristics
In the melanocyte of at least one feature: (i) the expression ratio as the p75NTR of stem cell of neural crest labelling is primary
Property melanocyte is low；(ii) the expression of BRN2 carrying out expressing in melanoblast is than constitutional melanocyte
High；(iii) melanin content is higher than constitutional melanocyte；(iv) tyrosinase activity is higher than constitutional melanocyte；
(v) the expression water of the p75NTR being improved when cultivating in without 12-myristic acid-13-acetic acid phorbol (PMA) culture medium
Flat higher than constitutional melanocyte；(vi) the expression of the BRN2 being improved when cultivating in without PMA culture medium
Lower than constitutional melanocyte；(vii) that cultivates in without PMA culture medium is adapted to the melanocytic of keratinocyte
P75NTR expression is adapted to the melanocytic of keratinocyte with cultivation in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
The relative ratios of p75NTR expression is melanocytic equal to the constitutional cultivated in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
P75NTR expression is adapted to the melanocytic of keratinocyte with cultivation in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
About the 60～160% of the ratio of p75NTR expression；(viii) the cutin that is adapted to cultivated in without PMA culture medium is formed carefully
The melanocytic BRN2 expression of born of the same parents is adapted to keratinocyte with cultivation in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
Melanocytic BRN2 expression relative ratios equal in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA cultivate be adapted to angle
Matter forms the melanocytic BRN2 expression of cell and the constitutional melanocyte cultivated in the melanocyte culture medium containing PMA
About 1～10 times of the ratio of the BRN2 expression of cell；And (ix) carry out the secondary culture postadhesion of 2 hours at the bottom of culture dish
The ratio of the cell in portion is higher than constitutional melanocyte. 
 (i) the expression of p75NTR is low than constitutional melanocyte about 1/10 times.Further, p75NTR (i)
Expression low than constitutional melanocyte by about 1/20,1/30,1/40,1/50,1/60 or 1/70 times.Further, (i)
The expression of p75NTR is low than constitutional melanocyte about 1/10～1/1000 times.Further, the table of p75NTR (i)
The level that reaches low than constitutional melanocyte about 1/20～1/500,1/30～1/280,1/40～1/190 or 1/50～1/
140 times.Due to this species diversity on expression, maximizing one embodiment of the invention use the black of keratinocyte
The feature of element cell, even if having more preferable uniformity and multiplication capacity as compared constitutional melanocyte and do not have cutin to be formed
Cell also is able to continuously form melanic ability. 
 (ii) the expression of BRN2 is high than constitutional melanocyte about 5 times.Further, the expression of BRN2 (ii)
Level is high than constitutional melanocyte about 10 or 15 times.Further, the expression of BRN2 (ii) is than constitutional melanocyte
Cell high about 5～50,10～40,15～30 or 16～20 times.Due to this species diversity on expression, maximizing this
The melanocytic feature using keratinocyte of a bright embodiment, has preferably as compared constitutional melanocyte
Even if uniformity and multiplication capacity also do not have keratinocyte also to be able to continuously form melanic ability. 
 (iii) melanin content than constitutional melanocyte high about 2 times or more than.Further, melanin (iii) contains
Measure higher about 3 or 4 times than constitutional melanocyte.Further, melanin content (iii) than constitutional melanocyte high about 2～
10,3～5 or 3～4 times.Due to this species diversity on content, the use cutin shape of maximizing one embodiment of the invention
Become the melanocytic feature of cell, even if there is more preferable uniformity and multiplication capacity as compared constitutional melanocyte and do not have
Keratinocyte is had also to be able to continuously form melanic ability. 
 When hatching about 120 minutes at 37 DEG C, tyrosinase activity (iv) high than constitutional melanocyte about 2 times or
Above, 4 times or above or 8 times or more than.Further, it is higher about 2～32 times than constitutional melanocyte, 4～16 times or 6～
10 times.Due to this species diversity in activity, the melanocyte using keratinocyte of maximizing one embodiment of the invention
The feature of cell, even if having more preferable uniformity and multiplication capacity as compared constitutional melanocyte and do not have cutin to be formed carefully
Born of the same parents also are able to continuously form melanic ability. 
 (v) expression can be 2 times of constitutional melanocyte expression or more than.Further, expression (v)
Level can be about the 18 of constitutional melanocyte expression, 3～10 or 4～8 times.Due to this species diversity on expression,
The melanocytic feature using keratinocyte of maximizing one embodiment of the invention, as thin in compared constitutional melanocyte
Even if born of the same parents have more preferable uniformity and multiplication capacity and do not have keratinocyte also to be able to continuously form melanic ability. 
 (vi) expression can be about 9/10～1/10 times of constitutional melanocyte expression.Further,
(vi) expression can be about 7/10～3/10 times of constitutional melanocyte expression.This due on expression
Difference, the melanocytic feature using keratinocyte of maximizing one embodiment of the invention, as compared constitutional
Even if melanocyte has more preferable uniformity and multiplication capacity and does not has keratinocyte also to be able to continuously form melanin
Ability. 
 In expression (vii), the melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte cultivated in without PMA culture medium
P75NTR expression with in containing PMA melanocyte culture medium cultivate be adapted to the melanocytic of keratinocyte
The relative ratios of p75NTR expression can be that the constitutional cultivated in containing PMA melanocyte culture medium is melanocytic
P75NTR expression is adapted to the melanocytic of keratinocyte with cultivation in containing PMA melanocyte culture medium
About the 60 of the ratio of p75NTR expression～160%, 80～140% or 90～130%.Due to this difference on expression
Different, the melanocytic feature using keratinocyte of maximizing one embodiment of the invention is as black in compared constitutional
Even if element cell has more preferable uniformity and multiplication capacity and does not has keratinocyte also to be able to continuously form melanic
Ability. 
 In expression (viii), the melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte cultivated in without PMA culture medium is thin
The BRN2 expression of born of the same parents is adapted to the melanocytic of keratinocyte with cultivation in containing PMA melanocyte culture medium
The relative ratios of BRN2 expression is adapted to the black of keratinocyte equal to cultivate in containing PMA melanocyte culture medium
The BRN2 expression of element cell expresses water with the melanocytic BRN2 of constitutional cultivated in containing PMA melanocyte culture medium
About the 1 of flat ratio～10,2～8,3～7 or 4～6.Due to this species diversity on expression, the maximizing present invention one
The melanocytic feature using keratinocyte of individual embodiment, has the most uniformly as compared constitutional melanocyte
Even if property and multiplication capacity also do not have keratinocyte also to be able to continuously form melanic ability. 
 (ix) carry out the ratio of the secondary culture postadhesion of the about 2 hours cell bottom culture dish can be about 80% or
Above.(ix) carry out the ratio of the secondary culture postadhesion of the about 2 hours cell bottom culture dish can be about 90% or with
On.(ix) carry out the ratio of the secondary culture postadhesion of the about 2 hours cell bottom culture dish can be about 95% or more than.
The melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte of one embodiment of the invention may originate from keratinocyte.Especially, it can
It is derived from Human keratinocytes. 
 The melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte of another embodiment of the present invention can be by any of the above-described kind
The cell that method produces. 
 The melanocyte being adapted to keratinocyte of a preferred embodiment of the present invention will be according to Budapest bar
About within 14th, being saved in the Korea S's Culture Collection (KCTC) as International Depository Authority JIUYUE in 2011, its preservation is compiled
Number it is KCTC 12015BP. 
 The melanoblast separated from the keratinocyte cultivated of one embodiment of the invention can be
Be adapted to the melanoblast of keratinocyte, it is characterised in that selected from MITF, DCT, TYRP1, SNAI2, C-KIT and
In EDNRB, the expression of at least one melanoblast labelling higher than constitutional melanocyte or is adapted to cutin and is formed carefully
The melanocyte of born of the same parents. 
 In another embodiment of the invention, described melanoblast is characterised by, in MITF and DCT extremely
The expression of few a kind of melanoblast labelling is than constitutional melanocyte or to be adapted to the melanocyte of keratinocyte thin
Born of the same parents are high about 2 times or above, 3 times or above, 4 times or above or 5 times or more than.This high expression level can be to discriminate between this explanation
Described in melanoblast and constitutional melanocyte or be adapted to the melanocyte (KaMC) of keratinocyte
Distinguishing characteristics. 
 Further, in one embodiment, described melanoblast can be adapted to angle for having described in comparing
Matter forms at least one feature in the high BRN2 protein expression level of melanocyte of cell and low TYR protein expression level
Cell. 
 In another embodiment, described melanoblast can be when cultivating about 9 in melanoblast culture medium
It time cell quantity than germinal cell quantity increase about 20 times or above, 25 times or above, 30 times or above or 35 times or
Above cell.This high cell proliferation rate can be to discriminate between the melanoblast described in this explanation and constitutional melanocyte
Cell or be adapted to the distinguishing characteristics of melanocyte (KaMC) of keratinocyte. 
 Further, in another embodiment, even if described melanoblast can be in melanoblast culture medium
Inside carry out time culture about 6 times or above, 7 times or above, 8 times or above or 9 times or above also can the cell of continued growth.
This feature being able to maintain that long ability of cell proliferation can be to discriminate between the melanoblast described in this explanation
With constitutional melanocyte or the distinguishing characteristics of the melanocyte (KaMC) being adapted to keratinocyte. 
 The melanoblast being adapted to keratinocyte of one embodiment of the invention may originate from keratinocyte.
Especially, it may originate from Human keratinocytes. 
 The melanoblast being adapted to keratinocyte of another embodiment of the present invention can be by above-mentioned
The cell that a kind of method produces. 
 The melanoblast being adapted to keratinocyte of a preferred embodiment of the present invention will be according to Bu Dapei
This treaty is saved in the Korea S's Culture Collection (KCTC) as International Depository Authority on July 24th, 2012, and it is protected
Hide numbered KCTC 12250BP. 
 Will be explained in now embodiment (and experiment).Following example (and experiment) be merely to illustrate through for the purpose of, no
The scope of the present invention can be limited. 
 
 
 Embodiment 
 1. it is adapted to the melanocytic production of keratinocyte 
 A () cultivates the step of keratinocyte 
 As Human keratinocytes (Normal human epidermal's keratinocyte), use the NHEK-Neo provided by Lonza
Mixing (neonate Normal human epidermal's keratinocyte, mixing: Cat. No. 00192906).As being used for cultivating described people
The keratinocyte culture medium of keratinocyte, uses KGM-Gold BulletKit (Cat. No. 192060；
Lonza).It is attached on basement membrane and carries out, in order to maintain keratinocyte, the feature bred, use with 10 μ g/ml glue
The culture dish of former protein I type coating.At 37 DEG C, 5% CO 2 Couveuse in cultivate described cell, when described cell density reaches
Time culture is carried out when about 70%.Form, in order to induce described cutin to form stem cell, the cuticular cellulose cultivated, use KGM-
2 BulletKit(Cat. No. CC-3107；And 0.1% gelatin coating Lonza). 
 B () removes the step of keratinocyte 
 Remove described keratinocyte to cultivate cuticular cellulose from described culture dish with lamellar, use in cutin shape
High-concentration Ca such as 1.2 mM CaCl is ultimately joined in becoming cell culture medium 2 Calcium culture medium.Described rich in the culture medium of calcium
Cultivation can also be at identical 37 DEG C, 5% CO 2 Couveuse carry out.When described keratinocyte is cultured to described cell
When can cover bottom described culture dish (about 90% fusion rate), cultivate with changing described keratinocyte rich in calcium culture medium
Base, then cultivates 3 days.Described cultivated keratinocyte 3 times is cleaned to go with phosphate buffer (PBS, pH 7.4)
Except high-concentration Ca, change described culture medium by keratinocyte culture medium, then by described cell culture 4 days again.?
During this, remove described culture medium when the color of the new culture medium changed no longer changes, with cell described in PBS 2 times,
Close lid, then preserve 5 minutes in described couveuse.During rejoining PBS, the cuticular cellulose cultivated
It is automatically separated out.After just having removed cultivated cuticular cellulose, still surplus bottom described culture dish have cell. 
 With the cell left described in microscope observation, Fig. 1 (A) asked for an interview by its photo.As shown in Fig. 1 (A), formed carefully with cutin
Born of the same parents are different, and described cell has longer shape. 
 C () is collected from the culture removing keratinocyte and is attached to what the cell bottom culture dish carrying out was cultivated
Step 
 After removing the cuticular cellulose cultivated, with culture dish described in PBS 2 times, then use accutase
(Millipore；Cat. No., SCR005) process 5 minutes.Separated cell is made to precipitate, then by it by centrifugation
Transfer on the culture dish with 0.1% gelatin coating.From that point on, use is added with human melanocytes growth fill-in (HMGS；
Cascase Biology；Cat. No.:S-002-5) M254 (Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:M-254-
500) culture medium.As a result, observing cultivated cell with microscope, Fig. 1 (B) asked for an interview by its photo.As shown in Fig. 1 (B), described cell
There is bipolar shape. 
 When described cell density reaches about 80%, described cell is carried out time culture.Institute's time culture is observed with microscope
Cell, Fig. 1 (C) asked for an interview by its photo.As shown in Fig. 1 (C), the melanocyte separated from keratinocyte can carry out secondary
Culture, and there is good multiplication capacity. 
 2. the feature description of the melanocyte (KaMC) being adapted to keratinocyte produced from keratinocyte 
 As the constitutional melanocyte compared with described KaMC, use the NHEM-Neo(neonate provided by Lonza
Normal human melanocytes, Cat. No. cc-2504). 
 (1) qPCR analyzes 
 It is respectively washed separated KaMC with PBS；Keratinocyte (the Normal human epidermal's cutin shape provided by Lonza
Become cell) (KC) NHEK-Neo mixing (neonate Normal human epidermal's keratinocyte, mixing: Cat. No. 00192906)；
With constitutional melanocyte (PMC), then by use test kit (miRNeasy mini kit, Qiagen, Cat. No.
217004) total serum IgE is therefrom isolated.Then by using RT-PCR kit (SuperScript III First-Strand
Synthesis System for RT-PCR, Invitrogen, Cat. No. 18080-051) synthesis cDNA.By using
The primer (TaqMan Gene Expression Assays, Applied Biosystems) that is combined with gene specific and
SYBR(TaqMan Universal PCR Master Mix, Applied Biosystems;Cat. No., 4304437)
Using synthesized cDNA for template measure the SOX10 as described melanocyte lineage labelling, PAX3, MITF, TYR,
The mrna expression change of TYRP1, DCT, PMEL and NESTIN. 
 Its result is shown in fig. 2.As in figure 2 it is shown, find described KaMC table compared with described keratinocyte (KC)
Reach more Heisui River cell-specific genes. 
 On the other hand, the mrna expression change of the SOX10 as described melanocyte lineage labelling is measured.Its result is at figure
Show in 3(B).As shown in Fig. 3 (B), find that described KaMC expresses more conduct compared with described keratinocyte (KC)
The SOX10 of melanocyte specific gene, is 9,000,000 times of the latter. 
 On the other hand, measure as ITGA6, TP63 and keratin14(KRT14 of keratinocyte labelling) mRNA
Express change.It was found that the expression at described KaMC just has aobvious compared with described keratinocyte (KC) (FIG. 3 (C))
The minimizing write. 
 Further, when compared with described constitutional melanocyte (PMC), all of melanocyte specific gene is found
Expression does not has difference (Fig. 4 (A)), but the p75NTR as stem cell of neural crest labelling occurs excessively in described PMC
Express (Fig. 4 (B)), and known BRN2 expression in KaMC is many relative to meeting with expression in melanoblast. 
 (2) tyrosinase activity analysis 
 After removing described culture medium, with cell described in PBS 2 times, add lysate (Sigma) the most wherein to receive
Collect described cell.Extract the protein in described cell during rocking at 4 DEG C 1 hour, then pass through centrifugation
(1300 rpm, 15 minutes) make cell mass be separated from each other with extract. 
 Fig. 5 (A) is to separate in melanocyte culture medium the agglomerate photo of shooting after PMC and KaMC of growth.Such as Fig. 5 (A)
Shown in, find that the melanocyte (KaMC) being adapted to keratinocyte of one embodiment of the invention is than described constitutional melanocyte
Cell (PMC) comprises more melanin.Both cells described all derive from white people.Therefore, the difference of melanin content shows
Write. 
 On the other hand, the extract separated is moved to new E-tube, then uses BCA(bicinchoninic acid) (Pierce,
Cat. No.:23227) carry out quantification of protein.40 μ g protein in 96 orifice plates add lysate become to termination capacity
Being 100 μ l, (Sigma, Cat. No. D-9628, in 0.1 M phosphate buffer to add 100 μ l L-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanines the most wherein
Containing 2 mg/ml, filter), and at 37 DEG C, react the various time period (15,30,60,120 minutes).Each response time section it
After, by using microwell plate detector to measure the absorbance at 490 nm. 
 Its result is shown in Fig. 5 (B).As shown in Figure 5 (B), along with the increase of brooding time, the tyrosine of described KaMC
Enzymatic activity the most slowly increases, and after hatching 120 minutes, the tyrosinase activity of described KaMC exceeds about 8 times than described PMC. 
 (3) analysis reactive to PMA 
 In order to confirm to induce the effect of the PMA of melanocyte differen-tiation, use and be used for carrying out being added with of time culture
The Biologics of HMGS-2(Cascade without PMA, Cat. No.:S-016-5) M-254 culture medium (PMA-).Its result with
From being added with human melanocytes growth fill-in (HMGS；Cascase Biology；Cat. No.:S-002-5) M254
In the cell cultivated in (Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:M-254-500) culture medium, the result of gained contrasts
(PMA+).Its result is shown in figure 6 and figure 7. 
 When add to dedifferente broken up melanocyte and during PMA-culture medium well-known, containing Endothelin, institute
State and between the expression of the melanocyte specific gene in PMC and described KaMC, have few difference (Fig. 6 (A and B)), but
When cultivating in PMA-culture medium, the expression water of the BRN2 in the expression of the p75NTR in described KaMC and described PMC
Put down and (Fig. 7 (C and D)) is greatly improved compared with the result when cultivating in described PMA+ culture medium.Especially, at described PMA-
The expression of the p75NTR in the KaMC cultivated in culture medium is in the KaMC of cultivation in described PMA+ culture medium
The ratio of the expression of p75NTR rises to and the expression of the p75NTR in the PMC cultivated in described PMA+ culture medium
For the level (Fig. 7 (C)) that the ratio (Fig. 4 (B)) of the expression of the p75NTR in KaMC is similar.Further, described
The expression of the BRN2 in the PMC cultivated in PMA-culture medium is in the PMC of cultivation in described PMA+ culture medium
The ratio of the expression of BRN2 rises to and the expression pair of the BRN2 in the KaMC cultivated in described PMA+ culture medium
The level (Fig. 7 (D)) that the ratio (Fig. 4 (C)) of the expression of the BRN2 in PMC is similar. 
 Additionally, carry out cultivating in described PMA-culture medium it was found that the color of described KaMC agglomerate is also shoaling
(Fig. 7 (E)).This indicates, described KaMC can form more melanin than PMC, and this melanic formation can be according to institute
State and the PMA presence or absence of melanocyte differen-tiation can be induced to be controlled. 
 In short, expect induce melanocytic differentiation by the expression of control p75NTR and BRN2 and dedifferente, and
And the most also can control melanic formation. 
 (4) contrast of ability and survival ability and ability of cell proliferation it is initially implanted into 
 In order to confirm implantation capability and survival ability at second generation Initial stage of culture, carry out 2 hours times under the same conditions and be commissioned to train
The state of described cell is observed after Yanging.Preferably, it is transferred to described KaMC and PMC apply on the culture dish of 0.1% gelatin, so
It is being added with human melanocytes growth fill-in (HMGS at latter 37 DEG C; Cascase Biology；Cat. No.:S-002-5)
M254(Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:M-254-500) carry out in culture medium 2 hours cultivating.Its result is at figure
Show in 8(A).As shown in Fig. 8 (A), find for described KaMC, in 2 hours the cell attachment of 95% or above in
On bottom culture dish, carry out forming the dendron shape extended, but for described PMC, described cell attachment is bad, in phase
With most cells in the period floating.In Fig. 8 (A), what arrow pointed to is floating cell. 
 On the other hand, in order to confirm implantation capability, survival ability and ability of cell proliferation, use by utilizing BrdU
The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of (Roche, Cat. No.:11647229001).By utilizing 0.4% trypan blue to contaminate
Normal complexion cell counter carries out cell counting.Plating cell number (3 x 10 of described PMC Yu KaMC 4 ) identical.Although such as
This, after finding to carry out plating, the quantity of the PMC that the BrdU of first day marks becomes lower (Fig. 8 (B)) than described KaMC.
Without how much difference on the doubling time.Therefore, the good multiplication capacity of the KaMC as shown in Fig. 1 (C) can show that in second generation
Incubation has excellence implantation capability and survival ability and breeding and have the ability propagation cell have a lot. 
 3. it is adapted to the production of the melanoblast (KaMB) of keratinocyte 
 A () cultivates the step of keratinocyte 
 With with 1(a) described in same procedure cultivate Human keratinocytes. 
 B () removes the step of keratinocyte 
 With with 1(a) described in same procedure isolate lamellar keratinocyte.As a result, still remain bottom culture dish
There are some cells. 
 Observing remaining cell with microscope, its photo is shown in Fig. 9 (A).As shown in Fig. 9 (A), formed with described cutin
Cell is different, and described cell has longer shape. 
 C () is collected from the culture removing keratinocyte and is attached to what the cell bottom culture dish carrying out was cultivated
Step 
 After removing the cuticular cellulose cultivated, with culture dish described in PBS 2 times, then use accutase
(Millipore；Cat. No., SCR005) process 5 minutes.Separated cell is made to precipitate, then by it by centrifugation
Move on new culture dish.From that point on, use and be added with human melanocytes growth fill-in-2(HMGS-2, without PMA；
Cascase Biology；Cat. No.:S-016-5) M254 (Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:M-254-
500) culture medium.As a result, observing the cell cultivated with microscope, Fig. 9 (B) asked for an interview by its photo.When described cell density reaches
When about 80%, described cell is carried out time culture.It is being added with representative substances PMA for inducing melanocyte differen-tiation
When cultivating the cell of Fig. 9 (B) in melanocyte culture medium (M254/HMGS), it illustrates bipolar shape (Fig. 9 (C)). 
 4. the spy of the melanoblast (KaMB) being adapted to keratinocyte is produced by cultivating keratinocyte
Levy explanation 
 Constitutional melanocyte (PMC) for comparing with described KaMB can use the NHEM-Neo provided by Lonza
(neonate normal human melanocytes, Cat. No. cc-2504).Further, also prepare and being adapted to that described KaMB compares
The melanocyte (KaMC) of keratinocyte.Except being added with human melanocytes growth fill-in (HMGS；Cascase
Biology；Cat. No.:S-002-5) M254(Cascade Biologics, Cat. No.:M-254-500) culture medium
Outside the cell that interior cultivation is separated in step (c), obtain KaMC by the method identical with described KaMB.Further, respectively
Described cell is cultivated in PMA+ culture medium and PMA-culture medium. 
 (1) qPCR analyzes 
 It is respectively washed separated KaMB, KaMC and constitutional melanocyte (PMC), then by using reagent with PBS
Total serum IgE therefrom isolated by box (miRNeasy mini kit, Qiagen, Cat. No. 217004).Then by using RT-
PCR kit (SuperScript III First-Strand Synthesis System for RT-PCR,
Invitrogen, Cat. No. 18080-051) synthesis cDNA.Primer (the TaqMan being combined with gene specific by use
Gene Expression Assays, Applied Biosystems) and SYBR(TaqMan Universal PCR
Master Mix, Applied Biosystems;Cat. No., 4304437) measure work with synthesized cDNA for template
For the described melanoblast/NOTCH1 of melanocyte lineage labelling, SOX10, PAX3, EDNRB, c-KIT, SNAI2,
The change of the mrna expression of MITF, DCT, TYRP1, TYR and PMEL. 
 Its result is shown in Fig. 10.As shown in Figure 10, finding the RT-qPCR result as described KaMB, its ratio is in institute
It is black that the PMC cultivated in stating PMA-or PMA+ culture medium and the KaMC cultivated in described PMA+ culture medium can express more one-tenth
Pigment cell's labelling, such as EDNRB, c-KIT, SNAI2, MITF, DCT and TYRP1. 
 (2) tyrosinase activity analysis 
 After removing described culture medium, with cell described in PBS 2 times, add lysate (Sigma) the most wherein to receive
Collect described cell.Extract the protein in described cell during rocking at 4 DEG C 1 hour, then pass through centrifugation
(1300 rpm, 15 minutes) make cell mass be separated from each other with extract. 
 Figure 11 (A) is for isolating growth in not having to induce the culture medium of Substance P MA of melanocyte differen-tiation
The photo of the agglomerate of shooting after KaMB and the KaMC of the KaMB being derived from the culture medium containing PMA growth.The most visible, described
KaMB can be divided into melanocyte, and this melanocyte can form melanin under conditions of having PMA. 
 On the other hand, the extract separated is moved to new E-tube, then uses BCA(bicinchoninic acid) (Pierce,
Cat. No.:23227) carry out quantification of protein.40 μ g protein in 96 orifice plates add lysate become to termination capacity
100 μ l, (Sigma, Cat. No. D-9628, containing 2 in 0.1 M phosphate buffer to add 100 μ l L-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanines the most wherein
Mg/ml, filters), and at 37 DEG C, react the various time period (15,30,60,120 minutes).After each response time section, logical
Cross use microwell plate detector and measure the absorbance at 490 nm. 
 Its result is shown in Figure 11 (B).As shown in Figure 11 (B), along with the increase of brooding time, the cheese ammonia of described KaMC
Phytase activity has increase compared with described KaMB. 
 (3) cell mobility analysis 
 By each type of cell (5 x 10 4 ) it is inoculated in the thin of coating collagen Types I (ultimate density: 10 g/ml)
Born of the same parents cultivate in cell (Becton Dickinson, Cat. No.:353097, aperture: 8.0 mm), then cultivate 4 in 24 holes
Hour.After removing described culture medium, fix described cell 5～10 minutes with methanol.With hematoxylin, nucleus is dyeed 5 points
Clock, then cleans several times with water, then soaks about 5 minutes in Yihong to carry out Cytoplasm dyeing.Stand-by water cleans some
After secondary, inside shown cell, drain excessive moisture with cotton swab.Filter is only isolated from described cell, then by its heap with cutter
Amass on microscope slide.Result asks for an interview Figure 11 (C).Confirm the result of cell migration with Transwell, find in 4 hours described
KaMB illustrates superior animal migration compared with the KaMC broken up.Have in growth course based on intravital melanoblast
There is the feature of cell migration, can confirm that described KaMB has the feature of melanoblast. 
 (4) protein expressioning analysis 
 When cultivating described KaMB and KaMC on 100-mm culture dish respectively, and described cell density reaches about 80～90%
Time, with cell described in PBS.Add about 100～150 l lysates (Sigma) the most wherein, then scrape with cell
(SPL Life Sciences) collects described cell.In cryogenic refrigerator (4～8 DEG C), hatch described cell 10 minutes, then from
The heart separates 10 minutes.Then, the supernatant containing various protein moves in new pipe, by using BCA Protein Assay Reagent
Box (Thermo Scientific;Cat. No., 23227) carry out quantification of protein.Electrophoresis 15 g protein also moves to nitric acid
On cellulose membrane, the most respectively with antibody SOX10 (R&D systems, MAB2864), PAX3 (R&D systems,
MAB2457)、BRN2 (ProteinTech Group, 14596-1-AP)、MART1(Thermo Scientific, MS-
716)、TYRP2 (Santa Cruz biotechnology, C-9, sc-74439)、TYRP1 (Santa Cruz
biotechnology, H-90, sc-25543)、TYR (Santa Cruz biotechnology, H-109, sc-
15341) and GADPH (Santa Cruz biotechnology, FL-335, sc-25778) carries out western blotting.
As a result, in described KaMB, observe that specific b RN2 expresses (Figure 11 (D), asterisk), find in KaMC as being used for being formed
The expression of the tryrosinase (TYR) of melanic necessary protein has growth (Figure 11 (D), arrow).Owing to described BRN2 is people
The labelling of melanoblast, can confirm that isolated KaMB is melanoblast from described keratinocyte is cultivated. 
 (5) analysis reactive to PMA 
 Whether cause to confirm the feature of described melanoblast to derive from merely to be changed by culture medium goes point
Change, containing the melanocyte culture medium of the Substance P MA that can induce melanocyte differen-tiation and training without PMA melanoblast respectively
Described constitutional melanocyte and KaMB is cultivated in supporting base.It was found that described constitutional melanocyte is cultivated containing PMA described
Suitably grown in base, and described become in nigrosine medium without PMA almost cannot grow (Figure 12 (A), the 3rd, the
Four panels).In contrast.It is isolatable from what the KaMB of keratinocyte illustrated in without PMA melanoblast culture medium
Multiplication capacity ratio is containing the multiplication capacity in OMA melanocyte culture medium more preferably (Figure 12 (A), first, second panel).
As seen from the results, described KaMB be have from only cultivate in melanoblast culture medium obtain to dedifferente cell different
The cell of feature. 
 (6) cell growth curve 
 Inoculating each type of cell respectively in 24 orifice plates in 5 holes, every hole concentration is 3.4 x 10 4 Individual cell, then
Described cell quantity is measured at the 0th, 3,6,9 and 12 days.It was found that described KaMB cell illustrates best multiplication capacity (figure
12(B)). 
 (7) analysis of cell division capacity 
 Inoculating every kind of cell in every hole of 96 orifice plates, every hole concentration is 1 x 10 4 Individual cell, and cultivate 3 days.Then,
With cell proliferation ELISA method, BrdU test kit (Roche, Cat. No.:11 647 229 001), described cell is marked
Note, then measured absorbance every 10,20 and 30 minutes.Described BrdU has the DNA of cell that can be attached to carry out divide
On feature.It was found that dividing without the KaMB in PMA melanoblast culture medium and breed at most (Figure 12 (C).
(Figure 13, the 3rd panel) is changed without big when long-time (passage 9) cultivates described KaMB in without PMA culture medium, but institute
State constitutional melanocyte almost to breed in this culture medium, and also can be in institute when long-time (passage 6) is cultivated
State a lot of cavity of intracellular formation (Figure 13, first panel).Even if described KaMC and PMC is incubated at respectively containing PMA melanocyte
In cell culture medium, described KaMC illustrates more preferable multiplication capacity (Figure 12 (B, C)) than described PMC. 
 From this test result, it is isolatable from the KaMB during described keratinocyte is cultivated in described PMA-culture medium
Optimal multiplication capacity is inside shown, it is possible to the specifically protein of expressing gene marker melanoblast, and by making
For the Substance P MA of differentiation can be induced can be divided into melanocyte.Therefore, it is melanoblast.Further, find to be derived from
The KaMC of KaMB separated from described keratinocyte is cultivated thinks melanocyte to have preferably to breed energy with primary
Power.This can illustrate, the melanocyte ratio separated after adapting to conditions in vitro under keratinocyte environment is directly from skin
In skin tissue, isolated constitutional melanocyte has more preferable multiplication capacity. 
 Industrial applicability 
 On the one hand from, the present invention may be provided in maintain with the relation of keratinocyte while can adapt to external black
Element cell or melanoblast. 
 From another point of view, present invention can ensure that research melanocyte or the feasibility of melanoblast in vitro. 
 From another aspect of the present invention, by research melanocyte or the existence of melanoblast, breed, break up and again
Give birth to and find out such as nevus, freckle and the cutaneous pigmentation of age speckle, such as leukodermic achromia (white macula and albinism) or ash
Send out disease or such as the cause of cancer of melanoma and Therapeutic Method. 
 From on the one hand, the present invention can promote the formation for reducing chloasma and freckle and suppression melanin pigment calmness
Skin-lightening cosmetic and the development of medicine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
