
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Polyurethane, leather from biomass resource and sole polyurethane 
 The application is the division Shen for PCT International Application Serial No. PCTs/JP2011/057984 that the applying date is on 03 30th, 2011
Please, original application is application for a patent for invention, entitled " from biology into thenational phase application No. is 201180016195.3
The polyurethane and its manufacturing method of matter resource and the polyester polyol from biomass resource ". 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to the novel biological polyurethane from polyester polyol system biomass resource and its manufacturing method, with
And the polyester polyol from biomass resource.Specifically, being related to in following extensive mechanical properties useful on the way
With the polyurethane from polyester polyol system biomass resource of the physical property balancing good such as forming operation, since the purposes is
It is synthesis or dermatine, sole Foamex, thermoplastic resin manufactured by raw material from the polyester polyol of biomass resource
Fat, thermosetting resin, coating, lamination cement and elastomer etc.. 
 
 
 Background technology 
 In the past, be produced on an industrial scale polyurethane resin main soft segment portion i.e. polyalcohol be divided into polypropylene glycol and
The polyester polyols alcohol type representated by polyether-type, dicarboxylic acids system polyester representated by polytetramethylene glycol etc., polycaprolactone institute's generation
The polylactone of table and make carbonate source and glycol polycarbonate type obtained by the reaction (non-patent literature 1). 
 Although wherein polyether-type hydrolytic resistance, flexibility and retractility are excellent, it is believed that wearability and flex endurant
The mechanical strengths such as property or heat resistance and weatherability are poor.On the other hand, although existing polyester-type heat resistance and weatherability are changed
It is kind, but the hydrolytic resistance in ester portion is low, can not be used under certain purposes.Although compared with adipate ester, the hydrolysis of polylactone system
Property it is slightly excellent, but equally have ester group, so hydrolysis can not be completely inhibited. 
 Although in addition, polycarbonate type hydrolytic resistance and excellent in te pins of durability, polyalcohol itself and using it as raw material
The solution viscosity of manufactured polyurethane is high, haves the shortcomings that processing operation difference is such.In addition, someone also proposed these
The scheme that polyester-type, polyether-type, polylactone and polycarbonate type mix, are copolymerized to use, but can not make up completely respectively
The shortcomings that. 
 In addition, in recent years, during the whole world is surging to the consciousness of environmental problem, people expect from biomass resources such as plants
Raw material is above-mentioned more without the raw material from oil for expecting to have an impact global warming, but in addition to few a part of raw material
First alcohol largely comes from oil. 
 In addition, Central Position is accounted for by the polyester polyol that adipic acid synthesizes in most widely used polyester polyol now,
But nitric acid oxidation method is used in the manufacture of adipic acid, in manufacturing process, generate that greenhouseization is with obvious effects to compare CO 2 Big N 2 O,
In terms of there is this environment. 
 Therefore in order to solve these problems, people disclose the polyester polyol of various structure.For example, just like lower section
Method：As the dicarboxylic acids for not using nitric acid oxidation in its manufacture in addition to adipic acid, succinic acid is mixed with other glycol
The method that copolyester polyalcohol is made, specifically, there is document to disclose the oligomer co-blended by succinic acid and ethylene glycol
Method (patent document 1). 
 But the use of the polyester polyol of the succinic acid from oil and the polyurethane being produced from it although is known and work
It is produced in industry, but poor as the general treatability of the polyester polyol of raw material using succinic acid. 
 For example, using succinic acid as the polyester polyol system of raw material, there are the following problems：It is difficult in polyurethane-reinforcement reaction
Control reaction, makes the molecular weight of polyurethane resin easily increase, and in the feelings with much lower isocyanates of reactivity etc. for raw material
Under condition, polyurethane-reinforcement reaction becomes unstable, etc..In addition, with using general widely used adipic acid as the system of raw material
Compared to when, with the property that polyurethane resin physical property is hard and the elasticity modulus of tensile strength is high, usage is restricted. 
 On the other hand, from the point of view of global environment protection in recent years, seek the polyurethane from biomass resource
Resin, but only decanedioic acid and castor oil are used for the limited polyurethane original used and expected on the way from biomass resource on a small quantity
Material. 
 Recently, there is document to disclose a kind of using the biological succinic acid obtained by fermentation method as raw material, manufacture polyester polyols
The technology (patent document 2) of alcohol.However, using the polyurethane of the polyester polyol manufactured by technology described in Patent Document 2
It only shows and mechanical property same the case where use using the succinic acid in petroleum resources source as the polyester polyol of raw material. 
 The polyester polyol so obtained by any of the above-described method is not to have both putting down for polyester polyol itself physical property
The substance of the balance of weighing apparatus, the good of treatability, tone and reaction controlling easiness or mechanical properties when polyurethane is made, thus
Expect their exploitation. 
 
 
 Existing technical literature 
 Non-patent literature 
 Non-patent literature 1：《Port リ ウ レ タ ン Ji Foundation と ying is used》Page 96~pine Yongsheng controls chief editor, (strain) CMC
Published by Publishing, in November, 2006 distribution 
 Patent document 
 Patent document 1：Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2009-96824 bulletins 
 Patent document 2：International Publication No. 2008/104541 
 
 
 Invention content 
 Problems to be solved by the invention 
 According to the research of the inventors of the present invention, in technology described in Patent Document 1, the amber obtained by petroleum resources is used
Acid.In general, during manufacturing succinic acid by petroleum resources, malic acid is mixed into as the impurity of by-product in succinic acid.But
Be do not refer to be mixed into the excessive malic acid as impurity to the easiness of the physical property of polyurethane, such as reaction controlling or
Flexibility brings harmful effect. 
 For example, containing 1500~5000ppm's or so usually relative to succinic acid in the succinic acid obtained by petroleum resources
Malic acid, content have larger fluctuation also according to manufacture batch.Therefore, not only physical property is unstable for the polyurethane obtained by the succinic acid
It is fixed, and be also difficult to steadily operate in manufacturing process, this is the specific result of further investigation.Moreover, specifying such
The fact is important by the control for stablizing the upper malic acid amount of manufacture of the polyurethane of raw material of succinic acid.But it industrially removes
It is very difficult to fall the malic acid. 
 In addition, considering from other viewpoints, it is believed that malic acid carries the solution when intensity of adjustment polyurethane, adjustment manufacture
The effect of viscosity, further investigation the result shows that, which answers as not being unnecessary with the ingredient that succinic acid coexists
When controlling its content in right amount on the basis of adjusting the performance of desired polyurethane. 
 On the other hand, it is known even if during manufacture biological succinic acid also can secondary green apple acid (refer to International Publication No.
No. 2005/030973), although when compared with the succinic acid obtained by petroleum resources, when the fermentation reaction of biological succinic acid terminates
Malic acid content it is obviously more, but the content of malic acid can be generally reduced in next refining step. 
 However, not refined to malic acid initiatively, the life of the raw material as utility grade biology polyurethane is just not achieved
The level of object succinic acid, in the application, when being suitble to the refined or manufacturing process of purpose etc. in some means be necessary, it is only simple
Existing biological succinic acid singlely is applied to biological polyurethane, it is difficult to practical. 
 For example, having used the biological polyurethane of biological succinic acid Patent Document 2 discloses a kind of, although disclose by
The detailed content that succinic acid feed purification for biological polyurethane uses, but do not record its process etc.. 
 Moreover, the physical property of the polyester polyol and polyurethane described in patent document 2 is provided with use by oil
The physical property when succinic acid that source obtains is same.That is, the amount of malic acid can not be adjusted in common existing process for purification, manufacture
Utility grade polyurethane is still had any problem. 
 In turn, the problem of being coloured with the biological polyurethane remaining that the technology of patent document 2 manufactures, present situation is to reach not yet
The technology of utility grade biology polyurethane can be manufactured. 
 Therefore, the present invention makes in view of the background technology, project be to provide one kind can easily be accommodated molecular weight,
The few polyurethane of the excellent coloring of the mechanical properties such as flexibility and the Biopolvester polyalcohol for manufacturing biological polyurethane. 
 Solution to the problem 
 The inventors of the present invention be solve it is that the above subject is furtherd investigate as a result, it has been found that, by by the spy in biological polyurethane
The content for determining organic acid is controlled in particular range, more specifically, by being 3.7 by 25 DEG C contained in dicarboxylic acids of pKa value
It is carried out during organic acid (hereinafter, sometimes referred to simply as organic acid) below is before the manufacture from manufacturing process to polyurethane tight
Lattice control, the mechanical properties such as flexibility, elongation of molecular weight and gained polyurethane in being manufactured to polyurethane generate compared with
It is big to influence, this makes it possible to obtain the biological polyurethane of the excellent realistic scale such as mechanical properties and manufacture stability and as life
The polyester polyol of object urethane raw, so as to complete the present invention. 
 That is, the main points of the present invention are as follows. 
 1. a kind of manufacturing method of the polyurethane from biomass resource, the manufacturing method of the polyurethane, which includes at least, makes two
Carboxylic acid and aliphatic diol react to manufacture the process of polyester polyol and make the polyester polyol and polyisocyanates chemical combination
The process of object reaction, which is characterized in that the dicarboxylic acids includes at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, the dicarboxylic acids
In the content of organic acid be more than 0ppm relative to dicarboxylic acids and be 1000ppm hereinafter, the organic acid is in 25 DEG C of pKa value
3.7 following. 
 2. the manufacturing method of the polyurethane from biomass resource as described in preceding paragraph 1, which is characterized in that the dicarboxylic acids
At least one ingredient be derived from biomass resource. 
 3. the manufacturing method of the polyurethane from biomass resource as described in preceding paragraph 1 or 2, wherein the dicarboxylic acids packet
Include the succinic acid derived from biomass resource. 
 4. the manufacturing method of polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource such as preceding paragraph 1~3, wherein described
There are 3 or more active hydrogen-baseds for 3.7 one molecules of organic acid below in 25 DEG C of pKa values. 
 5. the manufacturing method of polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource such as preceding paragraph 1~4, wherein described
25 DEG C of pKa values be 3.7 organic acids below be selected from least one of malic acid, tartaric acid and citric acid. 
 6. a kind of polyurethane from biomass resource is obtained by any one of them manufacturing method of preceding paragraph 1~5
It arrives. 
 7. a kind of polyurethane from biomass resource, which is characterized in that the polyurethane include at least dicarboxylic acid units,
Aliphatic diol unit, polyisocyanic acid ester units in 25 DEG C of pKa values are 3.7 organic acid units below as structural unit,
The dicarboxylic acids includes at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, and the content of organic acid unit is relative to dicarboxylic acids
Unit is more than 0 mole of % and is less than or equal to 0.09 mole of %. 
 8. the polyurethane from biomass resource as described in preceding paragraph 7, which is characterized in that at least one of the dicarboxylic acids
Ingredient is derived from biomass resource. 
 9. the polyurethane from biomass resource as described in preceding paragraph 7 or 8, wherein the dicarboxylic acids includes by biomass
Succinic acid derived from resource. 
 10. such as polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 7~9, wherein the aliphatic diol
Unit includes at least one of ethylene glycol unit and 1,4- butanediol units. 
 11. such as polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 7~10, wherein described at 25 DEG C
PKa value is that be a molecule have 3 or more active hydrogen-based organic acid units to 3.7 organic acid units below. 
 12. such as polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 7~11, wherein described at 25 DEG C
PKa value is that 3.7 organic acid units below are selected from least one of malic acid, tartaric acid and citric acid. 
 13. such as polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 7~12, wherein YI values (are based on JIS-
K7105 it is) 20 or less. 
 14. such as polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 6~13, wherein measured by GPC
The molecular weight distribution (Mw/Mn) arrived is 1.5~3.5. 
 15. a kind of polyester polyol from biomass resource of polyurethane manufacture, the polyester polyol are at least wrapped
It is 3.7 organic acid units below as structural unit containing dicarboxylic acid units, aliphatic diol unit and pKa value at 25 DEG C,
The dicarboxylic acids includes at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, and the content of organic acid unit is relative to described two
Carboxylic acid is more than 0 mole of % and is less than or equal to 0.09 mole of %. 
 16. the polyester polyol from biomass resource as described in preceding paragraph 15, which is characterized in that the dicarboxylic acids is extremely
A kind of few ingredient is derived from biomass resource. 
 17. the polyester polyol from biomass resource as described in preceding paragraph 15 or 16, wherein the dicarboxylic acids include by
Succinic acid derived from biomass resource. 
 18. such as polyester polyol of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 15~17, wherein the equal molecule of number
Amount is 500~5000. 
 19. such as polyester polyol of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 15~18, wherein described organic
Acid unit is selected from least one of malic acid, tartaric acid and citric acid. 
 20. such as polyester polyol of any one of them from biomass resource of preceding paragraph 15~19, wherein with black once color
It is worth value (the APHA values indicated：Based on JIS-K0101) it is 50 or less. 
 21. a kind of dermatine or synthetic leather are provided from biomass using any one of them of preceding paragraph 6~14
The polyurethane manufacture in source. 
 22. a kind of sole polyurethane is poly- from biomass resource using any one of them of preceding paragraph 6~14
Urethane manufacture. 
 Invention effect 
 The manufacturing method of the present invention makes dicarboxylic acids and aliphatic containing at least one ingredient from biomass resource
In process of the glycol reaction to manufacture polyester polyol, representated by the malic acid in the dicarboxylic acids is 3.7 in 25 DEG C of pKa value
The content of organic acid below is controlled in specific quantity or less.Therefore, it is manufactured using the polyester polyol manufactured by the process
Polyurethane resin there is linear structure and excellent hue, thus can be used for various purposes.In addition, as preferred side
Formula has and is easy to by being the control process (such as refining step etc.) of 3.7 organic acids below via the pKa value at 25 DEG C
The advantages of controlling polyurethane-reinforcement reaction. 
 In addition, the present invention's manufactured using the polyester polyol manufactured by above-mentioned operation is poly- from biomass resource
Urethane has the feature that：In characteristic, the i.e. mechanical strength, heat-resisting for being maintained as the polyurethane from existing polyester polyol
While property, flexibility is excellent.Moreover, being also provided simultaneously with such feature：The viscosity of the solution of obtained polyurethane it is low and
The operability of molding or coating is high. 
 Thus, for example, the dermatine or synthetic leather that use the polyurethane from biomass resource of the present invention to manufacture,
Sole polyurethane resin, coating or coating agent, note type polyurethane, cement or fluid sealant are than using the amber with petroleum resources
Acid be the polyester polyol of raw material manufacture polyurethane is more soft, elongation higher, and treatability is improved, in industry
It is upper extremely useful. 
 In addition, it is preferred that the present invention the polyurethane from biomass resource come from plant, due to for environment friend
Good resin and biological degradability also improves, so being highly useful. 
 
 
 Specific implementation mode 
 Hereinafter, the mode of the present invention is described in detail, but the present invention is not limited to the following embodiments and the accompanying drawings, Ke Yi
Various modifications are carried out in the range of its main points to implement. 
 <Polyurethane from biomass resource> 
 The present invention from biomass resource polyurethane (in this specification, sometimes referred to simply as biological polyurethane, poly- ammonia
Ester) manufacturing method include at least the process that makes aliphatic diol react with dicarboxylic acids to manufacture polyester polyol and this made to gather
The process that ester polyol is reacted with polyisocyanate compound, which is characterized in that the dicarboxylic acids includes at least one by biology
Ingredient derived from matter resource is more than 0ppm and small in the dicarboxylic acids in the content that 25 DEG C of pKa value is 3.7 organic acids below
In equal to 1000ppm. 
 In addition, the polyurethane from biomass resource of the present invention is characterized in that, it is described poly- from biomass resource
It is 3.7 or less that urethane, which includes at least aliphatic diol unit, dicarboxylic acid units, polyisocyanic acid ester units and the pKa value at 25 DEG C,
Organic acid unit as structural unit, the dicarboxylic acid units be derived from biomass resource, organic acid unit
Content is more than 0 mole of % relative to the dicarboxylic acid units and is less than or equal to 0.09 mole of %. 
 In addition, polyurethane described in the present invention means that polyurethane or polyurethane-urea, people as long as no special limitation
It was known that both resins had roughly the same physical property in the past.On the other hand, as the difference of structure feature, so-called polyurethane
It is that short-chain polyol is used to be manufactured as chain extender, so-called polyurethane-urea is that polyhydric amine compounds is used to be manufactured as chain extender
's. 
 (1) dicarboxylic acids 
 As dicarboxylic acid component's (sometimes referred to simply as dicarboxylic acids in the present invention) for the present invention, for example, fat can be enumerated
Fat race dicarboxylic acids or their mixture, aromatic dicarboxylic acid or their mixture and aromatic dicarboxylic acid and aliphatic two
The mixture of carboxylic acid.In these, preferably using aliphatic dicarboxylic acid as main component. 
 Described main component refers to the content relative to total dicarboxylic acid units in the present invention, it is often preferred that 50 moles of %
More than, more preferably 60 moles of % or more, further preferably 70 moles of % or more, particularly preferably 90 moles of % or more. 
 As aromatic dicarboxylic acid, for example, terephthalic acid (TPA) and M-phthalic acid etc..As aromatic series dicarboxyl
The derivative of acid, for example, the lower alkyl esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acid.As the lower alkyl esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acid,
Specifically, for example, methyl esters, ethyl ester, propyl ester and butyl ester etc.. 
 Wherein, as aromatic dicarboxylic acid, preferably terephthalic acid (TPA) and M-phthalic acid.In addition, as aromatic series dicarboxyl
The derivative of acid, preferably dimethyl terephthalate (DMT) and dimethyl isophthalate.For example, can be as dimethyl terephthalate (DMT)
It is such with the polyester of 1,4-butanediol, it is polynary that desired aromatic polyester is manufactured by using arbitrary aromatic dicarboxylic acid
Alcohol polyurethane. 
 As aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, for example, aliphatic dicarboxylic acid or derivatives thereof.Aliphatic dicarboxylic acid is usual
It is preferred that carbon atom number is 2~40.Additionally, it is preferred that being straight-chain or ester ring type dicarboxylic acids. 
 As the aliphatic dicarboxylic acid that carbon atom number is 2~40, straight-chain or ester ring type dicarboxylic acids, specifically, for example
Oxalic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, decanedioic acid, dodecanedioic acid, dimeric dibasic acid and cyclohexane cyclohexanedimethanodibasic etc. can be enumerated.This
In a little, as aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, from the physical property aspect of obtained polymer, preferably adipic acid, succinic acid, decanedioic acid
Or their mixture, particularly preferably using succinic acid as main component. 
 In addition, the derivative as aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, for example, the methyl esters of above-mentioned aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, second
The cyclic acid anhydride etc. of the above-mentioned aliphatic dicarboxylic acid such as the lower alkyl esters such as ester, propyl ester and butyl ester and succinic anhydride.In these,
As the derivative of aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, the methyl esters or their mixture of more preferable adipic acid and succinic acid. 
 These dicarboxylic acids may be used singly or in combination of two or more. 
 Dicarboxylic acids for the present invention contains at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource.Contained by dicarboxylic acids
The preferred component derived from biomass resource, for example, adipic acid, succinic acid and decanedioic acid, but wherein particularly preferred amber
Amber acid. 
 In the present invention, so-called dicarboxylic acids includes that at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource refers to, in dicarboxylic acids
Can be the mixed of such as succinic acid of the raw material from oil and such as succinic acid from biomass resource in the case of for one kind
Object is closed, in addition in the case of the mixture of two or more dicarboxylic acids, as long as at least one dicarboxylic acids is from biomass resource
Can, can be the mixture of the dicarboxylic acids of the dicarboxylic acids from biomass resource and the raw material from oil. 
 In the case of the mixture of the dicarboxylic acids from biomass resource and the dicarboxylic acids of the raw material from oil, come from
The dicarboxylic acids of biomass resource is preferably 20 moles of % or more, more preferably 40% mole or more, and further preferably 60% rubs
More than you, particularly preferably 90 moles of % or more. 
 In addition, in the present invention, it is preferred to which at least one ingredient of dicarboxylic acids is derived from biomass resource, it means that
As at least one ingredient of dicarboxylic acids, such as by taking succinic acid as an example, which is entirely derived from biomass resource. 
 In the present invention described biomass resource include by the photosynthesis of plant by the luminous energy of the sun be converted to starch,
Sugar and forms and biomass resource, the predacious plant body of storage such as cellulose and the animal body of growth and development and processing plant
Product etc. obtained from body or animal body. 
 Wherein, preferred biomass resource is plant resources.As plant resources, for example, timber, rice straw,
Rice skin, rice bran, old rice, corn, sugarcane, cassava, sago palm, soybean residue, corn ear, manioc waste, bagasse, vegetable oil residue,
Taro, buckwheat, soybean, grease, waste paper, papermaking residue, aquatic products residue, cattle waste, downflow sludge and food waste etc.. 
 Wherein, preferably timber, rice straw, rice skin, rice bran, old rice, corn, sugarcane, cassava, sago palm, soybean residue, corn
The plant resources such as stick, manioc waste, bagasse, vegetable oil residue, taro, buckwheat, soybean, grease, waste paper and papermaking residue, more preferably
Timber, rice straw, rice skin, old rice, corn, sugarcane, cassava, sago palm, taro, grease, waste paper and papermaking residue, most preferably
Corn, sugarcane, cassava and sago palm.These biomass resources usually contain a variety of alkali metal such as nitrogen, Na, K, Mg and Ca
And alkaline-earth metal. 
 Also, these biomass resources are not particularly limited, can for example, by the chemical treatment of bronsted lowry acids and bases bronsted lowry etc., using micro-
The process of pre-treatment and saccharification well known to the biological processes of biology and physical treatment etc. is converted to carbon source. 
 The process is usually not particularly limited to, such as including before by biomass resource fragmentation, will cut and grind etc.
The miniaturization process of reason.As needed, further include with grinder or the pulverizing process carried out of milling. 
 Biomass resource after such miniaturization is converted into carbon source using the process of pre-treatment and saccharification.As it
Specific method, for example, the sour processing carried out with strong acid such as sulfuric acid, nitric acid, hydrochloric acid or phosphoric acid, alkali process, ammonia frozen steamed
Boil the chemical methodes such as quick-fried broken method, solvent extraction, treatment with supercritical fluid and oxidizer treatment；Or it is Crushing of Ultrafine, the quick-fried broken method of boiling, micro-
The physical methods such as wave processing, electronbeam irradiation；And using biological processes such as the hydrolysis of microorganism or enzymatic treatment. 
 As it is above-mentioned by biomass resource convert carbon source, for example, glucose, mannose, galactolipin, fructose,
The hexoses such as sorbose, Tagatose；The pentoses such as arabinose, xylose, ribose, xylulose, ribulose；Pentosan, sucrose, starch,
The disaccharides such as cellulose or polysaccharide；Butyric acid, caproic acid, octanoic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, tetradecylic acid, palmitic acid, palmitoleic acid, tristearin
Acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, leukotrienes, single cutic acid (モ ノ Network チ Application is sour (monocutinic acid)), arachidic acid, 20 carbon
Olefin(e) acid, arachidonic acid, behenic acid, sinapic acid, clupanodonic acid, docosahexaenoic acid, lignoceric acid and 20
The aliphatic acid such as four carbon monoenoic acids；And the Fermenteds saccharic such as polyalcohols such as glycerine, mannitol, xylitol and ribitol.These
In, preferably glucose, maltose, fructose, sucrose, lactose, trehalose and cellulose. 
 Using these carbon sources, by being based on microorganism conversion (it uses the microorganisms with production dicarboxylic acids ability)
Fermentation method or chemical transfer method (chemical transfer method includes the reaction process such as hydrolysis, dehydration, hydration reaction, oxidation reaction) with
And the combination of the fermentation method and the chemical transfer method synthesizes dicarboxylic acids.The fermentation method of microorganism conversion is preferably based in these. 
 As long as the above-mentioned microorganism with production dicarboxylic acids ability is the microorganism of the ability with production dicarboxylic acids,
It is not particularly limited, for example, it is thin to enumerate the intestinal bacteriums such as escherichia coli, Bacillus species and Coryneform
Bacterium etc.., it is preferable to use aerobic mierobe, facultative anaerobic microorganism or micro- aerobic mierobe in these. 
 As aerobic mierobe, for example, coryneform bacteria (Coryneform Bacterium), bud
Born of the same parents bacillus (Bacillus) belongs to bacterium, rhizobium (Rhizobium) bacterium, arthrobacterium (Arthrobacter) and belongs to bacterium, divides
Branch bacillus (Mycobacterium) belongs to bacterium, Rhodococcus sp (Rhodococcus) belongs to bacterium, Nocard's bacillus (Nocardia) belongs to thin
Bacterium and streptomycete (Streptomyces) belong to bacterium etc., more preferable coryneform bacteria. 
 As long as coryneform bacteria is classified the bacterium in the bacterium, it is not particularly limited, for example,
Belong to the bacterium of corynebacterium, belong to the bacterium of brevibacterium or belongs to the bacterium etc. of Arthrobacter.Wherein, stick is preferably belonged to
The bacterium of shape Bacillus or brevibacterium is more preferably classified in Corynebacterium glutamicum (Corynebacterium
Glutamicum), brevibacterium flavum (Brevibacterium flavum), brevibacterium ammoniagene (Brevibacterium
) or the bacterium of brevibacterium lactofermentus (Brevibacterium lactofermentum) ammoniagenes. 
 In the case where using production of succinic acid bacterium as the microorganism with dicarboxyl acid production ability, implementation as be described hereinafter
As example is recorded, the bacterial strain of lactic acid dehydrogenase activity reduction using pyruvate carboxylase activity enhancing. 
 Although the reaction conditions such as the reaction temperature and pressure of microorganism conversion depend on selected thalline or fungi (カ
ビ) etc. microorganisms activity, but select the suitable condition for obtaining dicarboxylic acids according to various situations. 
 In microorganism is converted, when pH is lower, the metabolic activity of microorganism reduces or microorganism is stopped action, and is manufactured into
Product rate deteriorates or microorganism is dead, thus usually using neutralizer. 
 In general, measuring the pH in reaction system by pH sensors, pH is adjusted to defined pH by adding neutralizer
Range.According to the type of microorganism used, pH value is adjusted to can most effective its active range of performance.Addition is neutralized
The method of agent is not particularly limited, and can continuously add, and can also intermittently add. 
 As neutralizer, for example, the hydrogen-oxygen of the hydroxide of ammonia, ammonium carbonate, urea, alkali metal, alkaline-earth metal
The carbonate of compound, the carbonate of alkali metal and alkaline-earth metal.In these, preferably ammonia, ammonium carbonate and urea. 
 As the hydroxide of above-mentioned alkali (soil) metal, for example, NaOH, KOH, Ca (OH) 2 With Mg (OH) 2 Deng with
And their mixture etc..In addition, the carbonate as alkali (soil) metal, for example, Na 2 CO 3 、K 2 CO 3 、CaCO 3 、
MgCO 3 And NaKCO 3 Deng and their mixture etc.. 
 PH value can be adjusted to most effective its active range of performance of energy, but usually according to the type of microorganism used
The preferably range of pH4~10, the more preferably range of pH6~9 or so. 
 Consider the operability in refining step thereafter and efficiency, it can be by the transformed zymotic fluid of microorganism suitable for dense
Contracting.It as method for concentration, is not particularly limited, however for example, makes the method for inert gas circulation, made by heating
Method that water is distilled off and the method for being distilled off water under decompression and the method etc. that they are combined.In addition, concentration operation
It can be carried out, can also be carried out with operating continuously with batch operation. 
 In addition, in the case where using zymotic fluid, it is preferable to use removing the zymotic fluid after microorganism.Removal to microorganism
Method is not particularly limited, such as sedimentation separation can be used, centrifuge and be separated by filtration and method etc. that they are combined.Work
It is removed with the methods of centrifugation, membrane filtration separation in industry. 
 As centrifugation, for example, centrifugal sedimentation and centrifugal filtration etc..In centrifugation, operating condition
It is not particularly limited, however it is preferred that with the centrifugal force separate of usual 100G~100000G.In addition, its operation can use continuously
Formula can also use batch-type. 
 In addition, being detached as membrane filtration, for example, micro-filtration and ultrafiltration etc., can also combine them.As film
Material, be not particularly limited, for example, polyolefin, polysulfones (Port リ ス Le Off ィ Application), polyacrylonitrile and gather inclined difluoro
The film of the inorganic of the organic film and ceramics of ethylene etc. etc..In addition, as operating method, dead end type and mistake can be used
Any one of flow pattern.Due in most cases microorganism clogging film in membrane filtration separation, so centrifugation can also be used
Deng to carrying out the methods of membrane filtration after microorganism progress bulk processing. 
 Hereinafter, the embodiment of the manufacturing method of dicarboxylic acids is described in detail, but these explanations are embodiments
Typical example, however it is not limited to these. 
 The typical example of manufacturing method as dicarboxylic acids, can enumerate the method for including following I~V processes, and this method is
The method that dicarboxylic acids is manufactured from the aqueous solution comprising the dicarboxylic acids obtained by biomass resource. 
 I. the aqueous solution comprising dicarboxylic acids and the solvent being separated with the aqueous solution are mixed, dicarboxylic acids is recovered to
Abstraction process in solvent 
 II. the process dicarboxylic acids recycled in abstraction process concentrated, is the water made by the concentration in extraction phase
The raised extraction phase enrichment process of concentration 
 III. the crystallization process for being precipitated from the liquid after extraction phase enrichment process dicarboxylic acids 
 IV. the solid-liquid separation process for the dicarboxylic acids being precipitated in crystallization process is recycled 
 V. at least part crystallization mother liquor after the dicarboxylic acids obtained in recycling solid-liquid separation process is sent back to crystallization process
The crystallization mother liquor recycle process of any process before 
 Hereinafter, the embodiment about each process is described in detail, but to dicarboxylic acids and amber in this manual
Both the textual representation of acid, is not particularly limited, be applicable to. 
 (I. abstraction processes) 
 Abstraction process will be wrapped when manufacturing dicarboxylic acids from the aqueous solution comprising the dicarboxylic acids obtained by biomass resource
It aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids and is mixed with the solvent of the aqueous solution split-phase, process dicarboxylic acids being recovered in solvent.Extract work
Sequence preferably generally includes Contact operation and phase separation process, in the Contact operation by the aqueous solution comprising dicarboxylic acids and with this it is water-soluble
The solvent mixing of liquid split-phase makes them contact, and phase separation process is to make the process of liquid split-phase after Contact operation. 
 In the process that is separated, so that aqueous solution is separated with solvent, but in some cases, is formed and wrapped in boundary sometimes
Phase (hereinafter sometimes referred to as interphase) containing solid constituent, the interphase is there is a possibility that solvent phase (hereinafter sometimes referred to as carries
Take phase) it has any problem with the separation of water-soluble liquid phase (hereinafter sometimes referred to as raffinate phase), or impurity is made to increase to the mixed volume of extraction phase
Add.It is therefore preferable that removal interphase. 
 In the case where carrying out Contact operation by batch operation, being added in the aqueous solution comprising dicarboxylic acids can be with the water
Solution phase separation solvent, after being sufficiently mixed, be separated in process, can by will extract phase, interphase and raffinate phase from
The method that respective phase is nearby taken out by outlet or the method etc. taken out successively from the bottom of the container contacted, will carry
Take phase, interphase and raffinate phase separation recycling.Interphase containing more solid constituent is taken out when both can be identical as extraction,
It is taken out when can be identical as raffinate. 
 In addition, for example in the case where carrying out Contact operation by continuous operation, using by mixer portion and settler portion
The contact device (hereinafter sometimes referred to as mixing sedimentation type extractor) of composition, the mixer portion has for that will include dicarboxyl
The aqueous solution of acid and the mixer that mixing can be contacted with the solvent of the aqueous solution split-phase, the settler portion, which has, to be suitable for passing through
The mixed liquor that is mixed to get by contact is stood to make the sedimentation of the process (be hereinafter sometimes referred to as separated process) of their split-phases
In the phase separation process using the contact device extraction phase, interphase and raffinate can be separately recovered in settler portion in device
Phase. 
 (solid constituent) 
 In the case of using microbe fermentation method when obtaining dicarboxylic acids by the raw material from biomass resource, in general, hair
As impurity, there are the high score subclasses that protein etc. has higher order structure in zymotic fluid.The usual high water solubility such as protein, is being extracted
Its major part is assigned in water-soluble liquid phase in operation.Only there are a part of substances, this moieties to pass through in extraction process
It is contacted with solvent, higher order structure is destroyed, is denaturalized, and is divided all insoluble in water and solvent and is become solid constituent. 
 The solid constituent generated in extraction process has the tendency being concentrated mainly near liquid-liquid interface.Usually carry in batches
It takes even if generating solid constituent near liquid-liquid interface, as long as removal solid constituent, extraction phase, raffinate is mutually recycled, just existed
Operate without big problem. 
 On the other hand, for continuously extracting, particularly multi-stage countercurrent extraction column, since solid constituent continuously generates, so
Obstruction is generated to liquid-liquid dispersions, Liquid liquid Separation, not only interferes steady running, or even become not extracting.In addition, if comprising solid
The liquid of body ingredient flows in subsequent handling, then generates harmful effect in subsequent handling sometimes. 
 For example, the extraction comprising dicarboxylic acids recycled in abstraction process is mutually since dicarboxyl acid concentration is low, thus sometimes into
Row concentration, but if there are solid constituent, then solid constituent adheres to, burns on the heating surfaces such as reboiler, and heat transfer efficiency is made to dislike
Change.Although additionally depending on subsequent handling, also have the case where going wrong in quality. 
 In addition, in the case where using dicarboxylic acids as polyester polyols raw polyol, specify that the ingredient containing nitrogen-atoms is big
Tone of the Important Relations to polymer. 
 Solid constituent is due to including more protein denaturation object so that includes the more ingredient containing nitrogen-atoms, so such as
Fruit solid constituent is mixed into final products, it is likely that is had an impact to the tone of polymer.It is therefore preferable that by extraction process
The solid constituent of generation removes in abstraction process. 
 (removal of solid constituent) 
 The minimizing technology of solid constituent is not particularly limited, however it is preferred that only selectively removes solid constituent. 
 Such as in extract in batches, solvent is added in the zymotic fluid comprising dicarboxylic acids, after being sufficiently mixed, can will extract
Phase, the interphase containing more solid matter, raffinate mutually separate and recover. 
 In addition, in continuous extraction, by mixed fermentation liquid and solvent mixer portion and Liquid liquid Separation mixed liquor
Settler portion constitute mixing sedimentation type extractor in, can be separately recovered in settler extraction phase, comprising more solid at
The interphase and raffinate phase divided. 
 Can be any mode, for example, stirring as long as zymotic fluid is sufficiently mixed with solvent as mixer
Mix slot and static mixer etc..But it using stirred tank, is involved in due to the solid constituent to generation is stirred
Bubble in stirred tank can be attached on solid constituent, significantly block the sedimentation of the solid constituent in subsequent settler, thus
It should be noted that the setting of stirring condition.From operation permissible range from the point of view of wide, cost of equipment, mixer preferably uses static state
Mixer. 
 On the other hand, the type of settler is not particularly limited.Can enumerate with a slot type be separately recovered extraction phase, in
Between mutually and raffinate phase type；Extraction phase, interphase, the type etc. of raffinate phase is separately recovered with multi-groove type. 
 Interphase containing more solid matter is due to containing extraction phase and raffinate phase, so being separated by solid-liquid separation, by solid
Ingredient is separated with extraction phase and/or raffinate, can recycle extraction phase and/or raffinate phase.Do not have for solid-liquid separating method yet
It is particularly limited to, but for example, sedimentation separation and the methods of is separated by filtration. 
 Can be by gravitational field by solid constituent sedimentation separation in sedimentation separation, it can also be by centrifugal force field by solid
Ingredient sedimentation separation.Only from its sinking speed, preferably centrifugal sedimentation detaches.In addition, its mode can be batch operation,
Or continuous operation.As continuous sedimentation centrifuge, for example, screw settling machine and the board-like centrifugation of separation
Putting-down machine. 
 In being separated by filtration, method is classified according to filter material, filter pressure and continuous operation or batch operation etc., but
As long as solid constituent and extraction phase and/or raffinate can be separated, any method is not particularly limited.However, filter material
Mesh be preferably 0.1 μm to 10 μm., will not be too small through a fluid stream by the way that the mesh of filter material is set as 0.1 μm or more, it can be with
Prevent the filtering overspending time.On the other hand, by the way that mesh is set as 10 μm hereinafter, the separation of solid constituent becomes abundant. 
 It needs to be insoluble to solvent due to the material of filter material, it is advantageous to use Teflon (registered trademark) etc..In addition,
Filtering can use vacuum type, adding pressure type and centrifugal any mode.Moreover, its mode can be continous way, it can also
For batch-type. 
 (contact device) 
 As long as contact device can carry out contact and solvent phase and water-soluble liquid phase of the aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids with solvent
Recycling, so that it may with for any device, however can preferably further remove the device of solid constituent.Wherein preferred embodiment is simple
And operate also easy above-mentioned mixing sedimentation type extraction element. 
 As long as mixer makes aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids and can be sufficiently mixed with the solvent of the aqueous solution split-phase, so that it may with for
Any mode, for example, container and static mixer etc. with agitating device.Only, using with agitating device
Container in the case of, be involved in because of stirring the bubbles such as the air in container can be attached to caused by solid constituent, show
The phase separation for blocking the solid constituent in subsequent settler portion is write, it is advantageous to be stirred under conditions ofs non-involvement air etc..
Wide with from the point of view of cost of equipment from operation permissible range, mixer preferably uses static mixer. 
 (phase-separating device) 
 As long as settler can by containing dicarboxylic acids aqueous solution and can be contacted with the solvent that the aqueous solution is separated
Liquid split-phase afterwards, so that it may by in a manner of any.For example, extraction phase, interphase and raffinate phase is separately recovered with a slot
Settler；The settler of extraction phase, interphase and raffinate phase is separately recovered with multi-groove type；And by using rotating device into
Capable centrifuges to recycle the settler etc. of each phase. 
 In liquid of the interphase containing more solid matter due to generally comprising the liquid and raffinate phase selected from extraction phase
At least one liquid can be separated and recovered from liquid and raffinate phase selected from extraction phase so being separated by solid-liquid separation to interphase
At least one of liquid liquid.The liquid of recycling can both send the later process of phase separation process back to, can also contact
It is recycled in the pervious process of process.The manufacture efficiency that dicarboxylic acids can be improved by recycling, so being preferred. 
 Solid-liquid separating method is not particularly limited, for example, sedimentation separation and the methods of being separated by filtration.It is settling
, can be by gravitational field by solid constituent sedimentation separation in separation, it can also be by centrifugal force field by solid constituent sedimentation separation.
In order to improve sinking speed, preferably centrifugal sedimentation detaches. 
 The mode of operation of separation of solid and liquid can be that batch operation may be continuous operation.As continuous centrifugal sedimentation
Machine, for example, screw settling machine and the board-like sedimentation centrifuge of separation. 
 In being separated by filtration, method is classified according to filter material, filter pressure and continuous operation or batch operation etc., but
As long as solid constituent and extraction phase and/or raffinate can be separated, it is not particularly limited.However, the mesh of filter material is excellent
It is selected as 0.1 μm to 10 μm., will not be too small through a fluid stream by the way that the mesh of filter material is set as 0.1 μm or more, it can prevent from filtering
The overspending time.On the other hand, by the way that mesh is set as 10 μm hereinafter, the separation of solid constituent becomes abundant.In addition, filter material
Material need to be insoluble to solvent, it is preferable to use the filter material being made of fluorine resins such as tetrafluoroethene. 
 Filtering can be vacuum type, can also use adding pressure type and centrifugal either type.Moreover, its mode can be
Continous way, or batch-type. 
 (solvent) 
 As long as the solvent of the solvent and the aqueous solution split-phase containing dicarboxylic acids used in Contact operation, just without special
Limitation, however it is preferred that the ratio (being abbreviated as I/O values sometimes below) of inorganic value/organic value is 0.2~2.3, more preferably 0.3
~2.0.By using such solvent, dicarboxylic acids can be selectively extracted, can effectively be detached with the impurity being mingled with. 
 In addition, the solvent that boiling point is 40 DEG C or more under preferred normal pressure (1 air pressure) can be used, boiling point is 60 under more preferable normal pressure
DEG C or more solvent.Moreover, the boiling point under preferred normal pressure can be used is 120 DEG C or less, more preferable boiling point is 100 DEG C or less, special
Not preferred boiling point is 90 DEG C of solvents below. 
 It, can be to avoid following problem by using above-mentioned solvent：Danger or the solvent gasification that solvent gasifies and lights make
The problem of extraction efficiency of dicarboxylic acids reduces or solvent are difficult to recycle.In addition, having the following advantages that：It is molten after using
When agent is recycled by the methods of distillation separation or after refining, institute's calorific requirement can be fewer. 
 Inorganic value and organic value are to discuss [" Xi System You Machine qualitative analyses by organic conceptional diagram " Tentianmu, Wind Inter Books
Room (1974)] propose, numerical value is preset for the functional group for constituting organic compound, based on the numerical value, is calculated
Organic value and inorganic value find out its ratio. 
 As the solvent that I/O values are 0.2~2.3, boiling point is 40 DEG C or more under normal pressure, for example, methyl ethyl ketone, first
The ether series solvents such as the ketone series solvents such as base isobutyl ketone and acetone, tetrahydrofuran and dioxane；The ester series solvents such as ethyl acetate；Second
The nitrile series solvents such as nitrile；And the alcohol that the carbon atom numbers such as propyl alcohol, butanol and octanol are 3 or more. 
 The I/O values and boiling point of each solvent are shown in table below. 
 [table 1] 
 The I/O values of 1 each solvent of table 
 
 
 
 By Contact operation, selectively dicarboxylic acids can be extracted in solvent, carbohydrate, the amino acids of high water solubility
It is mainly allocated in water-soluble liquid phase with inorganic salts.Certainly, the raw salt quilt of pair generated in the protonation process of dicarboxylate
It is assigned in water-soluble liquid phase, can easily be detached with dicarboxylic acids. 
 For example, in the case where secondary raw salt is ammonium sulfate, almost all is recycled in water-soluble liquid phase.Meanwhile ammonium sulfate
The processing such as concentrated, crystallization and drying together with the amino acid and carbohydrate that are recycled to water-soluble liquid phase can be used as comprising organic
The ammonium sulfate recycling amino acid and carbohydrate divided.The ammonium sulfate is since appropriateness includes organic matter, so being useful as fertilizer. 
 (touch operation) 
 Make the aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids and the operation that can be contacted with the solvent of the water-soluble liquid phase separation can be in Contact operation
It is carried out with one section, can also be carried out, however it is preferred that be carried out with the multistage with the multistage. 
 In addition, solvent can be relative to the aqueous solution PARALLEL FLOW containing dicarboxylic acids, it can also reverse flow.Contact operation was both
It can be carried out continuously, can also intermittently carry out.Particularly preferred mode is, by containing dicarboxylic acids aqueous solution and solvent it is heavy in mixing
It drops after being mixed in device, Liquid liquid Separation, separates and recovers extraction phase, interphase and raffinate phase, interphase is separated by solid-liquid separation,
After the liquid of separation and recovery is separated as needed, the later process of phase separation process is sent back to. 
 By the Contact operation for making solvent as described above be contacted with the aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acids is extracted molten
In agent.Herein, preferably with respect to 1 volume at the temperature at which the contact of the aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids, solvent adds 0.5~5 body
Product more preferably uses 1~3 volume relative to 1 volume. 
 As long as temperature when contact is the temperature of extractable dicarboxylic acids, there is no particular limitation, however it is preferred that 30~60 DEG C.
By the way that Contact Temperature is set as 30 DEG C or more, the problems such as to prevent the viscosity of solvent from increasing, prevent solid because of generation at
The sedimentation required time divided is elongated and is suspended in solvent phase, and solid constituent is inhibited to be mixed into solvent phase.On the other hand, pass through
Contact Temperature is set as 60 DEG C hereinafter, to prevent the recovery rate of dicarboxylic acids to be lower, excellent in efficiency. 
 As long as time when contact is the time that can fully extract dicarboxylic acids, there is no particular limitation, although also because of contact
Device, contact conditions and difference, it is typically preferred that 1 second~5 hours.By the way that 1 second or more will be set as time of contact, to
Dicarboxylic acids becomes abundant to the extraction of solvent phase.On the other hand, by the way that 5 hours will be set as time of contact hereinafter, to prevent
Contact device need not ground increase, keep contact efficient, while preventing solvent from making the protein-based denaturation coexisted with dicarboxylic acids
It carries out, inhibits the increase of solid constituent. 
 As long as pressure when contact is that can fully extract the pressure of dicarboxylic acids, there is no particular limitation, however continuously into
In the case of row, usually operate under atmospheric pressure. 
 (phase separation operation) 
 Phase separation operation in phase separation process both can stand certain time in slot, can also be filled by centrifuging
Set progress.Mixing sedimentation type extractor as described above has settler portion, and the settler portion by contact by will be mixed to get
Mixed liquor stand and make its phase separation.By the way that liquid is stood certain time in settler portion, can be separated.Phase point
It can both be carried out continuously, can also intermittently carry out from process. 
 As long as temperature when phase separation is each mutually separable temperature, there is no particular limitation, however it is preferred that 30~60 DEG C,
And it is preferred that in the Temperature Treatment with touch operation with degree.By the way that phase separation temperature is set as 30 DEG C or more, can prevent
Liquid viscosity increases, and the separation of solid constituent, which becomes, to be easy, and solid constituent is prevented to be mixed into solvent phase, and inhibition is mixed into solid constituent
In quantity of solvent.On the other hand, by the way that phase separation temperature is set as 60 DEG C hereinafter, can prevent two during phase separation
Carboxylic acid is counter to be extracted in aqueous solution. 
 As long as time when phase separation is the time that split-phase occurs for each phase, there is no particular limitation, although also because contact fills
It sets, contact conditions, phase disengagement method and difference, it is typically preferred that 1 minute~5 hours.Pass through the time setting that will be separated
It is 1 minute or more, to which phase separation becomes abundant, aqueous solution or solid constituent can be prevented to be mixed into solvent phase, can be pressed down on the contrary
Solvent or solid constituent processed are mixed into water-soluble liquid phase.On the other hand, by the way that disengaging time is set as 5 hours hereinafter, to prevent
Unnecessarily increase phase-separating device, is efficient. 
 In addition, as long as pressure when phase separation is that can fully extract the pressure of dicarboxylic acids, there is no particular limitation, however
In the case of being carried out continuously, usually operate under atmospheric pressure. 
 (protonation process) 
 When dicarboxylic acids is recovered in solvent by abstraction process, dicarboxylic acids is made in the aqueous solution containing the dicarboxylic acids
In the presence of the aqueous solution of salt, the salt of dicarboxylic acids and/or dicarboxylic acids is extracted to and the aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids sometimes
Amount in the solvent of phase separation is few, and it is advantageous to add acid in the aqueous solution to be protonated. 
 For example, when obtaining dicarboxylic acids by the raw material from biomass resource, ferment using caused by microorganism
In the case of dicarboxylic acids, in order to effectively ferment, the hydrogen ion concentration (pH) of zymotic fluid is adjusted sometimes, is carrying out alkali neutralization
In the case of, dicarboxylic acids exists as the aqueous solution of salt, thus is particularly preferably protonated.Such as ammonia is used in fermentation operation
In the case of neutralizer, dicarboxylic acids exists as ammonium salt, thus preferably carries out the protonation using acid. 
 It, can as long as adding the process before sour protonation process is abstraction process in the aqueous solution containing dicarboxylic acids
Think the process implemented in any stage.The acid used in protonation process is exchanged due to needing with dicarboxylate progress salt, institute
It is less than 4 acid with sour, the usual pKa for generally preferably using the acid stronger than dicarboxylic acids, i.e. acid ionization constant pKa smaller than dicarboxylic acids. 
 Can be organic acid as the acid used, or inorganic acid, and can be monoacid, or it is more
First acid, however it is preferred that inorganic acid.In the case where using sulfuric acid in protonating process, ammonium sulfate is generated as secondary raw salt.This system
It makes in method, in the case where inorganic salts are secondary raw salt, can expect effect pair of saltouing caused by secondary raw salt in abstraction process
The improvement of Liquid liquid Separation character, so being preferred. 
 Although the amount that acid is added is also different because of the intensity of acid used, usually relative to constitute the sun of dicarboxylate from
The acid of son amount 0.1~5 times of equivalent degree of addition.In general, the addition of acid is adjusted by pH.Although pH is also because the acid of dicarboxylic acids is strong
Spend pKa and different, but at least pKa or less.It is preferred that be less than pH4 operations.On the other hand, even if acid is excessively added, pH's
It reduces, effect also can be stagnated slowly, and excessive acid does not occur salt with dicarboxylate and exchanges and be present in system as acid.It is remaining
Acid finally mutually recycled as raffinate in subsequent abstraction process, processing needs neutralisation treatment etc. again, inefficiency.Cause
This, pH is preferably controlled to 1 or more. 
 (II. extracts phase enrichment process) 
 Generally, since the dicarboxyl acid concentration in extraction phase is dilute, so needing concentration operation.Enrichment is not limited especially
It is fixed, however it is preferred that finally the solubility of the dicarboxylic acids in concentrate is saturation solubility hereinafter, and molten as close possible to being saturated
Xie Du. 
 In addition, the solvent for extraction in most cases forms minimum azeotrope composition with water, in azeotropic composition mostly
For the solvent composition bigger than the ratio of water.Therefore, with concentration operation, a large amount of solvents are distilled off, the solvent in concentrate is dense
Degree is in most cases lower than before concentrating. 
 Impurity of the dicarboxylic acids obtained by the raw material from biomass resource due to generally comprising more high water solubility, so
In subsequent crystallization process, compared with the system that solvent coexists, there is system existing for water that can expect higher refining effect.
In addition, if dissolvent residual is to subsequent handling, recycling is more difficult from, so the solvent strength after concentration is preferably set to
1% or less. 
 In order to make final concentrate solvent strength be 1% hereinafter, and make dicarboxyl acid concentration near saturation solubility,
It is preferred that adding water before concentration and/or during concentration operation. 
 (III. crystallizations process) 
 Crystallization process is usually following process：For the dicarboxylic acids in the solution containing extraction phase, the molten of dicarboxylic acids is utilized
Solution degree difference etc. makes the dicarboxylic acids of solid be precipitated.As long as but the process is to make dicarboxylic acids as solid from the solution for containing extraction phase
The process that body is precipitated, can crystallization by any method. 
 More specifically, for example, following method：Change solution temperature, is analysed using the temperature dependency of solubility
Brilliant cooling crystallization method；Make solvent from volatilizing in solution by the operations such as heating or depressurize and improves the dicarboxyl acid concentration in solution
The method for carrying out crystallization；And the method etc. of their combinations. 
 In addition, its cooling means is used as in cooling crystallization, such as having makes the solution containing extraction phase be recycled to external heat
The method and the pipe input for the refrigerant that circulates is contained into the method etc. in the solution for extracting phase that exchanger etc. is cooled to. 
 Wherein, the solvent in solution is made to volatilize according to will be depressurized in device, it is cold to be carried out by the heat of gasification of solvent
But method can prevent dicarboxylic acids that the caused blocking to heat transfer is precipitated in heat exchange interface, while also with solution
In dicarboxylic acids concentration, be also preferred from the aspect of crystallization yield. 
 In addition, crystallization operation can also be operated continuously with batch operation, however it is based on that obtained solid dicarboxylic acids can be made
Grain size fluctuation it is small, high efficiency carries out the reasons such as the energy needed for crystallization when can reduce mass production, preferably operate continuously.
Crystallization device is not necessarily to be special crystallization slot, can use well known stirred tank. 
 (IV. solid-liquid separation process) 
 The dicarboxylic acids slurry obtained in crystallization is separated into dicarboxylic acid crystallizates and mother liquor by operation by being separated by solid-liquid separation.Separation side
Method is not particularly limited, for example, be separated by filtration with sedimentation separation etc..In addition, operation can be in batches, or
Continuously.Such as the solid-liquid separating machine as excellent in efficiency, it can be cited for example that the centrifugations such as continuous filter centrifugal and decanter
Putting-down machine etc.. 
 In addition, according to the purity of required dicarboxylic acids, the wet cake cold water recycled in operation can will be separated by solid-liquid separation
Deng rinsing. 
 (V. crystallization mother liquor recycles process) 
 At least part of the mother liquor and/or cleaning solution that are obtained in solid-liquid separation process can be recycled to crystallization process it
In preceding process.The process of recycling is not particularly limited, however abstraction process and enrichment process can be recycled to. 
 Although be recycled to abstraction process, extraction column increases, and is easy to be assigned in water phase (distribution coefficient is small)
Impurity can be optionally removed out of recirculation system.On the other hand, reduce although being recycled to extraction column when enrichment process
, but the impurity of fixedness is all accumulated in recirculation system. 
 Whole mother liquors and rinsing liquid can also be recycled, but due to being operated during growing in succession, so that impurity is accumulated in and follow again
In member ring systems, it is advantageous to will be scavenged into outside system at least partially.Usually by ejected wash water after the processing of the organic matters such as activated sludge
(パ ー ジ water) become waste water, but ejected wash water contains dicarboxylic acids, and pH is low, so as the bacterium used recycled in fermentation operation
The inactivation inorganic agent of body is effective. 
 Recirculation operation can be according to the specification of required dicarboxylic acids, to determine recirculation volume, recycling place. 
 (other refining steps) 
 The dicarboxylic acids obtained with the aforedescribed process is sometimes for further applicable refinement treatment and drying process.That is, from
When carrying out refined in the zymotic fluid containing dicarboxylic acids, in most cases in addition to the nitrogen contained by biomass resource, reduces and
Permitted polymictic amount from zymogenic nitrogen, ammonia, the impurity of sulfur-bearing and metal cation etc. to be important.In addition, sometimes
It needs to make the content of coloring components and smell component contained in dicarboxylic acids to reduce, or makes in the ultraviolet range of 250~300nm
It is 0.05 or less that the impurity level that display absorbs, which is reduced to mean light absorbency,. 
 As the removal method of such impurity, for example, by the adsorbents such as activated carbon carry out bleaching process,
Using ion exchange resin by ion-exchange process that coexisting ion class removes, using the hydrogenation of the unsaturated dicarboxylic coexisted as mesh
Hydrogen treatment process and for processing such as further highly refined crystallization processes. 
 In addition, the minimizing technology as smell component, for example, the deodorization carried out by adsorbents such as activated carbons
Method, cleaning minimizing technology, Crystallization method and aeration etc. using organic solvent exist as other methods in catalyst
Under hydrogen processing be effective. 
 In the deodour method of these dicarboxylic acids, such as in the feelings for containing succinic acid as the ingredient derived from biomass resource
Under condition, contain a small amount of fumaric acid in the liquid containing dicarboxylic acids sometimes, so if carrying out hydrogen processing, can not only be easy
Ground removes the smell component in dicarboxylic acids, and generates succinic acid from fumaric acid, while realizing that the yield of succinic acid improves, thus
Hydrogen facture becomes especially excellent method. 
 In addition, in order to make the impurity that the display of the ultraviolet ranges 250~300nm absorbs contained in aliphatic dicarboxylic acid reduce
To mean light absorbency for 0.05 hereinafter, being further combined crystallization processing while carrying out hydrogen processing to aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, living
Property the refinement treatments such as charcoal processing come the method implemented be effective. 
 Hereinafter, the embodiment about these each process, illustrates the case where dicarboxylic acids is succinic acid and is described in detail, so
And these explanations are the typical examples of embodiment, however it is not limited to this. 
 Hydrogen processing can be batch-type, continuous any reaction formation, can be carried out according to existing known method.Make
For hydrogen processing specific method, for example, solution and hydrogenation catalyst containing succinic acid is made to coexist in pressurized reactor
In, hydrogen is imported while stirring the mixture and carries out hydrogen processing, and reaction solution and the hydrogenation that treated containing succinic acid are urged
Agent detaches, the method taken out from reactor；Using fixed bed multitube or the reactor of single hose, on one side from reactor
Lower part makes the solution containing succinic acid and hydrogen circulation, carries out hydrogen processing on one side, takes out treated the reaction solution containing succinic acid
Method；And make hydrogen from the lower part of reactor, the solution containing succinic acid is made to circulate from top, carry out hydrogen processing, taking-up processing
The method etc. of the reaction solution containing succinic acid afterwards. 
 As hydrogenation catalyst, the hydrogenating catalytic containing noble metal of well known homogeneous system and heterogeneous system can be used
Agent.It is specifically not particularly limited, the hydrogenation catalyst containing noble metals such as ruthenium, rhodium, palladium and platinum can be enumerated, preferably contain in these
There is a hydrogenation catalyst of palladium and platinum, especially the further preferably hydrogenation catalyst of palladium. 
 These hydrogenation catalysts can directly use the above-mentioned compound containing noble metal, or with the coordinations such as organic phosphine
Body coexists to use, however from catalyst detach easiness the reasons why, the catalysis containing noble metal of preferably heterogeneous system
Agent. 
 Furthermore it is possible in metal oxides such as silica or titanium, zirconium oxide and activated aluminas or theirs is compound
Metal oxide or activated carbon coexist the lower compound to these containing noble metal and carry out hydrogen processing.This method is due to can not only go
Except smell component contained in the obtained succinic acid of fermentation, and can Adsorption coloring components or organic impurities simultaneously, can
To effectively remove impurity, so being preferred mode. 
 By above-mentioned noble-metal-supported in the metal oxides such as silica or titanium, zirconium oxide and activated alumina or it
Metal composite oxide or the carriers such as activated carbon on obtain catalyst, can also realize same effect when using the catalyst
Fruit, so also preferably using the method using these supported catalysts. 
 The load capacity of noble metal is preferably generally 0.1~10 weight % of carrier.In addition, as carrier, do not limit especially
It is fixed, however from the few reason of the stripping quantity of the metal in hydrogen processing, preferably silica or activated carbon, particularly preferably activity
Charcoal. 
 Therefore, by noble-metal-supported the metal oxides such as silica or titanium, zirconium oxide and activated alumina or it
Metal composite oxide or the carriers such as activated carbon on and obtain hydrogenation catalyst, carried out at hydrogen using the hydrogenation catalyst
The mode of reason utilizes hydrogen in the presence of being contained in any adsorbent in the group selected from metal oxide, silica and activated carbon
In the definition for changing the mode that catalyst carries out hydrogen processing. 
 For the solvent containing the ingredient derived from biomass resource when being handled as hydrogen, for example, water；Acetic acid
With the organic acids such as propionic acid；The esters such as ethyl acetate；Methanol, ethyl alcohol, propyl alcohol, isopropanol, butanol, 2- ethyl -1- hexanols and isobutyl
The alcohols such as alcohol；The ethers such as ether, di-n-butyl ether, diisopropyl ether, di-n-butyl ether, tetrahydrofuran and dioxane；Acetone, methyl ethyl ketone
With the ketones such as metacetone；The nitriles such as acetonitrile；And their mixed solvent etc..Most preferably water in these. 
 The generally preferable deionized water of water, distilled water, rivers and creeks water, well water, tap water etc. can also hydrogenate as needed
By succinic acid crystallization from the reaction solution containing succinic acid in rear process after reaction, Reusability filters out the solution after crystal.It is molten
As long as the succinic acid concentration in liquid is the saturation solubility of liquid temperature or less. 
 The content of the fumaric acid of unsaturated dicarboxylic is relative to succinic acid weight contained in the succinic acid handled for hydrogen
Amount, lower limit are preferably generally 0.01 weight % or more, more preferably 0.05 weight % or more, the upper limit be preferably 10 weight % with
Under, more preferably 5 weight % or less.By the way that the content of fumaric acid is set as 0.01 weight % or more, it can prevent hydrogen from handling
Process for refining before process complicates.On the other hand, by the way that fumaric acid content is set as 10 weight % hereinafter, can prevent
Hydrogen processing needs for a long time, to inhibit the precipitation of the low fumaric acid of solubility, can prevent the amber that can not prepare high concentration
The projects such as acid solution. 
 The hydrogen used can be pure hydrogen, and can also use through the diluted hydrogen of the inert gases such as nitrogen, helium and argon.In hydrogen
Carbonomonoxide concentration due to worry influence hydrogen treatment effeciency, it is generally preferred that for 10000ppm hereinafter, more preferably
2000ppm is hereinafter, further preferably 1000ppm or less. 
 The lower limit of hydrogen pressure when hydrogen processing is preferably generally 0.1MPa or more, and the upper limit is preferably generally 5MPa hereinafter, more excellent
3MPa is selected as hereinafter, further preferably 1MPa or less.By the way that hydrogen pressure is set as 0.1MPa or more, reaction speed can be improved
Degree, prevents until reaction terminates the overspending time.On the other hand, by the way that hydrogen pressure is set as 5MPa hereinafter, can be to prevent
Only because catalyst or due to reaction condition the succinic acids such as secondary Centime glycol, tetrahydrofuran hydride. 
 The lower limit of temperature when hydrogen processing is preferably generally 30 DEG C or more, more preferably 50 DEG C or more, and the upper limit is usually excellent
150 DEG C are selected as hereinafter, more preferably 120 DEG C or less.By the way that reaction temperature is set as 30 DEG C or more, reaction speed can be improved
Degree, prevents until reaction terminates the overspending time.On the other hand, by the way that reaction temperature is set as 150 DEG C hereinafter, can be with
While preventing the hydride of secondary Unripe amber acid, it can prevent the by-products such as malic acid from increasing when using water as solvent. 
 As the crystallization solvent in crystallization processing, for example, the organic acids such as water, acetic acid and propionic acid；Ethyl acetate etc.
Esters；The alcohols such as methanol, ethyl alcohol, propyl alcohol, isopropanol, butanol, 2- ethyl -1- hexanols and isobutanol；Ether, di-n-butyl ether, two
The ethers such as isopropyl ether, di-n-butyl ether, tetrahydrofuran and dioxane；The ketones such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone and metacetone；The nitriles such as acetonitrile
Class；And their mixed solvent etc..Most preferably water in these.As water, it is usually preferred to deionized water, distilled water, rivers and creeks water,
Well water and tap water etc.. 
 Recrystallization temperature can be selected from preferably 0~90 DEG C, more preferable 0~85 DEG C or so of range.Cooling velocity can be with
From preferably 1~120 DEG C/hr, more preferable 5~60 DEG C/hr degree range in select, preferably under normal pressure (for example, 1atm is left
It is right), decompression is lower or pressurization is lower carries out.In addition, the curing time can from preferably 0.1~5 hour, it is 0.5~4 hour more preferable, into
It is suitably selected in preferably 0.5~2 hour or so range of one step. 
 Above-mentioned crystallization processing and activated carbon processing when necessary are combined, can make contained in succinic acid 250~
It is 0.05 or less that the impurity level that the display of the ultraviolet ranges 300nm absorbs, which is reduced to mean light absorbency,. 
 As the activated carbon used, coal system, wooden system, cocoanut shell system, resin system etc. can be used arbitrary known living
Property charcoal.Further, it is possible to use the various raw material activated carbons such as these coal systems, wooden system, cocoanut shell system and resin system are passed through gas
The activated carbon of the methods of chemicals activation method such as body activation method, vapor activation, zinc chloride and phosphoric acid activation. 
 Specifically, for example, Calgon Mitsubishi Chemical Cor manufacture karr ridge CPG, karr ridge CAL,
Karr ridge SGL, DIASORB W, DIAHOPE MS10, DIAHOPE M010, DIAHOPE MS16, DIAHOPE 6MD,
GAC, GAC that DIAHOPE 6MW, DIAHOPE 8ED, DIAHOPE ZGN4 and CENTUR, NORIT Co., Ltd. of Japan manufacture
PLUS, GCN PLUS, C GRAN, RO, ROX, DARCO, CN, SX, SX PLUS, SA, SX, PK and W, KURARAY CHEMICAL
GW, GWH, GLC, 4GC, KW, PW and PK of Co., Ltd.'s manufacture, HC-30S, GL- of the manufacture of TSURUMICOAL societies of Co., Ltd.
30S, 4G-3S, PA, PC, P, W, CW, SG, SGP, S, GB, CA and K of Futamura Kagaku Kabushiki Kais's manufacture, Japan
EnviroChemicals Co., Ltd. manufacture SHIRASAGI KL, SHIRASAGI W2C, SHIRASAGI WH2C,
SHIRASAGI W5C、SHIRASAGI WH5C、SHIRASAGI WH5X、SHIRASAGI XS7100H-3、CARBORAFFIN、
SHIRASAGI A, SHIRASAGI C and the manufacture of society of SHIRASAGI M and AJINOMOTO FINE TECHNO Co., Ltd.
HOKUETSU CL-K, HOKUETSU HS and HOKUETSU KS etc.. 
 In these, from that can effectively remove contained in aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, particularly succinic acid in 250~300nm purples
The reasons why impurity that the display of outside line region absorbs, sets out, preferably palm shell charcoal and carbo lignius. 
 On the other hand, from the viewpoint of effectively removing the coloring components of aliphatic dicarboxylic acid, particularly succinic acid, preferably
The activated carbon activated by the methods of chemicals activation method such as gas activation, vapor activation, zinc chloride and phosphoric acid,
In preferably through the chemicals such as vapor activation, zinc chloride and phosphoric acid activate activated carbon, particularly preferably through zinc chloride and phosphorus
The activated carbon of the chemicals such as acid activation. 
 The shape of the activated carbon used can be any of dust active carbon, broken charcoal, forming charcoal and fibrous activated carbon.?
It is filled in column in the case of use, from the reasons why inhibiting tower to press, preferably granular or granular activated carbon. 
 As the mode of activated carbon processing, the method being separated by filtration after being mixed with activated carbon by batch-type, liquid
Either method in the method that body passes through the filled layer of activated carbon.Processing time is preferably generally 5 points in the case of batch-type
Clock~5 hour, more preferably 10 minutes~2 hours, usually as SV (air speed) be preferably 0.1 in the case of filled layer mode
~20hr -1 .Treatment temperature is preferably generally 20~90 DEG C. 
 In turn, in order to remove the impurity in succinic acid, the purification operations such as treatment on ion exchange columns can be shared.Herein, institute
It refers to the deionization of making a return journey by the way that liquid to be processed is flowed through the column filled with ion exchange resin to call treatment on ion exchange columns
Class. 
 Ion exchange resin, example should be selected according to the purity of ion, necessary succinic acid contained by liquid to be processed
Such as in order to remove sulfate ion and chlorion anion, anion exchange resin (OH types) can be used, in order to remove gold
Belong to ion, the cations such as ammonium ion, cation exchange resin (H-type) can be used, however can also use as needed this two
Kind resin. 
 Ion exchange resin can be classified as strongly acidic cation exchange tree according to the intensity as acid or alkali of its functional group
Fat, weak-acid cation-exchange resin, strong-base anion-exchange resin, weak-base anion-exchange resin, and then according to it
Shape can be classified as gel-type, porous type, however ion exchange resin as used herein is not particularly limited.But consider ion
When the efficiency of exchange, it is preferable to use as acid or the stronger storng-acid cation exchange resin of intensity, the strong alkalinity anion of alkali
Exchanger resin.In addition, it is preferable to use the gel-type of more general low cost when its shape of not special reason is porous type.
Specifically, Diaion SK1B (H-type) etc. can be illustrated as cation exchange resin, can be illustrated as anion exchange resin
Diaion SA10A etc.. 
 Treatment on ion exchange columns can carry out in following temperature range：Succinic acid is set to be dissolved in liquid to be processed
The temperature range of heat resisting temperature more than temperature and less than ion exchange resin.That is, for cation exchange resin, although place
It is also different in response to the succinic acid concentration in treatment liquid to manage temperature, but is generally preferably handled at 20~100 DEG C.Another party
Face, anion exchange resin is due to lower than the heat resistance of cation exchange resin, it is generally preferred that at 10~80 DEG C
Reason.From the viewpoint for the treatment of temperature using anion-exchange column handle when, preferably succinic acid concentration it is low, can be lower
The process that temperature carries out column processing. 
 In addition, its liquid communication processing method is not particularly limited, however generally preferably with air speed (SV) 0.1~10hr -1 、
Superficial linear velocity in a column 1~20m/hr processing.By the way that the processing speed is set as the upper limit hereinafter, to prevent the pressure before and after column
Power loss becomes larger, and ion exchange becomes abundant.In addition, by the way that the processing speed is set as the lower limit or more, can prevent
Unnecessarily increase column. 
 In usual column processing, ion concentration is constantly or periodically measured in column outlet, if finding that ion leaks down in column outlet
(リ ー Network), then regeneration treatment is carried out to ion exchange resin.Regeneration of ion-exchange resin is carried out according to usual way, sun
Ion exchange resin can utilize the acid regenerations such as sulfuric acid and hydrochloric acid, anion exchange resin that can utilize the alkali such as sodium hydroxide again
It is raw. 
 When dicarboxylic acids obtained by using is as polymer raw material, it is sometimes desirable to the ultraviolet ranges 250~300nm be made to show
It is 0.05 or less that the impurity level of absorption, which is reduced to mean light absorbency,.In this case, mean light absorbency be preferably 0.03 hereinafter, especially
Preferably 0.01 or less.If the high aliphatic dicarboxylic acid of mean light absorbency is used as polymer raw material, manufacture sometimes
Polymer discoloration it is notable. 
 Absorbance in this specification is in the case where aliphatic dicarboxylic acid is succinic acid, by the succinic acid of 3.0wt%
Aqueous solution is added in the quartz cell of optical length 1cm, with the value of ultravioletvisible absorption spectrophotometric determination.In the present specification,
Absorbance is measured using ultravioletvisible absorption spectrophotometer (Hitachi spectrophotometer UV-3500), however can be used commercially available
Ultravioletvisible absorption spectrophotometric determination. 
 Herein, so-called absorbance (A) is absorbance when being measured with optical length 1cm, and is that foundation is such as given a definition
Calculated value. 
 A=log 10 (I 0 / I) (herein, I 0 =incident intensity, I=penetrate luminous intensity.) 
 In addition, the mean light absorbency in the ultraviolet ranges 250~300nm refers to being measured every 1nm between 250~300nm
Absorbance summation divided by 51 obtained values. 
 Mean light absorbency=(every the summation of the absorbance of 1nm between 250~300nm)/51 
 In the present specification, as the above-mentioned impurity absorbed in the display of the ultraviolet ranges 250~300nm, without special
Limitation, however the compound with nitrogen can be enumerated or show the compound of armaticity.As the compound, such as can be with
Enumerate the nitrogenous heteroaromatic compounds such as the oxygen-containing heteroaromatic compound such as furans, pyrroles, pyridine and pyrazine and phenol, benzene
The BTX aromatics compound such as formaldehyde and benzoic acid. 
 Specifically, for example, furfural, furfuryl alcohol, methyl furfuryl alcohol, hydroxymethylfurfural, chaff propylhomoser, pyrroles's -2- first
Aldehyde, pyrrol-carboxylic acid, methylpyrrole carboxylic acid, picolinic acid, pyridinedicarboxylic acid, methylpicolinic acid, picoline dicarboxylic acids, pyrrole
Piperazine, 2- methylpyrazines, dimethyl pyrazine, trimethylpyrazine, Tetramethylpyrazine, phenol, benzoic acid, salicylic acid and creosotic acid etc.
Monohydroxy benzoic acids；Pyrocatechuic acid (pyrocatechuic acid) and protocatechuic acid (protocatechuic acid) etc. two
Hydroxybenzoic acid；The trihydroxybenzoic acids such as gallic acid；The aromatic aldehydes such as benzaldehyde, tolyl aldehyde and dimethylbenzaldehyde；
And their mixture etc..In addition, including isomers sometimes in above compound, the illustration of above compound includes whole
Isomers. 
 As described above according to the difference of the type of activated carbon, the impurity kind of removal is different, so being removed as these impurity
Method, for example, combining the method for various active charcoal kind, handling activated carbon processing and above-mentioned hydrogen processing or crystallization
The method of combination.In addition, when using water as solvent, it is mixed into sometimes in the dicarboxylic acid solution from fermentation not soluble in water
Ingredient.Such insoluble component is mixed into the efficiency for causing activated carbon to remove above-mentioned impurity or the efficiency of refining step thereafter
It reduces, it is advantageous to remove insoluble component in advance. 
 The preferably following method of the removal of insoluble component：For example, being derived as amber in the succinate by being generated by fermentation method
To the amber in the process during before activated carbon treatment process, obtained to fermentation through processing using well known film after amber acid
Acid solution implements the removal of insoluble component.In addition, as other methods, also preferably with the following method：Make powdered work
Property charcoal coexist to adsorb insoluble component, to improve permeability of the film through processing, or will be upper using Powdered Activated Carbon appropriate
The impurity stated and insoluble component Adsorption simultaneously. 
 In addition, when combining to implement impurity removal crystallization or/and activated carbon processing with hydrogen processing, do not limit especially
It is fixed, however in order to effectively remove impurity, preferably using implementing crystallization or/and activated carbon treatment process before hydrogen treatment process
Technique can also be suitable for always removing impurity from the succinic acid solution of biomass resource. 
 Although the succinic acid recycled in crystallization different because of its purposes in terms of drying, can be done by conventional method
It is dry.In general, drying to succinic acid moisture content is preferably 0.1~2 weight %, more preferably 0.2~1 weight %. 
 Drying means is not particularly limited, according to heating type can use with the direct-fired direct-heating type of hot wind,
Pass through the indirect heating type etc. of the progress such as steam.It is taken as the drying machine of hot wind, for example, box like dryer, belt
Drying machine, rotary drier etc..In addition, be taken as the drying machine of indirectly heat, for example, cylindrical drier and
Tray drier etc.. 
 In addition, its operating pressure can be normal pressure, or decompression.Moreover, its mode of operation can be batch operation,
Or continuous operation.In terms of hot blast temperature, 20~200 DEG C, more preferably 50~150 are preferably generally in face temperatures
DEG C carry out.By the way that temperature is set as 20 DEG C or more, the high decompression of dry needs can be prevented.In addition, by the way that temperature is set as
200 DEG C hereinafter, can prevent succinic acid dehydration from generating succinic anhydride. 
 In addition, by the method for following record, dicarboxylic acids can also be refined in same degree.Hereinafter, remembering as an example
Carry process for purification when dicarboxylic acids is succinic acid. 
 That is, it is also effective, the reaction-crystallization to carry out the method for reaction-crystallization process under the coexisting of alcohol with the multistage
In process, by make it is as described above using microorganism by the ammonium succinate of fermenting and producing or its solution reacted with monocarboxylic acid, it is raw
At succinic acid, at the same time it is precipitated the succinic acid of generation.As long as the monocarboxylic acid used is that can convert ammonium succinate to amber
The monocarboxylic acid of acid, is just not particularly limited, but preferably acetic acid or propionic acid. 
 In addition, so-called " carrying out reaction-crystallization process with the multistage " refers to the addition monocarboxylic acid in ammonium succinate reaction solution
It, will be by the succinic acids ammonium salts such as mono succinate ammonium salt that the reaction-crystallization of paragraph 1 is precipitated after the reaction-crystallization for carrying out paragraph 1
Mesosome detaches, and monocarboxylic acid is rejoined in the intermediate of separation to carry out the 2nd section of reaction-crystallization, is further repeated when necessary
The separation of intermediate and the reaction-crystallization carried out by monocarboxylic acid.Such multistage reaction-crystallization is when impurity is more and passes through
It is particularly effective when crystallization is by amber acid recovery in mother liquor again etc.. 
 So-called " multistage " indicates 2 sections or more, preferably indicates 2~4 sections, however carrying out reaction-crystallizations with several sections in total can be with
It is arbitrarily set according to reaction scale and required purity etc..It can be obtained in final stage for carrying out reaction-crystallization with several sections
Free succinic acid preferably carries out preliminary experiment etc. to preset total number of stages. 
 Specific crystallization device for reaction-crystallization process can use usually used crystallization slot in addition to stirred tank,
Regardless of its shape and method, as long as the device that can be crystallized by liquid-solid equilibria phenomenon.Such as it can lift
Go out Krystal-Oslo types, water conservancy diversion cartridge type, stirring groove profile and Swenson types etc.. 
 Stage (leading portion) of the condition of reaction-crystallization in terminal stage and in addition to this is different.Firstly, for leading portion
Condition illustrate.That is, as it is desirable that succinic acid diammonium is converted to mono succinate ammonium as far as possible, so addition in leading portion
Monocarboxylic acid amount preferably with respect to ammonium succinate be equimolar more than.Wherein, molten because of monocarboxylic acid if additive amount is excessive
Agent effect and so that the rate of recovery is reduced, thus preferably 5 times moles or less.In addition, according to the amount of the ammonia and water that coexist, increase and decrease is best
Value. 
 Using acetic acid, the upper limit of acetic acid amount is obviously dependent on temperature by the left and right of solubility.In addition,
The region of pH high, viscosity is high, and filtering takes a long time, thus the weight ratio of ammonia and acetic acid is still more preferably 14 or more,
On the other hand, if using a large amount of acetic acid, energy is needed to be recycled, thus the weight ratio of ammonia and acetic acid preferably 100 with
Under, it is still more preferably 30 or less.Using propionic acid, the lower limiting value of pH is more than acetic acid.The upper limit value of pH depends on
In the equilibrium relation and solubility of salt exchange reaction, thus it is identical as acetic acid.Therefore, narrow range of the condition than acetic acid. 
 The condition of the temperature and pressure of leading portion is not particularly limited, however according to the type of alcohol and monocarboxylic acid used and
Amount, crystallization device, are restricted sometimes.For example, using a large amount of methanol, if being set as vacuum pressure, first
Alcohol evaporates, and can not condense, and recycling becomes difficult, thus is not preferably set as vacuum pressure. 
 In addition, even if keeping some pressure, it is also required to refrigerator sometimes, thus it is different according to the crystallization device used, so
And for example, temperature is preferably set to 0 DEG C to 50 DEG C, pressure is preferably set to normal pressure to 5KPa. 
 Above-mentioned reaction-crystallization is carried out under the coexisting of alcohol, as the alcohol coexisted, preferably monohydric alcohol.Additionally, it is preferred that carbon atom
The alcohol that number is 1~3.Particularly preferred methanol, ethyl alcohol, 1- propyl alcohol and 2- propyl alcohol. 
 Alcohol is added in leading portion, and additive amount is preferably relative to total weight of ammonium succinate reaction solution and monocarboxylic acid
5 weight % or more and 40 weight % or less.By making alcohol coexist, the viscosity of the mixture of ammonium succinate and acetic acid reduces, so
The improved efficiency of reaction-crystallization.In addition, when as carried out fermenting and producing ammonium succinate solution using microorganism, it is molten in ammonium succinate
In the case of being mixed with carbohydrate in liquid, also have the effect of detaching carbohydrate. 
 So after leading portion addition alcohol carries out reaction-crystallization, ammonium succinate is recycled, makes the alcohol of reaction system in terminal stage
The range of a concentration of 0.1ppm~10%, addition monocarboxylic acid carry out reaction-crystallization.Alcohol is not preferably added in terminal stage to carry out instead
Answer crystallization. 
 In addition, even if amber can be contained what is come out from the crystallization slot close to terminal stage if in the case where not adding alcohol
There are considerable amount of alcohol in the slurry of amber acid ammonium, so the determining alcohol of the reaction-crystallization slot in order to make terminal stage is 0.1ppm
~10% range removes the alcohol in slurry preferably by the slurries filtration, drying, cleaning etc.. 
 In addition, reaction-crystallization system can contain water, but in this case, it is preferred that the water in terminal stage reaction-crystallization slot is dense
Degree is also 10% or less.It is therefore preferable that containing ammonium succinate by what is obtained in the crystallization slot in that stage close to terminal stage
Slurries filtration, drying and cleaning etc., while removing the alcohol and water in slurry. 
 As the method for removing alcohol, water from the slurry containing ammonium succinate obtained by leading portion, for example, before for coming from
The slurry of section crystallization slot, by the way that the mother liquor separation of common filtering or centrifugation (centrifugal settler) etc. will be based on, using second
The proper combinations such as cleaning, rinsing, drying or the distillation of solution of filtrate (mother liquor) of acid or terminal stage, can detach water or
Alcohol.Alternatively, it is also possible to be handled by centrifugal filtration or press filtration etc., alcohol or water are removed. 
 By any means, the crystallization containing succinic acid is obtained in the slurry obtained from leading portion, or obtain concentrate, in turn
By carrying out the crystallization of the terminal stage using acetic acid, to obtain succinic acid.The crystallization condition preferred alcohols of terminal stage are 1ppm
~10% range, the range that water is 1ppm~10%, still more preferably water, alcohol is respectively 5% or less.At this point, available
The pH of succinic acid is typically about 2.1 (dissolved states) to about 4.5 (filtered fluids).It is 13.4 that this, which is equivalent to ammonia and the weight ratio of acetic acid,
More than. 
 In addition, due to by the way that the weight ratio of ammonia and acetic acid is set as 1:14 or more, it can prevent filtering from spending the time, because
And still more preferably the weight ratio of ammonia and acetic acid is 1:14 or more.On the other hand, due to that can prevent because using a large amount of acetic acid
And energy is needed to be recycled, thus the weight ratio of ammonia and acetic acid is preferably 1:100 hereinafter, further preferably 1:50 hereinafter,
Particularly preferably 1:30 or less. 
 Temperature is lower, and the rate of recovery is higher, however in pH close to 2.1 region, 16 DEG C of the fusing point of acetic acid is lower limiting value, the upper limit
It is dominated by solubility, it is often preferred that 40 DEG C or less.Further preferably 20 DEG C to 35 DEG C.In regions of the pH close to 4.5, by
Be likely to decrease in the solidification point of acetic acid, it is advantageous to 10 DEG C or more, the upper limit is dominated by solubility, it is often preferred that 60 DEG C with
Under.Further preferably 15 DEG C to 40 DEG C. 
 In addition, the crystallization that the acetic acid amount added in the crystallization of terminal stage is obtained relative to leading portion, with weight ratio meter
Preferably 0.8 times to 3.5 times or so. 
 For the reaction-crystallization of the terminal stage, device is not particularly limited, common crystallization device can be used,
Such as Krystal-Oslo types, water conservancy diversion cartridge type, stirring groove profile and Swenson types etc..The slurry of gained is used into filtering and centrifugation
The common methods such as separation are separated by solid-liquid separation, and succinic acid can be obtained.If being cleaned to crystallization using cold water and acetic acid,
It can obtain the higher succinic acid of purity. 
 The succinic acid being precipitated in terminal stage separates and collects by conventional method.As partition method, for example,
Common filter operation, using suction filter pressure filtration or be filtered under diminished pressure and centrifuge.In addition, as described above, most
The whole stage has collected the mother liquor after succinic acid and can utilize again to clean the slurry obtained in leading portion.Moreover, as needed
Disengaging subprocessing can be carried out with cation exchange resin etc..The crystallization of the succinic acid obtained in this way may further be as needed
It is thermally dried or is dried under reduced pressure. 
 Contain nitrogen-atoms as impurity in the dicarboxylic acids derived from biomass resource, which provided from biomass
Source, fermentation process and include being brought using the refinement treatment of neutralization step of acid. 
 Specifically contain the nitrogen-atoms from amino acid, protein, ammonium salt, urea and microorganism etc..By as described above
Process for purification, control the pKa value contained in dicarboxylic acids at 25 DEG C be 3.7 organic acid, nitrogen compound or metal sun below from
The amount of son, this is important for obtaining the polymer of usual practicality. 
 The pKa value contained in the dicarboxylic acids derived from biomass resource at 25 DEG C is 3.7 below to have in aforementioned manners
For machine acid relative to dicarboxylic acids, lower limiting value is typically larger than 0ppm, preferably 0.001ppm or more, further preferably 0.01ppm with
On, more preferably 0.05ppm or more, particularly preferably 0.07ppm or more, most preferably 0.1ppm or more.Upper limit value is usually
1000ppm hereinafter, preferably 800ppm hereinafter, more preferably 600ppm or less. 
 If the amount that the pKa value contained in dicarboxylic acids at 25 DEG C is 3.7 organic acids below is more than 1000ppm, make
Viscosity for the polyester polyol of urethane raw increases, and processing operation is deteriorated, and the gelation etc. when polyurethane-reinforcement reacts is led
Cause molecular weight increases extremely or molecular weight distribution is extremely big, has the poly- ammonia for forming the mechanical properties such as flexibility and elongation
The tendency of ester.In addition, if the organic acid content is excessive, content is easy to generate fluctuation, not only the physical property of gained polyurethane
It is unstable, and there is also be difficult to stablize the tendency of operation in manufacturing process. 
 In addition, being more than 0ppm by setting the organic acid, prevents the refining step of dicarboxylic acids from complicating, be economically
It is advantageous, meanwhile, the mechanical strength after polyurethane, which is made, has the tendency promoted. 
 In addition, the purification condition by combining fermentation condition as described above and extraction and crystallization etc., can control 25 DEG C
Under pKa value be 3.7 organic acid contents below.In addition, as needed, can also be added in the few dicarboxylic acids of organic acid content
Organic acid is adjusted.In addition, via for organic acid content to be controlled to the process in suitable range, to by biomass resource
Nitrogen atom content or sulphur atom content can also control contained in derivative dicarboxylic acids, can obtain being suitable for obtaining usually practical
Polymer dicarboxylic acids. 
 In dicarboxylic acids, nitrogen atom content contained in the dicarboxylic acids derived from biomass resource is opposite with the aforedescribed process
In the dicarboxylic acids, by quality ratio, the upper limit is preferably generally 2000ppm hereinafter, more preferably 1000ppm is hereinafter, further excellent
100ppm is selected as hereinafter, most preferably 50ppm or less.Lower limit is preferably generally 0.01ppm or more, more preferably 0.05ppm with
On, consider from the reasons why economy of refining step, further preferably 0.1ppm or more, further preferably 1ppm with
On, particularly preferably 10ppm or more. 
 By the way that nitrogen atom content contained in dicarboxylic acids is set as the above-mentioned upper limit hereinafter, prolonging for polymerisation can be prevented
Increase, coloring, the reduction etc. of partial gelation and stability of slow or polyester polyol carboxyl terminal quantity.On the other hand,
By being set as above-mentioned lower limit or more, to prevent refining step from complicating, it is economically advantageous. 
 Nitrogen atom content is following measured value：The value measured by method well known to elemental microanalysis method etc., or use amino
Acid analysis instrument makes them develop the color simultaneously with organism separation for amino acids condition by the amino acid or ammonia separation in sample with ninhydrin
Detection, the value measured by this method. 
 By using nitrogen atom content above range dicarboxylic acids, to obtained polyurethane, polyester polyol
The reduction of color is advantageous.In addition, also having both the effect of the delayization for the polymerisation for inhibiting polyurethane and polyester polyol. 
 In addition, using the dicarboxylic acids manufactured by fermentation method, sometimes due to including the refined of sour neutralization step
It handles and brings sulphur atom into.Specifically, as the impurity containing sulphur atom, for example, sulfuric acid, sulfate, sulfurous
Acid, organic sulfonic acid and organic sulfonate etc.. 
 In dicarboxylic acids, sulphur atom content is relative to the dicarboxylic acids contained in dicarboxylic acids, and by quality ratio, the upper limit is usual
Preferably 100ppm hereinafter, more preferably 20ppm hereinafter, further preferably 10ppm hereinafter, particularly preferably 5ppm hereinafter,
Most preferably 0.5ppm or less.On the other hand, lower limit is preferably generally 0.001ppm or more, more preferably 0.01ppm or more, into
One step is preferably 0.05ppm or more, particularly preferably 0.1ppm or more. 
 By the way that sulphur atom content contained in dicarboxylic acids is set as the above-mentioned upper limit hereinafter, prolonging for polymerisation can be prevented
Chi Hua, the partial gelation of polyester polyol, the increase of carboxyl terminal quantity and reduction of stability etc..On the other hand, pass through
It is set as above-mentioned lower limit or more, to prevent refining step from complicating, is economically advantageous.Sulphur atom content is to pass through public affairs
The value that the elemental microanalysis method known measures. 
 In the present invention, when the dicarboxylic acids from biomass resource above-mentioned method obtained is used as urethane raw,
It can be by the oxygen concentration control being connected in the tank of the storage of the polymerization system dicarboxylic acids below certain value.Thus, it is possible to anti-
Only as polyurethane impurity --- the coloring caused by the oxidation reaction of nitrogen source. 
 In order to control oxygen concentration and store raw material, tank usually can be used.But in addition to tank, as long as oxygen can be controlled
The device of concentration, is just not particularly limited. 
 The type of hold-up tank is not particularly limited, well known metal tank can be used or glass has been applied to their inner face
The tank and glass system of the linings such as glass, resin or the container etc. of resin.The considerations such as in terms of intensity preferably use made of metal
Tank or the tank that they are implemented with lining processing. 
 As the material of made of metal tank, well known material can be used.Specifically, for example, carbon steel, ferrite
The austenitic stainless steels such as the martensitic stain less steels such as type stainless steel, SUS410, SUS310, SUS304 and SUS316, clad steel,
Cast iron, copper, copper alloy, aluminium, heat-resistant corrosion-resistant alloy of chrome-iron-nickel, haas troy hastelloy and titanium etc.. 
 Relative to hold-up tank total volume, the lower limit of the oxygen concentration in dicarboxylic acids hold-up tank is not particularly limited, however usually
Preferably 0.00001% or more, more preferably 0.01% or more.On the other hand, the upper limit is preferably 16% hereinafter, more preferably
14% hereinafter, further preferably 12% or less. 
 By the way that the oxygen concentration in dicarboxylic acids hold-up tank is set as above-mentioned lower limit or more, prevent equipment or management process from becoming multiple
It is miscellaneous, it is economically advantageous.On the other hand, by being set as the above-mentioned upper limit hereinafter, manufactured polyurethane can be inhibited
Coloring. 
 The lower limit of temperature in dicarboxylic acids hold-up tank is preferably generally -50 DEG C or more, more preferably 0 DEG C or more.Another party
Face, the upper limit be preferably generally 200 DEG C hereinafter, more preferably 100 DEG C hereinafter, further preferably 50 DEG C hereinafter, but from without pipe
The reasons why managing temperature is set out, most preferably in the method for room temperature storage.By the way that temperature is set as -50 DEG C or more, can prevent from storing
It is saved as this increase.In addition, by the way that temperature is set as 200 DEG C hereinafter, the dehydration etc. of carboxylic acid can be prevented from occurring simultaneously. 
 Relative to hold-up tank total volume, the lower limit of the humidity in dicarboxylic acids hold-up tank is not particularly limited, however usually excellent
Be selected as 0.0001% or more, more preferably 0.001% or more, further preferably 0.01% or more, most preferably 0.1% with
On, the upper limit is preferably 80% hereinafter, more preferably 60% hereinafter, further preferably 40% or less. 
 By being 0.0001% or more by the humidity set in dicarboxylic acids hold-up tank, prevents management process from complicating, passing through
It is advantageous in Ji.In addition, by being 80% hereinafter, attachment of the dicarboxylic acids to hold-up tank or piping can be prevented by humidity set
It is blocking with dicarboxylic acids, it is metal in hold-up tank, the corrosion etc. to tank can be prevented. 
 Pressure in dicarboxylic acids hold-up tank is preferably generally atmospheric pressure (normal pressure). 
 Dicarboxylic acids used in the present invention is preferably generally and colours few substance.The yellow of dicarboxylic acids used in the present invention
Degree (YI values) the upper limit be preferably generally 50 hereinafter, more preferably 20 hereinafter, further preferably 10 hereinafter, further preferably
For 6 hereinafter, particularly preferably 4 hereinafter, on the other hand, lower limit is not particularly limited, however is preferably generally -20 or more, more
Preferably -10 or more, further preferably -5 or more, particularly preferably -3 or more, most preferably -1 or more. 
 It is 50 or less dicarboxylic acids by using YI values, the coloring of manufactured polyurethane can be inhibited.On the other hand, pass through
The dicarboxylic acids for the use of YI values being -20 or more does not need many manufactures other than its manufacture does not need the equipment investment of great number yet
It time etc., is economically advantageous.YI values in this specification are the values measured with the method based on JIS-K7105. 
 (2) aliphatic diol 
 As long as the so-called aliphatic diol for the present invention is aliphatic with 2 OH bases and ester ring type compound is
Can, the lower limiting value for being not particularly limited, however can enumerating carbon atom number is preferably that 2 or more, upper limit value is preferably 10 or less, more
Preferably 6 aliphatic diols below. 
 In addition, so-called diol units are the diol units derived from aromatic diol and/or aliphatic diol, can use
Well known compound, but it is preferable to use aliphatic diols. 
 As the concrete example of aliphatic diol, for example, ethylene glycol, 1,3-PD, 2- methyl-1s, 3- the third two
Alcohol, neopentyl glycol, 1,5- pentanediols, 3- methyl-1s, 5- pentanediols, 1,2- butanediols, 1,6-HD, decanediol, 1,9- nonyls
Glycol, 1,4- butanediols and 1,4 cyclohexane dimethanol etc..These can be used alone, and can also be used as two or more mixing
Object uses. 
 Wherein, preferably ethylene glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,3-PD, 2- methyl-1s, 3-propanediol and 3- methyl-1s, 5-
Pentanediol, wherein preferred ethylene glycol and 1,4-butanediol and their mixture, particularly preferably based on 1,4-butanediol
Want the glycol of ingredient or particularly preferred 1,4-butanediol. 
 Main component described herein is indicated to be preferably generally 50 moles of % or more relative to total diol unit, is more preferably
60 moles of % or more, further preferably 70 moles of % or more, particularly preferably 90 moles of % or more.These glycol respectively can be with
It is used alone, two or more uses can also be mixed. 
 As the glycol with branched structure, also particularly preferred 2- methyl-1s, 3-propanediol and 3- methyl-1s, 5- penta 2
Alcohol. 
 If using between hydroxyl methene chain and glycol that carbon atom number is even number, the machinery of obtained polyurethane it is strong
Degree increases, if using carbon atom number for odd number or with the glycol of branched structure, the treatability raising of polyester polyol. 
 As the glycol that can mix of the others in addition to aliphatic diol, for example, aromatic diol, only
To be the aromatic compound with 2 OH bases, be not particularly limited, however the lower limiting value that can enumerate carbon atom number is excellent
It is selected as 6 or more, upper limit value and is preferably generally 15 aromatic diols below. 
 As the concrete example of aromatic diol, for example, hydroquinone, 1,5- dihydroxy naphthlenes, 4,4 '-dihydroxy
Biphenyl, bis- (p-hydroxyphenyl) methane and bis- (p-hydroxyphenyl) -2,2- propane etc..In the present invention, aromatic series two in glycol total amount
The content of alcohol is preferably generally 30 moles of % hereinafter, more preferably 20 moles of % are hereinafter, further preferably 10 moles of % or less. 
 Furthermore it is possible to which two terminal hydroxyl polyethers are used in mixed way with above-mentioned aliphatic diol, can also be used alone.Make
Lower limiting value for two terminal hydroxyl polyethers, carbon atom number is preferably generally 4 or more, more preferably 10 or more, and upper limit value is usually excellent
1000 are selected as hereinafter, more preferably 200 hereinafter, further preferably 100 or less. 
 As the concrete example of two terminal hydroxyl polyethers, for example, diethylene glycol (DEG), triethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, poly- the third two
Alcohol, polytetramethylene glycol, poly- 1,3- propylene glycol and poly- 1,6-HD etc..Alternatively, it is also possible to use polyethylene glycol and poly- third
The copolyether etc. of glycol. 
 The dosage of these two terminal hydroxyls polyethers is such amount：It is calculated as content in the polyester, it is usually excellent
90 weight % are selected as hereinafter, more preferably 50 weight % are hereinafter, further preferably 30 weight % or less. 
 In the present invention, these glycol can use the glycol derived from biomass resource.Specifically, diol compound
Both it can directly be manufactured by carbon sources such as glucose by fermentation method, it can also be by chemically reacting the dicarboxyl that will be obtained by fermentation method
Acid, dicarboxylic anhydride or cyclic ether are converted to diol compound. 
 For example, both can by obtained with fermentation method succinic acid, succinic anhydride, succinate, maleic acid, maleic anhydride,
Maleate, tetrahydrofuran and gamma-butyrolacton etc. manufacture 1,4-butanediol by chemical synthesis, can also be by being obtained with fermentation method
To 1,3- butadiene manufacture 1,4- butanediols.Wherein, hydrogen adds succinic acid by reducing catalyst by obtains Isosorbide-5-Nitrae-fourth two
The method of alcohol is efficient, therefore preferably. 
 As the catalyst for adding hydrogen to succinic acid, for example, Pd, Ru, Re, Rh, Ni, Cu and Co and its chemical combination
Object.More specifically, for example, Pd/Ag/Re, Ru/Ni/Co/ZnO, Cu/Zn oxide, Cu/Zn/Cr oxides,
Ru/Re, Re/C, Ru/Sn, Ru/Pt/Sn, Pt/Re/ alkali, Pt/Re, Pd/Co/Re, Cu/Si, Cu/Cr/Mn, ReO/CuO/ZnO,
CuO/CrO、Pd/Re、Ni/Co、Pd/CuO/CrO 3 , phosphoric acid ruthenium, Ni/Co, Co/Ru/Mn, Cu/Pd/KOH and Cu/Cr/Zn.Its
In, the preferred Ru/Sn or Ru/Pt/Sn from the aspect of catalytic activity. 
 Glycol is manufactured by biomass resource by organic chemistry catalysis reaction well known to combination alternatively, it is also possible to active adoption
The method of compound.For example, using pentose as well known dehydration in the case of biomass resource, can be combined, urged
Change reaction and the glycol such as butanediol are easily manufactured. 
 The glycol converted by biomass resource brings the nitrogen-atoms as impurity into sometimes, the nitrogen-atoms as impurity
It is by from biomass resource, fermentation process and include being generated using the refinement treatment of neutralization step of acid.Such case
Under, it is specific comprising from amino acid, protein, ammonia, urea or zymogenic nitrogen-atoms. 
 In glycol, nitrogen atom content is relative to the glycol contained in the glycol by fermentation method manufacture, with mass ratio
Meter, the upper limit be preferably generally 2000ppm hereinafter, more preferably 1000ppm hereinafter, further preferably 100ppm hereinafter, optimal
It is selected as 50ppm or less.Lower limit is not particularly limited, however preferably generally 0.01ppm or more, more preferably 0.05ppm or more,
Consider from the economy reason of refining step, further preferably 0.1ppm or more, further preferably 1ppm or more, it is special
It You Xuanwei not 10ppm or more. 
 By the way that nitrogen atom content contained in the glycol manufactured by fermentation method is set as the above-mentioned upper limit hereinafter, can prevent
The delay of polymerisation or the increase of the carboxyl terminal quantity of polyester polyol, coloring, partial gelation and stability drop
It is low.On the other hand, it by being set as above-mentioned lower limit or more, prevents refining step from complicating, economically becomes advantageous. 
 In addition, alternatively, nitrogen atom content is relative to above-mentioned raw material contained in dicarboxyl acid starting material and glycol
Summation, by quality ratio, the upper limit is preferably generally 2000ppm hereinafter, more preferably 1000ppm is hereinafter, further preferably
100ppm is hereinafter, most preferably 50ppm or less.Lower limit is not particularly limited, however preferably generally 0.01ppm or more, more excellent
It is selected as 0.05ppm or more, further preferably 0.1ppm or more. 
 Using the glycol manufactured by fermentation method, sometimes due to including the essence of the neutralization step carried out using acid
System handles and brings sulphur atom into.In this case, specifically, as the impurity containing sulphur atom, for example, sulfuric acid,
Sulfurous acid and organic sulfonate etc.. 
 In glycol, sulphur atom content is relative to the glycol contained in glycol, and by quality ratio, the upper limit is preferably generally
100ppm hereinafter, more preferably 20ppm hereinafter, further preferably 10ppm hereinafter, particularly preferably 5ppm hereinafter, most preferably
For 0.5ppm or less.On the other hand, lower limit is not particularly limited, however preferably generally 0.001ppm or more, more preferably
0.01ppm or more, further preferably 0.05ppm or more, particularly preferably 0.1ppm or more. 
 By the way that sulphur atom content contained in glycol is set as the above-mentioned upper limit hereinafter, the delay of polymerisation can be prevented
Or increase, coloring, the reduction etc. of partial gelation and stability of the carboxyl terminal quantity of polyester polyol.On the other hand, lead to
It crosses and is set as above-mentioned lower limit or more, prevent refining step from complicating, economically become advantageous.Sulphur atom content is to pass through
The value that well known elemental microanalysis method measures. 
 In addition, alternatively, sulphur atom content is relative to above-mentioned raw material contained in dicarboxyl acid starting material and glycol
Summation is scaled atom by quality ratio, and the upper limit is preferably generally 100ppm hereinafter, more preferably 20ppm is hereinafter, further
Preferably 10ppm hereinafter, particularly preferably 5ppm hereinafter, most preferably 0.5ppm or less.On the other hand, lower limit does not limit especially
System, however preferably generally 0.001ppm or more, more preferably 0.01ppm or more, further preferably 0.05ppm or more, it is special
It You Xuanwei not 0.1ppm or more. 
 In the present invention, the glycol from biomass resource that above-mentioned method obtains is used as urethane raw
When, in order to inhibit above-mentioned impurity caused by polyurethane coloring, can control be connected to polymerization system storage glycol tank in
Oxygen concentration or temperature. 
 By above-mentioned control, the coloring of impurity itself or the oxidation reaction of the glycol promoted by impurity can be inhibited, for example,
When using 1,4-butanediol, polyurethane caused by the glycol oxidation products such as 2- (4- hydroxybutoxies) tetrahydrofuran can be prevented
Coloring. 
 Raw material is stored in order to control oxygen concentration, can be used common tank.But in addition to tank, as long as can control
The device of oxygen concentration, is not particularly limited.The type of hold-up tank does not limit specifically, for example, well known metal can be used
The tank of system applies the tank of the linings such as glass, resin and the container etc. of glass system or resin in its inner face.From the side of intensity
The considerations such as face can enumerate made of metal tank or implement the tank of lining processing to it. 
 As the material of made of metal tank, well known material can be used, specifically, for example, carbon steel, ferrite
The austenitic stainless steels such as the martensitic stain less steels such as type stainless steel, SUS410, SUS310, SUS304 and SUS316, clad steel,
Cast iron, copper, copper alloy, aluminium, heat-resistant corrosion-resistant alloy of chrome-iron-nickel, haas troy hastelloy and titanium etc.. 
 Relative to hold-up tank total volume, the lower limit of the oxygen concentration in the hold-up tank of glycol is not particularly limited, however usually
Preferably 0.00001% or more, more preferably 0.0001% or more, further preferably 0.001% or more, most preferably
0.01% or more, the upper limit is preferably generally 10% hereinafter, more preferably 5% hereinafter, further preferably 1% hereinafter, most preferably
It is 0.1% or less. 
 It is set as 0.00001% or more by the oxygen concentration in the hold-up tank by glycol, prevents management process from complicating,
It is both economically advantageous.In addition, by the way that oxygen concentration is set as 10% hereinafter, can prevent from being led by the oxidation reaction product of glycol
The coloring of the polymer of cause increases. 
 The lower limit of storage temperature in the hold-up tank of glycol is preferably generally 15 DEG C or more, more preferably 30 DEG C or more, into
One step is preferably 50 DEG C or more, most preferably 100 DEG C or more, the upper limit be preferably 230 DEG C hereinafter, more preferably 200 DEG C hereinafter, into
One step is preferably 180 DEG C hereinafter, most preferably 160 DEG C or less. 
 It is set as 15 DEG C or more by the storage temperature in the hold-up tank by glycol, heating needs when preventing polyester from manufacturing
Long period, polyester manufacture economically become advantageous, while preventing from being cured according to the type difference of glycol.On the other hand,
By by storage temperature be set as 230 DEG C hereinafter, can prevent in order to inhibit glycol gasify by need high voltage bearing bunkerage,
Economically become deterioration advantageous, while that glycol can be prevented. 
 Micro- pressurization of the pressure generally preferably to be generated by drying nitrogen or dry air in the hold-up tank of glycol.Pressure mistake
When low or excessively high, management equipment complicates, and economically becomes unfavorable. 
 In the present invention, in glycol, the content of the oxidation product of the glycol used in the good polymer manufacture of tone
The upper limit be preferably generally 10000ppm hereinafter, more preferably 5000ppm hereinafter, further preferably 3000ppm hereinafter, optimal
It is selected as 2000ppm or less.On the other hand, lower limit is not particularly limited, however preferably generally 1ppm or more, from refining step
From the point of view of the reasons why economy, more preferably 10ppm or more, further preferably 100ppm or more. 
 In the present invention, usual glycol is refined through distillation. 
 As the polyurethane from biomass resource of the present invention, by belong to the above-mentioned dicarboxylic acid units enumerated and two
The reaction of ingredient based on the various compounds of alcohol unit scope manufactures polyester polyol, is manufactured by the polyester polyol
Polyurethane is included in the polyurethane of the present invention. 
 As the manufacture for the polyurethane from biomass resource of the invention, typical polyester polyalcohol, specifically may be used
To illustrate polyester polyol below. 
 As the polyester polyol for having used succinic acid, for example, the polyester polyol of succinic acid and ethylene glycol,
Succinic acid and the polyester polyol of 1,3- propylene glycol, the polyester polyol of succinic acid and 2- methyl-1,3-propanediols, succinic acid with
3- methyl-1s, the polyester polyol of 5- pentanediols, six methylene of the polyester polyol of succinic acid and neopentyl glycol, succinic acid and 1,6-
The polyester polyol of base glycol, the polyester of succinic acid and 1,4- butanediols and the polyester of succinic acid and 1,4 cyclohexane dimethanol are more
First alcohol etc.. 
 As the polyester for having used oxalic acid, for example, the polyester polyol of oxalic acid and ethylene glycol, oxalic acid and 1,3-
The polyester polyol of propylene glycol, the polyester polyol of oxalic acid and 2- methyl-1,3-propanediols, oxalic acid and 3- methyl-1s, 5- penta 2
The polyester polyol of alcohol, the polyester polyol of oxalic acid and neopentyl glycol, the polyester polyol of oxalic acid and 1,6- hexamethylene glycols,
The polyester polyol etc. of oxalic acid and the polyester polyol and oxalic acid and 1,4 cyclohexane dimethanol of 1,4- butanediols. 
 As the polyester polyol for having used adipic acid, for example, the polyester polyol of adipic acid and ethylene glycol,
Adipic acid and the polyester polyol of 1,3- propylene glycol, the polyester polyol of adipic acid and 2- methyl-1,3-propanediols, adipic acid with
3- methyl-1s, the polyester polyol of 5- pentanediols, six methylene of the polyester polyol of adipic acid and neopentyl glycol, adipic acid and 1,6-
The polyester polyol of base glycol, the polyester polyol of adipic acid and 1,4- butanediols and adipic acid and 1,4 cyclohexane dimethanol
Polyester polyol etc.. 
 In addition, the polyester polyol for being combined with above-mentioned dicarboxylic acids is also preferably to combine, can enumerate succinic acid with oneself two
The polyester polyol of acid and polyester polyol, succinic acid and the adipic acid of ethylene glycol and 1,4- butanediols, terephthalic acid (TPA) and oneself
The polyester polyol etc. of diacid and the polyester polyol and terephthalic acid (TPA) and succinic acid and 1,4- butanediols of 1,4- butanediols. 
 The molecular weight of these polyester polyol is converted with hydroxyl value, it is often preferred that 500~5000, more preferably 700~
4000, further preferably 800~3000.By the way that molecular weight is set as 500 or more, can be obtained when polyurethane resin is made
The physical property met the requirements.In addition, by the way that molecular weight is set as 5000 hereinafter, the viscosity of polyester polyol will not be excessively high, processing
Property is good. 
 In addition, the molecular weight distribution of these polyester polyol obtained by GPC (gel permeation chromatography) measurement is usual
Preferably 1.2~4.0, more preferably 1.5~3.5, further preferably 1.8~3.0.By the way that molecular weight distribution is set as
1.2 or more, the economy of manufacture improves.In addition, by by molecular weight distribution be set as 4.0 hereinafter, polyurethane resin physical property
It improves. 
 In addition, these polyester polyol may be used singly or in combination of two or more.Furthermore, it is possible to poly-
Ethoxylated polyhydric alcohol, polycarbonate glycol are used in mixed way, and polyol can also be made by modification to use. 
 In turn, it is liquid when these polyester polyol carry out urethane reaction under solvent-free conditions, at preferably 40 DEG C
State, further preferred 40 DEG C of viscosity are 15000mPas or less. 
 (3) 25 DEG C pKa value be 3.7 organic acids below 
 It is 3.7 organic acids below as 25 DEG C of pKa values, for example,《Chemical Bian list (Ji Foundation Knitting)》p1054
~1058, ball is kind publishes (1966) or CRC Handbook of chemistry and Physics (CRC chemically and physically hands
Volume), the 7th edition, p8-43~8-56, the organic acid described in CRC publishing houses (1995). 
 In these, the lower limiting value of pKa value is preferably 2.0 or more, more preferably 2.5 or more, particularly preferably 3.1 or more,
Upper limit value is preferably 3.5 or less.In addition, there are the compounds of 2 or more display pKa values in organic acid, however in the present invention,
The pKa value of compound at this time is minimum. 
 It is 3.7 organic acids below as the pKa value at 25 DEG C, is not particularly limited, however wherein a preferably molecule has
There are the organic acid of 3 or more active hydrogen-baseds, more preferable malic acid, citric acid and tartaric acid and its mixture, most preferably malic acid
And its mixture, particularly preferred malic acid. 
 Especially using succinic acid as raw material, according to the manufacturing method of succinic acid, sometimes in raw material succinic acid
In contain malic acid.In this case, can also select the succinic acid containing malic acid directly or according to need add malic acid after
It is combined with diol component, carries out polyester polyol manufacture. 
 One molecule has influence of the organic acid due to the hydroxyl existing for such as α of carbonyl of 3 or more active hydrogen-baseds,
Compared with active hydrogen-based is 2 organic acids below in a molecule, the tendency with pKa value reduction. 
 For example, being illustrated in case of the malic acid for being 3.4 in 25 DEG C of pKa value, malic acid is in succinic acid
Content when being more than 1000ppm, the branched structure in polyester polyol increases, so being easy to cause to coagulate when urethane reaction
Gelatinization, unexpected molecular weight can not obtain the linear polyurethane of physical properties excellent while the control of reaction becomes difficult.
In addition, on the contrary, when being entirely free of malic acid, according to purposes, mechanical strength has the tendency that reduction. 
 Based on such reason, in dicarboxylic acids 25 DEG C pKa value be 3.7 organic acids below content relative to two
Carboxylic acid, lower limiting value are typically larger than 0ppm, preferably 0.001ppm or more, further preferably 0.01ppm or more, more preferably
0.05ppm or more, particularly preferably 0.07ppm or more, most preferably 0.1ppm or more.In addition, upper limit value is usually 1000ppm
Hereinafter, preferably 800ppm or less, more preferably 600ppm or less. 
 In this specification 25 DEG C pKa value be 3.7 organic acids below analysis (detection) method be divided into two kinds of feelings
Condition is analyzed based on this. 
 Organic acid is the situation of 100ppm or more：It is analyzed using high performance liquid chromatography.Specifically, column use with
The same columns of ULTRON PS-80H 8.0mm I.D. × 30cm of letter and Chemical Co., Ltd's manufacture, 60 DEG C are maintained at by column temperature,
Using 0.1%- high chloro acid solutions as eluent with the flow rate of 1.0mL/min, each ingredient is fractionated.According to what is analyzed
The sensitivity of ingredient is detected using RI detectors and UV detectors. 
 Organic acid is less than the case where 100ppm：It is analyzed using LC-MS.Specifically, column use and Mitsubishi Chemical's system
MCI GEL CK08EH (8.0mm × 300mmL.) the same column made, is maintained at 60 DEG C, by 0.02%- aqueous formic acids by column temperature
As eluent with the flow rate of 1.0mL/min, classification ingredient imports MS detectors successively.It imported into the classification of MS detectors
Ingredient ESI-SIM (anion), the quasi-molecular ion signal detection of the ingredient as analysis object.Organic acid peak is with S/N=3
It is limited as detection. 
 If the organic acid content in above-mentioned dicarboxylic acids is more than 1000ppm, the polyester polyols as urethane raw
The viscosity of alcohol is got higher, and processing operation is deteriorated, and the gelation etc. when polyurethane-reinforcement reacts causes molecular weight extremely high or molecular weight
Abnormal distribution is big, has the tendency for the polyurethane for forming the mechanical properties such as flexibility and elongation.In addition, if in dicarboxylic acids
Organic acid content be more than 1000ppm, then its content be easy to fluctuate, not only gained polyurethane physical property it is unstable, but also
There is also be difficult to stablize the tendency of operation in manufacturing process. 
 By make organic acid in dicarboxylic acids content be more than 0ppm, can prevent the refining step of dicarboxylic acids from complicating,
It is both economically advantageous, while the mechanical strength of manufactured polyurethane can be improved. 
 (4) polyisocyanate compound 
 As polyisocyanate compound used in the present invention, for example, 2,4- or 2,6- toluene diisocyanate
Acid esters, benzene dimethylene diisocyanate, 4,4 '-'-diphenylmethane diisocyanates (MDI), paraphenylene diisocyanate, 1,5- naphthalenes
The aromatic diisocyanates such as diisocyanate, tolidine diisocyanate；α, α, α ', α '-tetramethylxylenes two
Isocyanates etc. has the aliphatic diisocyanate of aromatic rings；Methylene diisocyanate, relies ammonia at trimethylene diisocyanate
Sour diisocyanate, 2,2,4- or 2,4,4- trimethyl hexamethylene diisocyanates and 1,6- hexamethylene diisocyanates etc.
Aliphatic diisocyanate；1,4- cyclohexane diisocyanates, methylcyclohexane diisocyanate (hydrogenation TDI), 1- isocyanic acids
Ester -3- isocyanatomethyl -3,5,5- trimethyl-cyclohexanes (IPDI), 4,4 '-dicyclohexyl methyl hydride diisocyanates and different Asia
Alicyclic diisocyanates such as propyl dicyclohexyl -4,4 '-diisocyanate etc..These can be used alone, can also be two kinds
It shares above. 
 In the present invention, it is preferred to the extra high aromatic polyisocyanate of reactivity, particularly preferred toluene di-isocyanate(TDI)
(TDI) and '-diphenylmethane diisocyanate (hereinafter sometimes referred to MDI).Alternatively, it is also possible to a part of NCO for polyisocyanates
Base is modified as the objects such as carbamate, urea, biuret, allophanate, carbodiimide, oxazolidones, amide and acid imide
Matter, syncytiam also includes the substance containing isomers than that described above in addition. 
 Relative to the hydroxyl of polyester polyol and the hydroxyl of chain extender and 1 equivalent of amino, these polyisocyanate compounds
Dosage be preferably generally the equivalent of 0.1 equivalent~10, the equivalent of more preferably 0.8 equivalent~1.5, further preferably 0.9 equivalent
~1.05 equivalents. 
 By the way that the dosage of polyisocyanates is set as 10 equivalents hereinafter, can prevent unreacted isocyanate group from causing
Undesirable reaction is easily obtained desired physical property.In addition, by by the dosage of polyisocyanates be set as 0.1 equivalent with
On, the molecular weight of polyurethane and polyurethane-urea becomes sufficiently large, can show desired performance. 
 The chain extender with more than two reactive hydrogens can be used in the present invention as needed.As chain extender, main point
For the compound with 2 or more hydroxyls and the compound with 2 or more amino.Wherein, preferably short in polyurethane applications
Chain polyalcohol is specially the compound with 2 or more hydroxyls, in polyurethane-urea preferred polyhydric amine compounds on the way, specifically
For the compound with 2 or more amino. 
 In addition, it is that 500 compounds below are used as expansion that the polyurethane resin of the present invention, which shares molecular weight (number-average molecular weight),
When chain agent, the caoutchouc elasticity of polyurethane elastomer improves, so being preferred in physical property. 
 As the compound with 2 or more hydroxyls, for example, ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol (DEG), triethylene glycol, propylene glycol,
Dipropylene glycol, tripropylene glycol, 1,3- propylene glycol, 1,2- butanediols, 1,3 butylene glycol, 1,4- butanediols, 2,3- butanediols,
3- methyl-1s, 5- pentanediols, neopentyl glycol, 2- methyl-1,3-propanediols, 2- methyl-2-propyl -1,3- propylene glycol, 2- butyl -
2- ethyl -1,3- propylene glycol, 1,5- pentanediols, 1,6-HD, 2- methyl -2,4-PD, 2,2,4- trimethyls -1,3- penta
Glycol, 2- ethyl -1,3- hexylene glycols, 2,5- dimethyl -2,5-HD, 2- butyl -2- hexyl -1,3- propylene glycol, 1,8- are pungent
Glycol, 2- methyl-1s, the alicyclic diols such as the aliphatic diols such as 8- ethohexadiols and 1,9- nonanediols and hydroxymethyl-cyclohexane, with
And benzene methylene glycol and bis- (hydroxyl-oxethyl) benzene etc. have the glycol etc. of aromatic rings. 
 As the compound with 2 or more amino, for example, 2,4- or 2,6- toluenediamine, benzene dimethylamine and
The aromatic diamines such as 4,4 '-diphenylmethane diamines, ethylenediamine, 1,2- propane diamine, 1,6- hexane diamines, 2,2- dimethyl -1,3-
Propanediamine, 2- methyl-1s, 5- pentane diamines, 1,3-diaminopentane, 2,2,4- or 2,4,4- trimethylhexane diamines, 2- fourths
The aliphatic diamines such as base -2- ethyl -1,5- pentane diamines, 1,8- octanediamines, 1,9- nonane diamines and 1,10- decanediammes,
1- amino -3- aminomethyl -3,5,5- trimethyl-cyclohexanes (IPDA), 4,4 '-dicyclohexyl methyl hydride diamines (hydrogenation MDA), different Asia
Alicyclic diamines such as propylcyclohexyl -4,4 '-diamines, 1,4- cyclohexanediamine and the bis- aminomethyl cyclohexanes of 1,3- etc.. 
 Ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol (DEG), 1,3- propylene glycol, 1,4- butanediols, 3- methyl-1s, 5- penta are wherein preferably in the present invention
Glycol, neopentyl glycol, 2- methyl-1,3-propanediols, isophorone diamine, 1,6- hexamethylene diamines, ethylenediamine, propane diamine, 1,3- bis-
Aminopentane and 2- methyl-1s, 5- pentane diamines. 
 For these chain extenders, preferably there is the chain extender of hydroxyl when using aromatic polyisocyanate, on the other hand,
Preferably there is the chain extender of amino when using aliphatic polyisocyante.In addition, these chain extenders can be used alone, also may be used
It is shared with two or more.The dosage of these chain extenders is not particularly limited, however relative to 1 equivalent of polyester polyol, it is usually excellent
0.1 equivalent is selected as to 10 equivalents. 
 By the way that the dosage of chain extender is set as 10 equivalents hereinafter, obtained polyurethane and polyurethane-urea tree can be prevented
Fat is really up to the mark, can get desired characteristic, is easy to molten and is easily worked in a solvent.In addition, by be set as 0.1 equivalent with
On, obtained polyurethane and polyurethane urea resin will not be excessively soft, can get sufficient intensity, elastic recovery properties or elasticity and protect
Performance is held, hot properties can be promoted. 
 In addition, based on control polyurethane resin molecular weight purpose, as needed can use have 1 activity hydrogen-based
Chain terminating agent.As these chain terminating agents, the aliphatic unitary such as ethyl alcohol, propyl alcohol, butanol and the hexanol with hydroxyl can be illustrated
The aliphatic monoamines such as alcohol and diethylamine, dibutyl amine, monoethanolamine and diethanol amine with amino.These compounds can be with
It is used alone, two or more can also share. 
 In addition, based on improve polyurethane resin heat resistance or intensity purpose, as needed can use have 3 with
The crosslinking agent of upper activity hydrogen-based.These crosslinking agents can use trimethylolpropane or glycerine and its isocyanate-modified object, gather
'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate etc.. 
 (5) other additives 
 In turn, other additives can also be added as needed than that described above in the polyurethane resin of the present invention.
As these additives, for example, CYANOX1790 [manufacture of CYANAMID Co., Ltd.], IRGANOX245,
IRGANOX1010 [more than, Ciba Co., Ltd. manufacture], Sumilizer GA-80 (Sumitomo Chemical Co's manufacture)
With the antioxidants such as 2,6- dibutyl -4- methylphenols (BHT), TINUVIN622LD, TINUVIN765 [above, Ciba
Co., Ltd. manufactures], SANOL LS-2626, the light stabilizers such as LS-765 [manufacture above for Sankyo Co., Ltd],
Ultra-violet absorbers, the dimethyl siloxane such as TINUVIN328 and TINUVIN234 (being manufactured above for Ciba Co., Ltd.)
It is the silicon compounds such as polyoxyalkylene copolymers, red phosphorus, organic phosphorus compound, phosphorous and halogen organic compound, brominated or chlorine
The pigment such as the additions such as organic compound, ammonium polyphosphate, aluminium hydroxide, antimony oxide and reactive flame retardant, titanium dioxide, dyestuff and
The anti-hydrolysis agents such as the colorants such as carbon black, carbodiimide compound, staple glass fibre, carbon fiber, aluminium oxide, talcum, graphite, trimerization
The fillers such as cyanamide and carclazyte, lubricant, finish, surfactant, other inorganic bulking agents and organic solvent etc..In addition,
Water can also be added and replace the foaming agents such as freon.With polyurethane foam it is useful especially for sole. 
 <The manufacturing method of polyester polyol from biomass resource> 
 Include at least aliphatic diol unit, dicarboxylic acid units and the pKa value at 25 DEG C of the present invention is 3.7 below to have
As long as machine acid unit can manufacture dicarboxylic acids as the manufacturing method of the polyester polyol from biomass resource of structural unit
Content including at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, organic acid unit is rubbed relative to dicarboxylic acid units more than 0
That % and the polyester polyol for being less than or equal to 0.09 mole of %, are just not particularly limited. 
 An example of the manufacturing method of following polyester polyol from biomass resource for providing the present invention. 
 Especially as dicarboxylic acids, it can also be used in mixed way and be not from the dicarboxylic acid component from biomass resource
The dicarboxylic acid component of biomass resource, in the case where being used in mixed way, from price and performance aspect, preferably adipic acid and
Decanedioic acid etc.. 
 In addition, as diol units, from price and performance aspect, preferably by ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol (DEG) and Isosorbide-5-Nitrae-fourth
Glycol etc. is used individually or as mixture, however is not limited to this. 
 In the present invention, the dicarboxylic acids from biomass resource and/or glycol above-mentioned method obtained is as polyester
Polynary alcoholization reaction raw materials are in use, can be that particular value is below by the oxygen concentration control in polyester polyol manufacture reaction
Polyester polyol is manufactured in reactive tank. 
 Thus, it is possible to the oxidation reaction of impurity nitrogen compound is inhibited to make the coloring of polyester polyol or for example using 1,
The glycol oxidations such as 2- (4- hydroxybutoxies) tetrahydrofuran that 1,4- butanediols oxidation reaction generates when 4- butanediols are as glycol
Reaction product makes polyester polyol colour, thus can manufacture the good polyester polyol of tone. 
 Above-mentioned manufacture reaction is defined as period：Raw material is put into esterification slot, from the time point started to warm up
After playing the polymer for manufacturing desired viscosity under normal pressure or decompression in reactive tank, reactive tank is restored to normal pressure from decompression
During until above. 
 Relative to reactive tank total volume, lower limit is not particularly limited the oxygen concentration in reactive tank in manufacture reaction, however
Preferably generally 1.0 × 10 -9 % or more, more preferably 1.0 × 10 -7 % or more, the upper limit are preferably generally 10% hereinafter, more excellent
1% is selected as hereinafter, further preferably 0.1% hereinafter, most preferably 0.01% or less.By oxygen concentration is set as 1.0 ×
10 -9 % or more can prevent management process from complicating.In addition, by the way that oxygen concentration is set as 10% hereinafter, polyester can be prevented
The coloring of polyalcohol becomes apparent. 
 In the case where the dicarboxylic acids from biomass resource is supplied in reactive tank, as long as dicarboxylic acids is solid,
It can be supplied directly in reactive tank with the original state of the solid supplied.It is important that being operated before esterification starts
So that the oxygen concentration in supply or after supply in reactive tank becomes desired concentration.In the adjustment of oxygen concentration, due to sometimes
Raw material dicarboxylic acids is splashed in gas phase and becomes difficult to operate, so the grain size (average grain diameter) of raw material dicarboxylic acids when supply is excellent
Choosing uses 0.01mm~100mm, more preferably 0.05mm~10mm. 
 In addition, when the dicarboxylic acids from biomass resource to be supplied to as polyester polyols raw polyol in reactive tank,
Dicarboxylic acids can be supplied with molten condition, or setting and raw polyol or the dissolving tank of appropriate solvent before reactive tank,
It is supplied in conversion zone as material solution or suspension. 
 In addition, using the dicarboxylic acids from biomass resource as polyester polyols raw polyol in use, can also be to taking
Oxygen concentration and humidity when dicarboxylic acids to be delivered to the method for reactor from hold-up tank are adjusted.Thus, it is possible to prevent impurity
Conveying tube inner corrosion caused by sulphur ingredient, can further suppress the coloring caused by the oxidation reaction of nitrogen source, can manufacture tone
Good polyester polyol. 
 As the type of delivery pipe, specifically, for example, common well known made of metal delivery pipe or at it
Inner face apply the delivery pipe of the linings such as glass and resin and the container etc. of glass system or resin.In terms of intensity
Deng consider, preferably made of metal delivery pipe or to they implement lining processing delivery pipe. 
 As the material of made of metal tank, well known material can be used, specifically, for example, carbon steel, ferrite
The austenitic stainless steels such as the martensitic stain less steels such as type stainless steel, SUS410, SUS310, SUS304 and SUS316, clad steel,
Cast iron, copper, copper alloy, aluminium, heat-resistant corrosion-resistant alloy of chrome-iron-nickel, haas troy hastelloy and titanium etc.. 
 Relative to delivery pipe total volume, lower limit is not particularly limited oxygen concentration in delivery pipe, however is preferably generally
0.00001% or more, more preferably 0.01% or more.On the other hand, the upper limit is preferably generally 16% hereinafter, more preferably 14%
Hereinafter, further preferably 12% or less.By the way that oxygen concentration is set as 0.00001% or more, equipment investment and management are prevented
Process complicates, and is economically advantageous.On the other hand, by the way that oxygen concentration is set as 16% hereinafter, can inhibit made
The coloring for the polyester polyol made. 
 The lower limit of humidity in delivery pipe is not particularly limited, however preferably generally 0.0001% or more, more preferably
0.001% or more, further preferably 0.01% or more, most preferably 0.1% or more, the upper limit are preferably 80% hereinafter, more excellent
60% is selected as hereinafter, further preferably 40% or less. 
 By being 0.0001% or more by the humidity set in delivery pipe, prevents management process from complicating, be economically
It is advantageous.In addition, by being 80% hereinafter, the corrosion to hold-up tank or piping can be prevented by humidity set.Moreover, pass through by
Humidity set in delivery pipe be 80% hereinafter, the attachment, dicarboxylic acids that can prevent dicarboxylic acids on hold-up tank or piping knot
The problems such as block, so as to inhibit the piping caused by these attachment phenomenons to corrode. 
 The lower limit of temperature in delivery pipe is preferably generally -50 DEG C or more, more preferably 0 DEG C or more.On the other hand, the upper limit
Preferably generally 200 DEG C hereinafter, more preferably 100 DEG C hereinafter, further preferably 50 DEG C or less.By temperature is set as-
50 DEG C or more, it can inhibit to store cost.In addition, by the way that temperature is set as 200 DEG C hereinafter, can inhibit that dicarboxyl occurs simultaneously
The dehydration etc. of acid. 
 Pressure in delivery pipe is preferably generally 0.1kPa to 1Mpa, from the viewpoint of operability, more preferably
0.05MPa to 0.3MPa. 
 Relative to the molal quantity of dicarboxylic acids or derivatives thereof, the dosage for manufacturing the glycol used when polyester polyol is substantial
With form desirable molecular weight polyester polyol needed for glycol amount be equimolar, but it is general, due to ester condensationization and/
Or glycol can distillate in ester exchange reaction, it is advantageous to use the amount of excessive 0.1~20 mole of %. 
 In addition, ester condensation and/or ester exchange reaction preferably carry out in the presence of esterification catalyst.Esterification catalyst
Addition period is not particularly limited, and can be added when raw material feeds intake, and can also go to a certain extent after water removal or decompression is opened
It is added when the beginning. 
 When using dicarboxylic acids as raw material, since raw material dicarboxylic acids shows autocatalysis, so general way is, instead
Answering initial stage not add catalyst can react, according to the formation speed for generating water, addition and original when speed becomes inadequate
Expect the different esterification catalyst of ingredient.It is and no added at this point for the period for adding the esterification catalyst different from material composition
The esterification speed of initial reaction stage compare, the esterification speed to go on preferably becomes 1/3 or less, more preferable 1/5
Easily controllable reaction when following, so being preferred. 
 As esterification catalyst, for example, including the 1st row the~the 14 row gold in periodic table in addition to hydrogen and carbon
Belong to the compound of element.Specifically, for example, comprising selected from by titanium, zirconium, tin, antimony, cerium, germanium, zinc, cobalt, manganese, iron,
Carboxylate, alkoxide, organic sulfonate or the β-two of the above metal of at least one of the group of aluminium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, sodium and potassium composition
The inorganic compounds such as the oxide and halide of the compound containing organic group such as ketonic acid salt and above-mentioned metal and they
Mixture. 
 Due to above-mentioned reason, it is former that above-mentioned catalyst component is included in the polyester polyol derived from biomass resource sometimes
In material.At this point it is possible to not carry out the refined of raw material especially, used directly as the raw material comprising metal. 
 In these, the metallic compound and their mixture of titanium, zirconium, germanium, zinc, aluminium, magnesium and calcium are preferably comprised,
In, particularly preferred titanium compound, zirconium compounds and germanium compound.If in addition, catalyst in ester condensation reaction for melting or
The state of dissolving, then reaction speed get higher, for liquid or be dissolved in desired polyester when being based on the reason, preferably esterification
Compound in polyalcohol. 
 As titanium compound, such as preferred tetralkyl titanate, four n-propyl of metatitanic acid, four isopropyl of metatitanic acid can be specifically enumerated
Ester, tetra-n-butyl titanate, four tert-butyl ester of metatitanic acid, tetraphenyl titanate, four cyclohexyl of metatitanic acid, four benzyl ester of metatitanic acid and their mixed with titanium
Acid esters. 
 Moreover, as preferred titanium compound, such as acetylacetone,2,4-pentanedione oxygen titanium, four acetyl acetone titaniums, (two can also be enumerated
Isopropoxy) acetyl acetone titanium, that two (2 hydroxy propanoic acid) two hydroxide diammonium closes titanium, bis- (ethyl acetoacetate) metatitanic acids two is different
Propyl ester, (triethanolamine acid group) isopropyl titanate, multi-hydroxy stearic acid titanium, lactic acid titanium, triethanolamine titanium and butyl titanate dimerization
Object etc.. 
 In turn, as preferred titanium compound, such as the composite oxides of titanium dioxide or titaniferous and silicon can also be enumerated
(for example, titania/silica composite oxides).In these, preferably four n-propyl of metatitanic acid, tetraisopropyl titanate and metatitanic acid
Four N-butyls, acetylacetone,2,4-pentanedione oxygen titanium, four acetyl acetone titaniums, two (2 hydroxy propanoic acid) two hydroxide diammonium conjunction titanium, polyhydroxy are hard
Resin acid titanium, lactic acid titanium, butyltitanate dimer, titanium dioxide and titania/silica composite oxides, more preferable metatitanic acid
Four N-butyls, acetylacetone,2,4-pentanedione oxygen titanium, four acetyl acetone titaniums, multi-hydroxy stearic acid titanium, lactic acid titanium, butyltitanate dimer and two
Titanium oxide/silica composite oxide, particularly preferred tetra-n-butyl titanate, multi-hydroxy stearic acid titanium, acetylacetone,2,4-pentanedione oxygen titanium, four
Acetyl acetone titanium and titania/silica composite oxides. 
 As zirconium compounds, specifically, it is stearic for example to illustrate tetraacethyl zirconium, hydroxide zirconium acetate, three (butoxy)
Sour zirconium, oxalic acid oxygen zirconium, oxalic acid zirconium, zirconyl oxalate, oxalic acid zirconium potassium, multi-hydroxy stearic acid zirconium, ethyl alcohol zirconium, four zirconium-n-propylates, four
Zirconium iso-propoxide, four zirconium-n-butylates, four zirconium tert-butoxides and three butoxy acetylacetone,2,4-pentanedione zirconiums and their mixture. 
 In turn, as zirconium compounds, such as zirconium oxide or such as composite oxides containing zirconium and silicon are preferably used.
In these, preferably oxalic acid oxygen zirconium, three (butoxy) zirconium stearates, tetraacethyl zirconium, hydroxide zirconium acetate, oxalic acid zirconium ammonium, oxalic acid
Zirconium potassium, multi-hydroxy stearic acid zirconium, four zirconium-n-propylates, four zirconium iso-propoxides, four zirconium-n-butylates and four zirconium tert-butoxides, more preferable oxalic acid
Oxygen zirconium, tetraacethyl zirconium, hydroxide zirconium acetate, three (butoxy) zirconium stearates, oxalic acid zirconium ammonium, four zirconium-n-propylates and four n-butanols
Zirconium, particularly preferred three (butoxy) zirconium stearate. 
 As germanium compound, specifically, for example, the inorganic germanium compound such as germanium oxide and germanium chloride, Yi Jisi
The organic germanium compounds such as alkoxy germanium.From price and the degree etc. being easy to get, preferably germanium oxide, tetraethoxy germanium
With four butoxy germanium etc., particularly preferred germanium oxide. 
 Catalyst amount when using metallic compound as these esterification catalysts, with the polyester polyols relative to generation
The metal gauge of alcohol, lower limiting value are preferably generally 1ppm or more, more preferably 3ppm or more, and upper limit value is preferably generally
30000ppm hereinafter, more preferably 1000ppm hereinafter, further preferably 250ppm hereinafter, particularly preferably 130ppm or less.
By the way that the catalytic amount used is set as 30000ppm hereinafter, being not only economically advantageous, but also polyester can be improved
The thermal stability of polyalcohol.In addition, by the way that catalytic amount is set as 1ppm or more, the polymerization that can improve polyester polyol is lived
Property. 
 The lower limit of the reaction temperature of the ester condensation reaction and/or ester exchange reaction of dicarboxylic acid component and diol component is usually excellent
150 DEG C or more, more preferably 180 DEG C or more are selected as, the upper limit is preferably generally 260 DEG C hereinafter, more preferably 250 DEG C or less.Instead
It is usually under the inert gas atmospheres such as nitrogen and argon to answer atmosphere.Reaction pressure is preferably generally normal pressure~10Torr, more preferably often
Pressure~100Torr. 
 The lower limit in reaction time is preferably generally 10 minutes or more, and the upper limit is preferably generally 10 hours hereinafter, more preferably 5
Hour or less. 
 In addition, esterification is implemented under normal or reduced pressure, however mainly according to the increase and decrease of reaction speed and raw material two
The boiling point of alcohol, when thering is azeotropic solvent to coexist its boiling point height, using the period of decompression, vacuum degree.It is preferred steady in order to carry out
Fixed operation, is preferably reacted when esterification starts in normal pressure, the esterification speed developed down becomes initial stage speed
1/2 or less after start to depressurize in preferred period.It depressurizes when starting before and after catalyst adds period. 
 Reaction unit in the present invention as manufacture polyester can use well known vertical or Horizontal stirring groove profile to react
Device.For example, the side of the stirring tank reactor using the decompression exhaust pipe for having connection vacuum pump and reactor can be enumerated
Method.Additionally, it is preferred that such method, that is, combine condenser between connection vacuum pump and the decompression exhaust pipe of reactor, use
The condenser recycles the volatile ingredient or unreacting material generated in polycondensation reaction. 
 In industrial making method, mainly judges reaction by distillating the discharge of ingredient, determine the terminal of reaction, and appropriate
Discharge depends on the boiling point (degree easily flowed out) of raw polyol ingredient.Generally, reaction is determined with the acid value in reaction
Terminal.In addition, according to circumstances, increase (is condensed or adds for polyester polyol to be adjusted to the processing of desirable molecular weight again
Add the depolymerization after raw material glycol).Based on the acid value, reaction controlling is determined.In addition, generally corresponding to discharge, reaction end is judged,
The acid value of the product is measured after reaction terminating, if acid value outside target criteria, further implements esterification again, adjustment
For desired acid value. 
 The acid value of terminal as above-mentioned reaction is preferably 1.0 hereinafter, more preferably 0.5 hereinafter, further preferably 0.2
Hereinafter, it is preferred that with such acid value as terminal.In addition, preferred water content when above-mentioned reaction terminating is preferably 200ppm
Hereinafter, more preferably 100ppm hereinafter, further preferably 50ppm hereinafter, in order to be adjusted to acid value appropriate when terminal and
Water content can also according to circumstances add azeotrope with water and form 2 phases, the azeotropic solvent without reactive hydrogen, be reacted.Only
Will the azeotropic solvent there is the performance, be just not particularly limited, however the generally low-cost aromatic series such as benzene and toluene
Close object. 
 In addition, after polyester polyol manufacture reaction, it both can be directly for preservation or urethane reaction, it can also
After the processing into enforcement addition catalyst inactivation, for preservation or urethane reaction.To making addition catalyst inactivation
Method be not particularly limited, however it is preferable to use the catalyst inactivations additive such as tris phosphite, water process etc. is possible to brokenly
The method of bad polyester polyol structure is all unfavorable. 
 <Polyester polyol from biomass resource> 
 The polyester polyol from biomass resource of the present invention is including at least aliphatic diol unit, dicarboxylic acids list
Member in 25 DEG C of pKa values is polyester polyol of the 3.7 organic acid units below as structural unit, and the dicarboxylic acids includes
The content of at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, organic acid unit is more than 0 relative to the dicarboxylic acid units
Mole % and it is less than or equal to 0.09 mole of %. 
 The lower limit of the content of above-mentioned organic acid unit is not particularly limited, however relative to the dicarboxylic acid units, preferably
It is 9 × 10 -8 Mole % or more, more preferably 9 × 10 -7 Mole % or more, further preferably 4.5 × 10 -6 Mole % or more,
Particularly preferably 6.3 × 10 -6 Mole % or more, most preferably 9 × 10 -6 Mole % or more, the upper limit is preferably 9 × 10 -2 Mole %
Hereinafter, more preferably 7.2 × 10 -2 Mole % is hereinafter, further preferably 5.4 × 10 -2 Mole % or less. 
 If the content of above-mentioned organic acid unit is more than 0.09 mole of %, the polyester polyol as urethane raw
Viscosity is got higher, and the gelation etc. when processing operation is deteriorated or polyurethane-reinforcement reacts causes molecular weight to increase extremely or molecular weight
Abnormal distribution is big, has the tendency for the polyurethane for forming the mechanical properties such as flexibility and elongation.In addition, if above-mentioned organic
The content of acid unit is more than 0.09 mole of %, then content is susceptible to fluctuation, and not only the physical property of gained polyurethane is unstable, but also
There is also be difficult to stablize the tendency of operation in manufacturing process. 
 In addition, the content by above-mentioned organic acid unit is more than 0 mole of %, prevent the refining step of dicarboxylic acids from complicating,
It is economically advantageous, the mechanical strength of manufactured polyurethane can be improved. 
 The polyester polyol of the present invention is solid or liquid (liquid) in room temperature, is not particularly limited, however is handled
Upper preferred room temperature is liquid. 
 The molecular weight of these polyester polyol is converted with hydroxyl value, it is often preferred that 500~5000, more preferably 700~
4000, further preferably 800~3000.By the way that molecular weight is set as 500 or more, foot can get when polyurethane resin is made
Enough physical property.In addition, by the way that molecular weight is set as 5000 hereinafter, the viscosity of polyester polyol will not be excessively high, treatability improves. 
 In addition, the molecular weight distribution of these polyester polyol obtained by GPC (gel permeation chromatography) measurement is usual
Preferably 1.2~4.0, more preferably 1.5~3.5, further preferably 1.8~3.0.By the way that molecular weight distribution is set as
1.2 or more, the economy of manufacture improves, in addition, by the way that molecular weight is set as 4.0 hereinafter, polyurethane resin can be improved
Physical property. 
 Nitrogen atom content contained in addition to the functional group of Covalent bonding together is relative to this in the polyester polyol of the present invention
Polyester polyol quality, preferably 1000ppm or less.Nitrogen contained in addition to the functional group of Covalent bonding together in polyester polyol
Atom content be preferably 500ppm hereinafter, more preferably 100ppm hereinafter, further preferably 50ppm hereinafter, especially preferably
40ppm is hereinafter, further preferably 30ppm is hereinafter, most preferably 20ppm or less. 
 Nitrogen atom content contained in addition to the functional group of Covalent bonding together is mainly derived from raw material in polyester polyol
Nitrogen-atoms, and nitrogen atom content contained in addition to the functional group of Covalent bonding together in polyester polyol is if it is 20ppm
Hereinafter, then coloring tails off. 
 The polyester polyol manufactured in the present invention is preferably generally and colours few polyester polyol.The polyester polyols of the present invention
Value (the APHA values of alcohol indicated with black once color value：Based on JIS-K0101) the upper limit be preferably generally 50 hereinafter, more preferably 40
Hereinafter, further preferably 30 hereinafter, particularly preferably 25 hereinafter, on the other hand, lower limit is not particularly limited, however usually
Preferably 1 or more, more preferably 2 or more, further preferably 5 or more. 
 APHA values, which are 50 polyester polyol below, has usage (such as using polyester polyol as the polyurethane of raw material
Film and piece etc.) unrestricted advantage.On the other hand, the polyester polyol that APHA values are 1 or more, manufactures polyester polyol
Manufacturing process is uncomplicated, need not extremely great number equipment investment, be economically advantageous. 
 <The manufacturing method of polyurethane from biomass resource> 
 The manufacturing method of the polyurethane from biomass resource of the present invention, which includes at least, makes aliphatic diol and dicarboxylic acids
The process for reacting to manufacture the process of polyester polyol, the polyester polyol is made to react with polyisocyanate compound, feature
Be, the dicarboxylic acids as raw material includes at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, in the dicarboxylic acids
As long as the content that 25 DEG C of pKa value is 3.7 organic acids below is more than 0ppm and is 1000ppm hereinafter, can at least make conduct
The dicarboxylic acids that raw material uses is in the range, manufactures the polyurethane from biomass resource, is just not particularly limited. 
 In the manufacturing method of the polyurethane from biomass resource of the present invention, the raw material using specified conditions is needed, into
And various manufacturing conditions are combined during by before manufacturing polyurethane, to manufacture from biomass resource for the first time
Polyurethane, which is characterized in that the polyurethane include at least aliphatic diol unit, dicarboxylic acid units, polyisocyanates list
Member and be that be used as structural unit, the dicarboxylic acids include at least one by giving birth to 3.7 organic acid units below in 25 DEG C of pKa value
The content of ingredient derived from physical resources, organic acid unit is more than 0 mole of % relative to the dicarboxylic acid units and is less than
Equal to 0.09 mole %. 
 Hereinafter, providing an example of the manufacturing method of the polyurethane from biomass resource of the present invention. 
 The polyurethane of the present invention can by ontology, it is namely solvent-free in a manner of reacted to manufacture, can also be in non-matter
It is reacted in the solvent excellent to the dissolubility of polyurethane as sub- property polar solvent. 
 Manufacturing method of an example under the coexisting of non-protonic solvent is given below, as long as coexisting in non-protonic solvent
It is lower, it is not particularly limited.As manufacturing method, for example, one-stage process and two-phase method. 
 So-called one-stage process is to make polyester polyol, polyisocyanate compound and chain extender from biomass resource together
The method of reaction. 
 In addition, so-called two-phase method is to make polyester polyol from biomass resource and polyisocyanate compound anti-first
It answers, after preparing the prepolymer that two ends are isocyanate group, makes prepolymer and method (the hereinafter also referred to isocyanide of chain extender reaction
The two-phase method of perester radical end).In addition, as two-phase method, it can also enumerate after preparing the prepolymer that two ends are hydroxyl, make
The method that prepolymer is reacted with polyisocyanates. 
 Wherein, the such process of two-phase method experience of isocyanate group end：By make polyester polyol in advance with 1 equivalent
Above polyisocyanates reaction prepares the intermediate of the two terminal isocyanates sealing end to be equivalent to polyurethane soft segment. 
 Make itself and chain extender reaction after first preparing prepolymer, thus there is the molecular weight for being easy to adjust soft segment part, be easy to
So that soft segment is separated with hard section, is easily obtained the feature of the performance as elastomer. 
 Especially in the case where chain extender is diamines, compared with the hydroxyl of polyester polyol, with isocyanate group
Reaction speed has relatively big difference, so more preferably implementing polyurethane-urea with prepolymer method. 
 (one-stage process) 
 One-stage process is also referred to as one-step method, is by by the polyester polyol from biomass resource, polyisocyanates chemical combination
The method that object and chain extender feed intake to be reacted together.As long as the dosage of each compound uses the amount of above-mentioned record. 
 One-step method can use solvent, can not also use.Without using solvent, it can both be sent out using low pressure
Bubble machine or high pressure foaming machine can also use high speed rotation mixing machine, polyisocyanate component and polyol component be stirred mixed
It closes. 
 Using solvent, as solvent, for example, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl iso-butyl ketone (MIBK) and ring
The aromatic hydrocarbons such as the hydro carbons such as the ethers such as the ketones such as hexanone, dioxane and tetrahydrofuran, hexane and hexamethylene, toluene and dimethylbenzene
The halogenated hydrocarbons such as the esters such as class, ethyl acetate and butyl acetate, chlorobenzene, trichloro ethylene and tetrachloro-ethylene and gamma-butyrolacton,
The aprotic polars such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), n-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, N,N-dimethylformamide and DMAC N,N' dimethyl acetamide
The two or more mixtures of solvent and they. 
 In the present invention, from manufacture polyurethane when from deliquescent aspect, these organic solvents preferred aprotic
Polar solvent, this is the feature of the present invention.In turn, more excellent if enumerating the preferred concrete example of aprotic polar solvent
Select methyl ethyl ketone, methyl iso-butyl ketone (MIBK), DMAC N,N' dimethyl acetamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, n-methyl-2-pyrrolidone and two
Methyl sulfoxide, particularly preferred n,N-Dimethylformamide and n,N-dimethylacetamide. 
 In the case of one-step method (being reacted by 1 stage), NCO/ activity hydrogen-based (polyester polyol and chain extension
Agent) reaction equivalent than lower limit be preferably generally 0.50, more preferably 0.8, the upper limit is preferably generally 1.5, more preferably 1.2
Range. 
 By the way that above-mentioned reaction equivalent ratio is set as above-mentioned 1.5 hereinafter, can prevent excessive isocyanate group from causing pair
It reacts and undesired effect is generated to the physical property of polyurethane.In addition, by the way that reaction equivalent ratio is set as 0.50 or more, gained
To the molecular weight of polyurethane fully increase, can prevent from leading to the problem of in intensity or thermal stability. 
 Usually make each ingredient preferably at 0~100 DEG C react, however its temperature preferably according to the amount of solvent, use raw material
Reactivity, consersion unit etc. are adjusted.When temperature is too low, carrying out for reaction is slow, and the dissolubility of raw material and polymer
It is low and make producing rate variance, in addition, when the temperature is excessively high, causing side reaction or the decomposition of polyurethane resin, thus it is not preferred.It can
To be reacted while deaeration under reduced pressure. 
 In addition, for reaction, catalyst, stabilizer etc. can also be added as needed on. 
 As catalyst, for example, triethylamine, tri-n-butylamine, dibutyl tin laurate, stannous octoate, acetic acid,
Phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid and sulfonic acid etc.. 
 As stabilizer, for example, 2,6- dibutyl -4- methylphenols, thio-2 acid 2 stearyl ester, two -
Betanaphthyl phenylenediamine and tricresyl phosphate (dinonylphenyl) ester etc.. 
 (two-phase method) 
 Two-phase method is also referred to as prepolymer method, makes polyisocyanate component with polyol component usually to be preferably 1.0 in advance
~10.00 reaction equivalent ratio is reacted, and prepolymer is manufactured.Next, to prepolymer addition polyisocyanate component, more
First alkohol and amine compound isoreactivity hydrogen compound ingredient carries out 2 elementary reactions.Especially following methods are useful, that is, relative to
Polyol component makes it be reacted with polyisocyanate compound more than equivalent, make two end NCO prepolymers, then with conduct
The short-chain diol or diamines of chain extender act on, and obtain polyurethane. 
 Two-phase method can use solvent, can not also use.Using solvent, as solvent, such as can be with
Enumerate the ethers such as the ketones such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl iso-butyl ketone (MIBK) and cyclohexanone, dioxane and tetrahydrofuran, hexane, hexamethylene
Esters, chlorobenzene, trichloro ethylene and four such as the hydro carbons such as alkane, toluene and dimethylbenzene etc. is aromatic hydrocarbon, ethyl acetate and butyl acetate
The halogenated hydrocarbons such as vinyl chloride, gamma-butyrolacton, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), n-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, N,N-dimethylformamide and N,
The aprotic polar solvents such as N- dimethylacetylamides and their two or more mixtures. 
 In the present invention, from manufacture polyurethane when from deliquescent aspect, these organic solvents preferred aprotic
Polar solvent, this is the feature of the present invention.In turn, more excellent if enumerating the preferred concrete example of aprotic polar solvent
Select n,N-dimethylacetamide, n,N-Dimethylformamide, n-methyl-2-pyrrolidone and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), particularly preferred N,
Dinethylformamide and DMAC N,N' dimethyl acetamide. 
 In synthesizing isocyanate base end prepolymer, both can (1) first do not use solvent, directly make polyisocyanates
Compound is reacted with polyester polyol, is directly used after synthetic prepolymer；Can also (2) in the method synthetic prepolymer with (1)
It is molten afterwards to use in a solvent；Just it can make polyisocyanates and polyol reaction using solvent from beginning with (3). 
 For situation (1), in of the invention, when being acted on chain extender, by the way that chain extender is molten in a solvent or in solvent
In simultaneously import prepolymer and chain extender etc. method, polyurethane is obtained in the form of being coexisted with solvent, this is important. 
 The reaction equivalent of NCO/ activity hydrogen-based (polyester polyol) than lower limit be preferably generally 1, more preferably 1.1, on
Limit is preferably generally 10, more preferably 5, further preferably 3 range. 
 For the dosage of chain extender, it is not particularly limited, however relative to the equivalent of the NCO bases contained by prepolymer, lower limit
Preferably generally 0.8, more preferably 1, the upper limit are preferably generally 2, more preferably 1.2 range. 
 By by above-mentioned than being set as 2 hereinafter, to polyurethane by can preventing excessive isocyanate group from causing side reaction
Physical property generate undesired effect.In addition, by the way that above-mentioned ratio is set as 0.8 or more, the molecular weight of obtained polyurethane
It fully improves, can prevent from leading to the problem of in intensity and thermal stability. 
 In addition, when reaction, the organic amine of mono-functional, alcohol can be made to coexist. 
 Usually make each ingredient preferably at 0~250 DEG C react, however its temperature preferably according to the amount of solvent, use raw material
Reactivity, consersion unit etc. are adjusted.When temperature is too low, carrying out for reaction is slow, and the dissolubility of raw material and polymer
It is low and make producing rate variance, in addition, when the temperature is excessively high, causing side reaction or the decomposition of polyurethane resin, thus it is not preferred.It can
To be reacted while deaeration under reduced pressure. 
 In addition, for reaction, catalyst, stabilizer etc. can also be added as needed on. 
 As catalyst, for example, triethylamine, tri-n-butylamine, dibutyl tin laurate, stannous octoate, acetic acid,
Phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid and sulfonic acid etc..However, in the case where chain extender is the high compound of short-chain aliphatic amine isoreactivity,
Catalyst is not added when preferred implementation. 
 As stabilizer, for example, 2,6- dibutyl -4- methylphenols, thio-2 acid 2 stearyl ester, two -
Betanaphthyl phenylenediamine and tricresyl phosphate (dinonylphenyl) ester etc.. 
 When polyurethane manufactures, if using the general used dicarboxylic acids from oil, when urethane reaction, is difficult
To control reaction, gelation etc. leads to that molecular weight increases extremely or molecular weight distribution becomes abnormal big, and uses contained above-mentioned
It surprisingly can control the reaction when urethane reaction when amount of organic acid is the above-mentioned dicarboxylic acids of particular range, do not have
It leads to the problem of above-mentioned.Therefore, it is possible to manufacture the linear polyurethane from biomass resource, thus the treatability of polyurethane
It improves, in addition, being formulated by being adjusted according to its purposes, can be used in extensive field. 
 When the polyurethane manufacture of the present invention, need heat resistance and intensity with crosslinking agent is added on the way in the case of, with
It is compared when using the dicarboxylic acids from oil generally used, preferably increases additive amount.In addition, the polyurethane manufacture of the present invention
When, since the viscosity of the polyurethane of gained is low, so when being post-processed, being processed to polyurethane, and use from oil
It is compared when succinic acid, preferably slightly reduces temperature, as a result, treatability, safety, economy are good. 
 <Dermatine or synthetic leather> 
 The dermatine or synthetic leather of the present invention are described in detail.Dermatine or synthetic leather with base fabric,
Cement layers and epidermis are as main composition important document.Other resins are mixed in the polyurethane resin obtained in the present invention, are resisted
Oxidant and ultra-violet absorber etc. make polyurethane resin solution, and mixed colorant and organic solvent etc. obtain table thereto
Cortex fluid,matching forms epidermis by epidermis fluid,matching.It is anti-that other can be added as needed in polyurethane resin solution
Hydrolytic reagent, pigment, dyestuff, fire retardant, packing material and crosslinking agent etc.. 
 As other resins, for example, polyurethane resin, poly- (methyl) acrylic resin other than the present invention,
Ethlyene dichloride-vinyl acetate based copolymer, ethlyene dichloride-vinyl propionate based copolymer, polyvinyl butyral system resin,
Cellulose-based resin, polyester resin, epoxy resin and phenoxy resin and polyamide etc.. 
 As crosslinking agent, for example, the TDI addition products of organic multiple isocyanate, thick MDI, trimethylolpropane,
Polyisocyanate compounds such as triphenylmethane triisocyanate etc.. 
 As base fabric, for example, washing Telon (Tetoron)/artificial silk, cotton nylon loop, knitwear and nylon through flat
Tissue etc..In addition, as cement, for example, being made of polyurethane resin and polyisocyanate compound and catalyst
2 fluid polyurethane resins. 
 In addition, as polyisocyanate compound, for example, the TDI addition products etc. of trimethylolpropane.As
Catalyst, for example, the catalyst of amine system or tin system etc.. 
 Secondly, the manufacturing method of the synthetic leather of the present invention is illustrated.That is, in polyurethane resin obtained above
Other resins etc. are mixed, make polyurethane resin solution, wherein mixed colorant etc., make epidermis fluid,matching.Then, will
The fluid,matching is coated on processing release paper, after making it dry, is further coated with cement, is formed cement layers, paste on it
Felt etc. simultaneously makes it dry, and then after the room temperature curing a few days, removes processing release paper, this makes it possible to obtain the synthetic leathers of the present invention. 
 The dermatine or synthetic leather of the present invention can be used for dress material purposes, shoes purposes, suitcase purposes etc.. 
 The sole of the present invention is described in detail with polyurethane.Use the sole polyurethane of above-mentioned polyester polyol
The autofrettage of foam is main, and there are as below methods：(1) it manufactures making polyisocyanate component react with polyol component and foam
When polyurethane foam, the method for the polyol component containing above-mentioned polyester polyol is used (hereinafter referred to as polyol component
Preparation method A)；(2) when making isocyanate prepolymer, (isocyanate prepolymer is that polyisocyanate component is reacted with polyol component
Obtained from) when being reacted with polyol component and foaming to manufacture polyurethane foam, as the original as isocyanate prepolymer
The polyol component of material uses the method (hereinafter referred to as preparation method B) of the polyol component containing above-mentioned polyester polyol. 
 First, preparation method A is illustrated.In preparation method A, as making polyol component be reacted with polyisocyanate component
And foam come polyol component used when manufacturing polyurethane foam, can be used the polyalcohol containing above-mentioned polyester polyol at
Point. 
 In polyol component in addition to above-mentioned polyester polyol, other polyester polyol, polypropylene glycol can also be contained
With polyether polyol, polycaprolactone polyol and the polycarbonate polyol such as polytetramethylene glycol etc..These ingredients respectively can be single
It solely uses, two or more uses can also be mixed. 
 As the typical example of the polyisocyanate component for preparation method A, isocyanate prepolymer etc. can be enumerated.Isocyanic acid
Ester prepolymer be by make polyisocynate monomer and polyalcohol polyisocynate monomer be present in excess it is lower utilize conventional method
Obtained from stirring, reaction. 
 As the concrete example of polyisocynate monomer, toluene di-isocyanate(TDI), m-benzene diisocyanate can be enumerated, to benzene
Diisocyanate, benzene dimethylene diisocyanate, '-diphenylmethane diisocyanate, hexamethylene diisocyanate, different Fo Er
The polyisocyanic acid such as ketone diisocyanate, polymethylene polyphenyl group diisocyanate, dimethyl -4,4- biphenyl diisocyanates are esterified
Close object, their modified body, such as carbodiimide modified body. 
 These monomers may be used singly or in combination of two or more.In these, 4,4- bis- is preferably used alone
Phenylmethane diisocyanate or 4,4- '-diphenylmethane diisocyanates are shared with its carbodiimide modified body. 
 For the NCO% of isocyanate prepolymer, its viscosity never occurs and gets higher and makes the molding in low-pressure blowing machine
From the point of view of becoming difficult, preferably 15% or more, more preferably 17% or more make the meter of foaming machine from viscosity is avoided
From the point of view of accuracy of measurement reduces, preferably 25% hereinafter, more preferably 23% hereinafter, further preferably 22% or less. 
 Isocyanate prepolymer can be discharged under low pressure due to being in a liquid state in 15 DEG C or more of temperature, so
Such as polyurethane foam can be easily manufactured in 40~50 DEG C of forming temperature. 
 In preparation method A, when making polyisocyanate component be reacted with polyol component, preferably the ratio of the two is adjusted
It is whole so that isocyanate index become 95~110. 
 In preparation method A, polyisocyanate component and polyol component are mixed in molding machine, stirred, pattern is injected into
Make its foaming in tool, it is possible thereby to manufacture polyurethane foam.More specifically, for example, using tank etc. by the temperature of polyol component
After degree is usually adjusted to 40 DEG C or so of temperature, automatic mixed injection type foaming machine and automatic mixing injection type foaming machine etc. are used
Foaming machine polyols blend ingredient and polyisocyanate component simultaneously make its reaction, it is possible thereby to manufacture polyurethane foam. 
 In addition, according to preparation method A, after mixing polyisocyanate component and polyol component, using being usually adjusted to 40
The foaming machine of~50 DEG C or so temperature can be shaped to carbamate sole. 
 Secondly, preparation method B is illustrated.In preparation method B, make through isocyanate prepolymer (isocyanate prepolymer
It is obtained from polyisocyanate component is reacted with polyol component) it reacts and foams with polyol component to manufacture polyurethane foam
When foam, as polyol component used when preparing isocyanate prepolymer, it can be used polynary containing above-mentioned polyester polyol
Alcohol component. 
 As polyester polyol contained in polyol component used when preparing isocyanate prepolymer, the present invention is used
Polyester polyol.Manufacture raw material as isocyanate prepolymer --- polyisocyanate component is for example, preparation method A
The middle polyisocynate monomer etc. used. 
 As polyisocynate monomer, can illustrate identical with the concrete example of polyisocynate monomer used in preparation method A
Example.In addition, in the monomer of these illustrations, the exclusive use or 4 of preferably 4,4- '-diphenylmethane diisocyanates, 4- diphenyl-methanes
Diisocyanate is shared with its carbodiimide modified body. 
 In preparation method B, by using above-mentioned polyester polyol, obtained isocyanate prepolymer can be kept well
Viscosity, thus the polyurethane foam for the mechanical strength for having excellent can be obtained. 
 Other polyester polyol can be contained in polyol component in addition to above-mentioned polyester polyol.It is poly- as others
Ester polyol ingredient, such as polyester polyol identical with other polyester polyol components used in preparation method A can be illustrated. 
 The content of above-mentioned polyester polyol in polyol component is preferably 10~100 weight %, and more preferably 50~100
The content of weight %, other polyester polyol are preferably 0~90 weight %, more preferably 0~50 weight %. 
 In addition, being preferably adjusted for the ratio of polyisocyanate component and polyol component so that NCO bases/OH bases
Equivalent proportion generally preferably becomes 5~30 or so. 
 Then, polyisocyanate component, polyol component and additive when necessary are mixed using conventional method, stirring
And make its reaction, this makes it possible to obtain isocyanate prepolymers. 
 NCO% for the isocyanate prepolymer obtained in this way, from making viscosity reduce, be easy to be molded with low-pressure blowing machine
From the point of view of, preferably 12% or more, more preferably 14% or more, the metering essence for assigning viscosity from appropriateness, improving foaming machine
From the point of view of degree, preferably 25% hereinafter, more preferably 23% hereinafter, further preferably 22% or less. 
 Isocyanate prepolymer can be discharged under low pressure due to being in a liquid state in 15 DEG C or more of temperature, so
Such as 40~50 DEG C of forming temperature can manufacture polyurethane foam well. 
 Then, so that isocyanate prepolymer reacted, foamed with polyol component, thus obtain polyurethane foam. 
 As polyol component used is reacted with isocyanate prepolymer, it can illustrate and be used for polyalcohol in preparation method A
The identical polyalcohol of other polyalcohols other than the polyester polyol of ingredient. 
 In addition, as needed can also be suitable, appropriately in reacting used polyol component with isocyanate prepolymer
Add chain extender, foaming agent, urethanation catalyst, stabilizer, pigment etc.. 
 In preparation method B, when making polyisocyanate component be reacted with polyol component, preferably the ratio of the two is adjusted
It is whole so that isocyanate index preferably reaches 95~110. 
 In addition, in preparation method B, isocyanate prepolymer, polyol component and additive when necessary are utilized into molding machine
It is mixed and is stirred, injection moulding mold makes its foaming, it is possible thereby to manufacture polyurethane foam.More specifically, for example,
After polyol component is usually adjusted to 40 DEG C or so of temperature using tank etc., using automatic mixed injection type foaming machine, automatically
The foaming machines such as injection type foaming machine are mixed, is mixed with isocyanate prepolymer and it is made to react, it is possible thereby to manufacture polyurethane foam
Foam. 
 In addition, according to preparation method B, after mixing isocyanate prepolymer and polyol component, using being usually adjusted to 40
The foaming machine of~50 DEG C or so temperature can be shaped to carbamate sole.When preparation method B to be used for the manufacture of sole, gained
The polyurethane foam arrived can make the mechanical strengths such as tensile strength, fracture strength although the amount of resin of per unit volume is reduced
Fully improve. 
 In this way, being obtained from sufficient mechanical strength by preparation method A or preparation method B from the aspect of realizing low-density
The molding volume density of polyurethane foam be preferably 0.15~1.0g/cm 3 , more preferably 0.2~0.4g/cm 3 。 
 <The physical property of polyurethane from biomass resource> 
 The polyurethane from biomass resource of the present invention is including at least aliphatic diol unit, dicarboxylic acid units, more
Isocyanate units and 25 DEG C pKa value be polyurethane of the 3.7 organic acid units below as structural unit, the dicarboxyl
Acid includes at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, and the content of organic acid unit is relative to the dicarboxylic acid units
More than 0 mole of % and it is less than or equal to 0.09 mole of %. 
 The lower limit of the content of above-mentioned organic acid unit is not particularly limited, however relative to above-mentioned dicarboxylic acid units, preferably
It is 9 × 10 -8 Mole % or more, more preferably 9 × 10 -7 Mole % or more, further preferably 4.5 × 10 -6 Mole % or more,
Particularly preferably 6.3 × 10 -6 Mole % or more, most preferably 9 × 10 -6 Mole % or more, the upper limit is preferably 9 × 10 -2 Mole %
Hereinafter, more preferably 7.2 × 10 -2 Mole % is hereinafter, further preferably 5.4 × 10 -2 Mole % or less. 
 If the content of above-mentioned organic acid unit is more than 0.09 mole of %, the gelation etc. when polyurethane-reinforcement reacts causes
Molecular weight increases extremely or molecular weight distribution is extremely big, has the polyurethane for forming the mechanical properties such as flexibility and elongation
Tendency.In addition, if the content of above-mentioned organic acid unit is more than 0.09 mole of %, content easily fluctuates, not only institute
The physical property for obtaining polyurethane is unstable, and there is also be difficult to stablize the tendency of operation in manufacturing process.On the other hand, by setting
Determine content and be more than 0 mole of %, there is the tendency for the polyurethane for forming high mechanical strength. 
 In addition, such physical property below the polyurethane preferred display from biomass resource of the present invention. 
 The physical property of the polyurethane of the present invention is as poly butylene succinate or poly-succinic/adipic acid-butanediol ester
Aliphatic diol and aliphatic dicarboxylic acid polyurethane for when illustrating, preferably possess tensile stress be 5~15MPa,
Elongation at break is the very wide physical property characteristic of range as 300~1500%. 
 In addition, when using specific purposes as object, can be made possess the region beyond range as described above, it is arbitrary
Wide scope characteristic polyurethane.It can be according to type, the polymerizing condition for using purpose to change urethane raw or additive
Or condition of molding etc., carry out arbitrary these characteristics of adjustment. 
 Hereinafter, the range of representative physics value possessed by detailed disclosure polyurethane of the present invention. 
 The ratio of components preferred diol unit of polyurethane copolymer and the molar ratio of dicarboxylic acid units are substantially equal. 
 Sulphur atom content in the polyurethane of the present invention is scaled atom, the upper limit is preferably relative to the polyurethane quality
50ppm hereinafter, more preferably 5ppm hereinafter, further preferably 3ppm hereinafter, most preferably 0.3ppm or less.On the other hand,
Lower limit is not particularly limited, however preferably 0.0001ppm or more, more preferably 0.001ppm or more, further preferably
0.01ppm or more, particularly preferably 0.05ppm or more, most preferably 0.1ppm or more. 
 By the way that above-mentioned sulfur content is set as 50ppm hereinafter, the thermal stability or hydrolytic resistance of polyurethane can be improved.Separately
Outside, it by being set as 0.001ppm or more, prevents refined cost from significantly increasing, is both economically advantageous in the manufacture of polyurethane
's. 
 In the polymer of the present invention, especially the case where using the polyurethane of the raw material derived from biomass resource
Under, for example, with the tendency containing the volatile organic components such as tetrahydrofuran and acetaldehyde is easy in polyurethane.The volatility has
The upper limit of the content of machine ingredient usually in polyurethane be preferably 10000ppm hereinafter, more preferably 3000ppm hereinafter, further
Preferably 1000ppm is hereinafter, most preferably 500ppm or less.On the other hand, lower limit is not particularly limited, however is preferably generally
1ppb or more, more preferably 10ppb or more, further preferably 100ppb or more. 
 By the way that the amount of above-mentioned volatile ingredient is set as 10000ppm hereinafter, can prevent from causing peculiar smell, and prevent
The deterioration of foaming or storage stability when melt molding.On the other hand, by being set as 1ppb or more, in addition to that need not be used for
Other than the equipment investment for manufacturing the extremely great number of polymer, many manufacturing times are not needed, are economically advantageous yet. 
 The polyurethane manufactured in the present invention is preferably generally and colours few polyurethane.YI value (the bases of the polyurethane of the present invention
In JIS-K7105) the upper limit be preferably generally 20 hereinafter, more preferably 10 hereinafter, further preferably 5 hereinafter, particularly preferably
For 3 hereinafter, on the other hand, lower limit is not particularly limited, however -20 or more, more preferably -5 or more are preferably generally, into one
Step preferably -1 or more. 
 YI values, which are 20 polyurethane below, has the advantages that the usage of film and piece etc. is unrestricted.On the other hand, YI
Value is -20 or more polyurethane, and the manufacturing process for manufacturing polymer will not complicate, need not the equipment of extremely great number throw
Money, is economically advantageous. 
 The weight average molecular weight of polyurethane measured by GPC is different according to purposes, however, polymerizeing as polyurethane
Solution, it is often preferred that 10,000~1,000,000, more preferably 50,000~500,000, further preferably 100,000~400,000, particularly preferably
100000~300,000.As molecular weight distribution, preferably Mw/Mn=1.5~3.5, more preferably 1.8~2.5, further preferably
1.9~2.3. 
 By the way that above-mentioned molecular weight is set as 1,000,000 hereinafter, preventing solution viscosity excessively high, treatability improves.In addition, passing through
Molecular weight is set as 10,000 or more, the physical property excessive descent of obtained polyurethane can be prevented.By the way that molecular weight distribution is set
It is set to 1.5 or more, prevents the economy intolerable degradation of the manufacture of polyurethane, the elasticity modulus of obtained polyurethane from improving.Separately
Outside, by the way that molecular weight distribution is set as 3.5 hereinafter, preventing solution viscosity excessively high, treatability improves, in addition, obtained by preventing
Polyurethane elasticity modulus it is excessively high, elastic recovery gets a promotion. 
 As polyurethane molded body (such as synthetic leather or dermatine, sole polyurethane, film, sheet material, pipe, moisture-inhibiting
Property resin etc.), the weight average molecular weight of polyurethane is preferably generally 10,000~1,000,000, more preferably 50,000~500,000, further preferably
It is 100,000~400,000, particularly preferably 150,000~350,000.As molecular weight distribution, Mw/Mn is preferably 1.5~3.5, more preferably
1.8~2.5, further preferably 1.9~2.3. 
 By the way that above-mentioned molecular weight is set as 1,000,000 hereinafter, preventing melt viscosity from becoming excessively high, treatability improves.In addition,
By setting molecular weight as 10,000 or more, it can prevent the physical property of gained polyurethane from excessively reducing.By the way that molecular weight distribution is set
It is 1.5 or more, the economy of the manufacture of polyurethane improves, and can improve the elasticity modulus of obtained polyurethane.In addition, passing through
Molecular weight distribution is set as 3.5 hereinafter, preventing melt viscosity from becoming excessively high, treatability improves, furthermore it is possible to obtained by preventing
Polyurethane elasticity modulus it is excessively high, improve elastic recovery. 
 Solution (hereinafter also referred to polyurethane solutions) containing the polyurethane manufactured in the present invention due to gelation be difficult into
Row, the ongoing change of viscosity is small to wait storage stabilities good, and in addition thixotropy is also small, so being all suitable for processing film forming and silk etc.
It closes. 
 Relative to the total weight for making polyurethane be dissolved in the polyurethane solutions obtained in non-protonic solvent, polyurethane contains
Amount is preferably generally 1~99 weight %, more preferably 5~90 weight %, further preferably 10~70 weight %, particularly preferably
For 15~50 weight %.By the way that the amount of polyurethane is set as 1 weight % or more, without removing a large amount of solvent, can improve
Productivity.In addition, by being set as 99 weight % hereinafter, operability or processability can be improved with the viscosity of suppression solution. 
 Polyurethane solutions do not specify, however are preferably preserved under the inert gas atmospheres such as nitrogen, argon when long-term preservation. 
 <Polyurethane molded body and purposes> 
 The polyurethane and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention can show multifrequency nature, Ke Yiguang
It is general to be used for foam, elastomer, coating, fiber, cement, flooring material, fluid sealant, medical material, dermatine etc.. 
 It is poly- that polyurethane, polyurethane-urea and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention can be used for casting mold
Urethane elastomer.Such as it can be used for the rollers classes such as stack, paper bowl processed, office machine and draw roll (プ レ テ ン ロ ー Le), fork
Solid tyre, small horn ring and the conveyer belt carrying roller of the new electric car of vehicle, automobile (NewTram), flat car and transport vehicle etc.,
Guide roller, belt pulley, steel pipe lining, ore rubber sieve plate, gear class, connection ring, liner, the impeller of pump, cyclone cylinder taper
The industrial products such as bottom and cyclone lining.In addition, can be used for the band of OA machines, feeding-in roll, squeegee (ス Network シ ジ ー), answering
Print cleaning doctor, snowplow, odontoid belt, slide plate roller (サ ー フ ロ ー ラ ー (surf roller)) etc.. 
 The polyurethane and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention is equally applicable to as thermoplastic elastic
The purposes of body.For example, can be as pneumatics machine, apparatus for coating, analytical instrument, the physics and chemistry instrument in food, medical field
The uses such as pipe or hose, helix tube and fire hose in device, constant displacement pump, water process machine and industrial robot etc..
In addition, as belts such as round belt, V belt and flat belts, can be used for various transmission mechanisms, spinning machinery, packaging machine and
Printing machinery etc.. 
 In addition, for example can be used for the heightening shoes of footwear with skin or sole, connector, gasket, field leads, bushing,
The band etc. of the machine parts such as gear, roller, sporting goods, leisure goods, clock and watch. 
 In addition, as automobile component, oil brake, gear-box, gasket, vehicle chassis component, Interior Parts and tyre chain can be enumerated
Substitute etc..In addition, the films such as keyboard membrane and automobile film, spiral, cable sheath, bellows, conveyer belt, flexible appearance can be illustrated
Device, binder, synthetic leather, infusion product and cement etc.. 
 Manufactured polyurethane and its carbamate prepolymer solution are equally applicable to as solvent system two in the present invention
The purposes of liquid type coating can be adapted for musical instrument, the niche for a statue of Buddha, furniture, the decoration Wood products such as plywood and sporting goods.In addition, making
For tar epoxy amino formic acid esters, it can be also used for automobile and study for a second time courses one has flunked purposes. 
 The polyurethane and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention can be used as a liquid type of moisture-curable
Coating, blocked isocyanate series solvent coating, phthalic resin coating, urethane-modified synthetic resin coating, ultraviolet light are solid
The ingredient of change type coating etc. uses. 
 Such as it is suitable as plastics bumper bar coating, strippable coating, tape coating agent, floor tile, flooring material, paper
, finishing oils, timber varnish, high processing coil coating, fiber optics protective coating, solder resist, the metal such as wood grain printing film
Printing external coating, vapor deposition base coating, food cans white coat etc.. 
 The polyurethane and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention is applicable to shoes, shoes as cement
Class, tape binder, facing paper, timber and structure member etc., alternatively, it is also possible to as low temperature cement, hot melt adhesive at
Point. 
 The polyurethane and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention can be used for magnetic recording medium as binder
Matter, ink, casting, burned brick, graft materials, microcapsules, granular fertilizer, granular pesticide, polymer water mud mortar, resin ash
Slurry, rubber grain binder, regenerated foam and glass fiber size etc.. 
 The polyurethane and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention can be with as the ingredient of fiber processing agent
For shrink-resistant finish, wrinkle resistant processing, waterproof processing etc.. 
 Polyurethane, polyurethane-urea and its carbamate prepolymer solution manufactured in the present invention is as fluid sealant or caulking joint
Material can be used for concrete casting wall, induce seam, window frame periphery, wall type PC seams, ALC seams, plate class seam, compound glass
With fluid sealant, heat-insulation window fluid sealant and Automobile sealant etc.. 
 The polyurethane manufactured in the present invention is suitable for sole polyurethane, synthetic leather, dermatine purposes.In addition, making
When with polyurethane manufactured by the present invention, also there are the skeletons such as adipic acid, decanedioic acid in polyester polyol component.Moreover, by
Plant is come from the polyurethane of these present invention, and there is biological degradability, so being more suitable for as resin for shoes non-
Durable construction store. 
 
 
 Embodiment 
 Hereinafter, based on the embodiment of the present invention, be illustrated in more details, as long as however the present invention does not depart from its main points,
It is not limited by the following examples.Secondly, the present invention is described in more detail by embodiment. 
 (molecular weight determination of polyester polyol) 
 The number-average molecular weight of polyester polyol is found out by hydroxyl value (OH value mg KOH/g). 
 (molecular weight determination of polyurethane) 
 The molecular weight determination of the polyurethane solutions of gained uses GPC devices (the column TSKgel that (strain) Shimadzu Seisakusho Ltd. manufactures
Super HZM-N, solvent are the n,N-dimethylacetamide added with lithium bromide), it is equal with the weight for being converted into standard polystyren
Molecular weight is as molecular weight. 
 (assay method of film physical property) 
 Polyurethane resin test film is the strip of wide 10mm, long 100mm, 50~100 μm of thickness, uses cupping machine
[the Tensilon RTC-1210A of (strain) ORIENTEC manufactures] is measured.200mm/ points of distance 20mm, the tensile speed between collet
Implement under conditions of clock, temperature 23 DEG C (relative humidity 55%).Every 1 sample measures at 10 points, and fracture strength, elongation at break are adopted
With its average value. 
 (APHA values) 
 It is measured with the method based on JIS-K0101. 
 (nitrogen atom content) 
 It takes 10mg samples to be fitted into quartz boat, is tried using total blood urea/nitrogen analyzer (the TN-10 types of society of Mitsubishi Chemical manufacture) burning
Sample determines nitrogen atom content by chemoluminescence method. 
 (sulphur atom content) 
 About 0.1g samples are taken to be fitted into platinum boat, with quartzy tube furnace (AQF-100 (the concentration systems that society of Mitsubishi Chemical manufactures
System)) burning, absorb the sulfur-bearing ingredient in burning gases with 0.1% hydrogen peroxide.Thereafter, using ion chromatography, (Dionex societies manufacture
ICS-1000 types) measure absorbing liquid in sulfate ion. 
 Terminal carboxyl group amount：It is titrated with 0.1N NaOH and is obtained for gained polyester to be dissolved in benzyl alcohol
Value, is every 1 × 10 6 The carboxyl equivalent of g. 
 (YI values) 
 Method based on JIS-K7105 measures. 
 (mean light absorbency of 250~300nm) 
 It is measured, and is used in defined in [specific implementation mode] of this specification using Hitachi spectrophotometer UV-3500
Method finds out the mean light absorbency. 
 (the analysis of organic acid, carbohydrate：High performance liquid chromatography) 
 Column：ULTRON PS-80H 8.0mm I.D. × 30cm of letter and Chemical Co., Ltd's manufacture 
 Temperature：60℃ 
 Eluent：0.1%- high chloro acid solutions 1.0mL/min 
 Injection：10μl 
 Detection：RI detectors or UV detectors 
 Malic acid detection is limited to 100ppm. 
 [the analysis of micro (when being less than 100ppm) malic acid：LC-MS] 
 Column：The MCI GEL CK08EH (8.0mm × 300mmL.) of Mitsubishi Chemical's manufacture 
 Temperature：60℃ 
 Eluent：0.02% aqueous formic acid 1.0mL/min 
 Injection：3μl 
 Detection：ESI-SIM (anion) m/z133.2 (malic acid quasi-molecular ion signal) 
 Malic acid detection limit is 0.05ppm in S/N=3. 
 (analysis of amino acid) 
 Device：Hitachi amino-acid analyzer L-8900 
 Analysis condition：Organism separation for amino acids condition-ninhydrin (570nm, 440nm) 
 Standard items：PF (and light amino acid mixed liquor A NII type 0.8ml+B types 0.8ml → 10ml) 
 Injection rate：10μl 
 (hydrolysis process for quantification of protein and analysis) 
 Accurate weighing 10mg or 100mg sample, is 1ml with pure water constant volume, is dispensed with 200 μ l and solid, in hydrochloric acid atmosphere
Under in 150 DEG C heat 1 hour, protein is hydrolyzed.200 μ l pure water are added after keeping its solid to be redissolved, with 0.45 μ
After the filtering of m filters, by filtrate for amino acid analysis.The increment of the front and back total amino acid amount of hydrolysis is considered as albumen quality. 
 Hereinafter, enumerating embodiment is described in more detail the present invention, but the present invention is not limited to these embodiments restrictions. 
 Reference example 1 
 <The making of succinate fermentative bacterial strain> 
 (A) extraction of brevibacterium flavum MJ233 pnca genes group DNA 
 Brevibacterium flavum MJ233 was preserved in Govement Industrial Research Inst., Ministry of Commerce's microbiological industry skill on April 28th, 1975
Art research institute (existing Independent Administrative Leged Industrial Technology Complex Inst Patent Organism collection) (〒 305-8566 Japan thatch
6), preserving number is FERM P-3068, transfers Bu Dapei on May 1st, 1981 in 1 center of the cities Zhu Bo of city county east 1 fourth mesh a kind of ground the
International Depository Authority under this treaty, preserving number are FERM BP-1497. 
 In 10ml A culture mediums [urea 2g, (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 7g、KH 2 PO 4 0.5g、K 2 HPO 4 0.5g、MgSO 4 ·7H 2 O
0.5g、FeSO 4 ·7H 2 O 6mg、MnSO 4 ·4-5H 2 O 6mg, 200 μ g of biotin, 200 μ g of thiamine, yeast extract 1g, junket
Argine Monohydrochloride 1g, glucose 20g, are dissolved in 1L distilled water] in by MJ-233 plants of brevibacterium flavum culture to exponential phase
Later stage collects thalline by centrifugation (10000G, 5 minutes). 
 Obtained thalline is suspended in the 10mM NaCl/20mM Tris buffer solutions of lysozyme with the concentration of 10mg/ml
(pH8.0) in/1mM EDTA2Na solution 0.15ml.Secondly, it is 100 μ g/ml's that ultimate density is added in above-mentioned suspension
Proteinase K keeps the temperature 1 hour at 37 DEG C.In turn, the lauryl sodium sulfate that addition ultimate density is 0.5%, 6 are kept the temperature at 50 DEG C
Hour, carry out bacteriolyze. 
 In the lysate add equivalent phenol/chloroform solution, at room temperature it is light and slow oscillation after ten minutes, entirety carry out from
Heart separation (5000G, 20 minutes, 10~12 DEG C), collects supernatant ingredient, and addition sodium acetate makes its a concentration of 0.3M, is then added 2
The ethyl alcohol of amount again, mixing.The sediment that centrifugation (15000G, 2 minutes) recycling is cleaned with 70% ethyl alcohol, then air-dries.To
10mM Tris buffer solutions (pH7.5)/1mM EDTA2Na solution of 5ml is added in the DNA of gained, is stood overnight in 4 DEG C, uses
Make the template DNA of subsequent PCR. 
 (B) structure of PC promoters substitution plasmid 
 The acquisition of the DNA fragmentation in the N-terminal region of the pyruvate carboxylase gene in MJ233 plants of sources of brevibacterium flavum, with
The DNA prepared in above-mentioned (A) is template, and by using synthetic DNA, (sequence number 1 and sequence number 2 are complete to be reported
Sequence (the GenBank Database Accession of the gene of ATCC13032 plants of the Corynebacterium glutamicum of genome sequence
The Cgl0689 of No.BA000036) based on design) PCR carry out.In addition, the DNA of sequence number 1 uses 5 ' ends through phosphorus
The DNA of acidification. 
 Reaction solution forms：By 1 μ L of template DNA, PfxDNA polymerases (manufacture of Invitrogen societies) 0.2 μ L, 1 times of concentration
Subsidiary buffer solution, 0.3 μM of various primer, 1mM MgSO 4 , 0.25 μM of dNTPs mixing, total volume is 20 μ L. 
 Reaction temperature condition：Using DNA thermal cyclers PTC-200 (manufacture of MJ Research societies), 35 wheels are carried out by 94 DEG C
20 seconds, 60 DEG C 20 seconds, 72 DEG C 1 minute composition cycles.But the 1st circulates in 94 DEG C and keeps the temperature 20 seconds 1 minute, the last one cycle
4 minutes are kept the temperature at 72 DEG C. 
 Pass through 0.75% agarose (SeaKem GTG agarose：FMCBioProducts is manufactured) gel electrophoresis separation
Afterwards, the segment that about 0.9kb is detected to confirm amplified production is shown by ethidium bromide staining.Use QIAQuick Gel
Extraction Kit (QIAGEN manufactures) recycle target DNA fragments from gel, as PC gene N-terminal segments. 
 On the other hand, sub-pieces is started for the TZ4 for carrying out high expression in structure in MJ233 plants of sources of brevibacterium flavum
Section, with plasmid pMJPC1 (Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2005-95169) for template, by using the conjunction recorded in sequence number 3 and sequence number 4
It is prepared at the PCR of DNA.In addition, the DNA that the DNA of sequence number 4 uses 5 ' ends phosphorylated. 
 Reaction solution forms：By 1 μ L of template DNA, PfxDNA polymerases (manufacture of Invitrogen societies) 0.2 μ L, 1 times of concentration
Subsidiary buffer solution, 0.3 μM of various primer, 1mM MgSO 4 , 0.25 μM of dNTPs mixing, total volume is 20 μ L. 
 Reaction temperature condition：Using DNA thermal cyclers PTC-200 (manufacture of MJ Research societies), 25 wheels are carried out by 94 DEG C
20 seconds, 60 DEG C 20 seconds, 72 DEG C 30 seconds composition cycles.But the 1st circulates in 94 DEG C and keeps the temperature 20 seconds 1 minute, the last one cycle
3 minutes are kept the temperature at 72 DEG C. 
 Pass through 1.0% agarose (SeaKem GTG agarose：FMCBioProducts manufacture) gel electrophoresis separation after,
Show the segment that about 0.5kb is detected to confirm amplified production by ethidium bromide staining.Use QIAQuick Gel
Extraction Kit (QIAGEN manufactures) recycle target DNA fragment from gel, as TZ4 promoter fragments. 
 The PC gene N-terminal segments and TZ4 promoter fragments that prepare among the above are mixed, connection kit ver.2 is used
After (precious wine makes generation) connection, is cut off with restriction enzyme PstI, pass through 1.0% agarose (SeaKem GTG agarose：
FMCBioProducts is manufactured) gel electrophoresis detaches, uses QIAQuick Gel Extraction Kit (QIAGEN manufactures)
The DNA fragmentation for recycling about 1.0kb, as TZ4 promoters：：PC gene N-terminal segments. 
 In turn, it is prepared by the DNA fragmentation and with PstI cut-out escherichia coli plasmid pHSG299 (precious wine makes generation)
DNA is mixed, and is connected using connection kit ver.2 (precious wine makes generation).With obtained plasmid DNA transformation Escherichia coli (DH5 α
Strain).The recombination bacillus coli obtained in this way is applied to and is trained containing the LB agar of 50 μ g/ml kanamycins and 50 μ g/ml X-Gal
It supports on base.After the clone for forming white colony on the culture medium is carried out Liquid Culture according to a conventional method, plasmid DNA purification.
It is named as by cutting off obtained Plasmid DNA with restriction enzyme PstI to confirm the Insert Fragment of about 1.0kb
pMJPC17.1。 
 Acquisition for the DNA fragmentation of the 5 ' upstream regions of MJ233 plants of pyruvate carboxylase genes of brevibacterium flavum, it is above
It is template to state the DNA prepared in (A), and by using synthetic DNA, (sequence number 5 and sequence number 6 are with the full base that has been reported
Because of sequence (the GenBank Database Accession of the gene of ATCC13032 plants of the Corynebacterium glutamicum of group sequence
No.BA000036 designed based on)) PCR carry out. 
 Reaction solution forms：By 1 μ L of template DNA, PfxDNA polymerases (manufacture of Invitrogen societies) 0.2 μ L, 1 times of concentration
Subsidiary buffer solution, 0.3 μM of various primer, 1mM MgSO 4 , 0.25 μM of dNTPs mixing, total volume is 20 μ L. 
 Reaction temperature condition：Using DNA thermal cyclers PTC-200 (manufacture of MJ Research societies), 35 wheels are carried out by 94 DEG C
20 seconds, 60 DEG C 20 seconds, 72 DEG C 30 seconds composition cycles.But the 1st circulates in 94 DEG C and keeps the temperature 20 seconds 1 minute, the last one cycle
5 minutes are kept the temperature at 72 DEG C. 
 Pass through 1.0% agarose (SeaKem GTG agarose：FMCBioProducts manufacture) gel electrophoresis separation after,
Show the segment that about 0.7kb is detected to confirm amplified production by ethidium bromide staining.Use QIAQuick Gel
Extraction Kit (QIAGEN manufactures) recycle target DNA fragment from gel. 
 The DNA fragmentation of recycling passes through T4 polynucleotide kinases (T4Polynucleotide Kinase：Precious wine makes generation) it will
After 5 ' terminal phosphates, being incorporated in escherichia coli vector pUC119 using connection kit ver.2 (precious wine makes generation), (precious wine is made
Generate) the positions SmaI, with obtained plasmid DNA transformation Escherichia coli (α plants of DH5).The recombination bacillus coli that will be obtained in this way
It is applied on the LB agar mediums containing 50 μ g/ml ampicillins and 50 μ g/ml X-Gal.It will be formed on the culture medium white
After the clone of color bacterium colony carries out Liquid Culture according to a conventional method, plasmid DNA purification.By the Plasmid DNA of gained for sequence number 7
With the PCR reactions that synthetic DNA shown in sequence number 6 is primer. 
 Reaction solution forms：By above-mentioned plasmid 1ng, Ex-TaqDNA polymerase (manufacture of Bao Jiuzao societies) 0.2 μ L, 1 times of concentration
Subsidiary buffer solution, 0.2 μM of various primer, 0.25 μM of dNTPs mixing, total volume is 20 μ L. 
 Reaction temperature condition：Using DNA thermal cyclers PTC-200 (manufacture of MJ Research societies), 20 wheels are carried out by 94 DEG C
20 seconds, 60 DEG C 20 seconds, 72 DEG C 50 seconds composition cycles.But the 1st circulates in 94 DEG C and keeps the temperature 20 seconds 1 minute, the last one cycle
5 minutes are kept the temperature at 72 DEG C. 
 Confirm that whether there is or not insertion DNA fragmentations in this way, as a result, selection confirms the plasmid of the amplified production of about 0.7kb, it will
It is named as pMJPC5.1. 
 Then, above-mentioned pMJPC17.1 and pMJPC5.1 are used into connection reagent respectively with being mixed after restriction enzyme XbaI cut-outs
Box ver.2 (precious wine makes generation) connections.Its DNA fragmentation after restriction enzyme SacI and restriction enzyme SphI cut-outs is passed through 0.75%
Agarose (SeaKem GTG agarose：FMCBioProducts is manufactured) gel electrophoresis detached, use QIAQuick
Gel Extraction Kit (QIAGEN manufactures) recycle the DNA fragmentation of about 1.75kb. 
 By inserted with TZ4 promoters between the 5 ' upstream regions and N-terminal region of the PC genes DNA fragmentation with contain
The DNA that the plasmid pKMB1 (Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2005-95169 bulletins) of sacB genes cuts off through SacI and SphI and prepared is mixed,
It is connected using connection kit ver.2 (precious wine makes generation).With the plasmid DNA transformation Escherichia coli (α plants of DH5) of gained.By this
The recombination bacillus coli that sample obtains is applied on the LB agar mediums containing 50 μ g/ml kanamycins and 50 μ g/ml X-Gal.It will
After the clone of formation white colony carries out Liquid Culture according to a conventional method on the culture medium, plasmid DNA purification.By with limitation
The Plasmid DNA of enzyme SacI and SphI cut-out gained, it is thus identified that the Insert Fragment of about 1.75kb is named as pMJPC17.2. 
 (C) PC enhances the making of strain 
 Using pMJPC17.2 Plasmid DNA by Calcium Chloride Method (Journal of Molecular Biology, 53,
159,1970) it is converted, is prepared again by JM110 plants of Escherichia coli after converting for converting brevibacterium flavum MJ233/ Δs
LDH (the bacterial strains that LDH activity reduces：Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication 2005-95169) Plasmid DNA.LDH plants of brevibacterium flavum MJ233/ Δs
Conversion by electrical pulse method (Res.Microbiol., Vol.144, p.181~185,1993) carry out, by the transformant of gained
It is applied to LBG agar mediums [tryptone 10g, yeast extract 5g, NaCl 5g, grape containing 25 μ g/ml kanamycins
Sugared 20g and agar 15g are dissolved in 1L distilled water] on. 
 For the bacterial strain grown on the culture medium, since pMJPC17.2 is in MJ233 plants of thalline of brevibacterium flavum
The not plasmid of reproducible, so being sent out between same gene on the PC genes of the plasmid and brevibacterium flavum MJ233 pnca gene groups
Homologous recombination is given birth to, the result is that the kalamycin resistance gene and sacB genes from the plasmid should insert the gene
Group. 
 Next, above-mentioned homologous recombination strain is carried out Liquid Culture in the LBG culture mediums containing 25 μ g/ml kanamycins.
The culture solution that will be equivalent to about 1,000,000 thalline is applied to the LBG culture mediums containing 10% sucrose.As a result dozens of bacterium is obtained
Strain, it is believed that their sacB genes after the 2nd homologous recombination are lost, and sucrose insensitive is accordingly changed into.The bacterium being achieved in that
Be included in strain its PC gene upstream insert the sources pMJPC17.2 TZ4 promoters bacterial strain and to reply be wild type
Bacterial strain. 
 PCR reactions are directly used in by the thalline that Liquid Culture obtains is carried out with LBG culture mediums, PC genes is detected, thus may be used
To easily verify that PC genes are promoter substituted type or wild type.Use the PCR amplification for TZ4 promoters and PC genes
Primer (sequence number 8 and sequence number 9) analyzed, the DNA fragmentation of 678bp should be confirmed for promoter substituted type.It uses
It states method to analyze the bacterial strain for becoming sucrose insensitive, as a result selects the bacterial strain for inserting TZ4 promoters, by the bacterial strain
It is named as brevibacterium flavum MJ233/PC-5/ Δs LDH. 
 <Using the preparation of the succinic acid fermentation broth of fermentation tank> 
 (A) seed culture 
 100ml culture mediums, 121 DEG C of heat sterilizations 20 minutes are packed into the conical flask of 500ml.The group of the culture medium
As urea：4g, ammonium sulfate：14g, potassium dihydrogen phosphate：0.5g, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate 0.5g, bitter salt：0.5g, seven water
Close ferrous sulfate：20mg, manganese sulfate hydrate：20mg, D-Biotin：200 μ g, thiamine hydrochloride：200 μ g, yeast extract：
1g, casamino acid：1g is dissolved in distilled water, and is adjusted to 1000ml.It is cooled to room temperature, what addition sterilized in advance
50% glucose solution 4ml is inoculated with LDH plants of the brevibacterium flavum MJ233/PC-5/ Δs of above-mentioned structure, is vibrated at 30 DEG C
(160rpm) is cultivated 16 hours. 
 (B) main culture 
 The culture medium 2.0L formed as follows is fitted into 5L fermentation tanks, 121 DEG C of heat sterilizations 20 minutes.Described group becomes sulphur
Sour ammonium：3.0g, 85% phosphoric acid：6.7g, potassium chloride：4.9g, bitter salt：1.5g, green vitriol：120mg, sulphur
Sour manganese hydrate：120mg, corn steep liquor (manufacture of prince's cornstarch society) 30.0g, 10N potassium hydroxide aqueous solution：11.0g, defoaming
Agent (CE457：Japanese grease manufacture)：2.5g is dissolved in distilled water, and is adjusted. 
 After being cooled to room temperature, it is 7.0 that 28% ammonium hydroxide adjustment pH, which is added, then adds the D- biologies of advance filtration sterilization
Element, each 0.2g/L aqueous solutions 15ml of thiamine hydrochloride and the 720g/L aqueous sucrose solution 110ml to sterilize in advance, are added thereto
Above-mentioned seed culture fluid 100ml is kept the temperature at 30 DEG C.PH is kept not become 7.2 hereinafter, being every point in ventilation using 28% ammonium hydroxide
Clock 3.0L, counter-pressure 0.05MPa, stirring start main culture under conditions of being 750 turns per minute. 
 After the oxygen concentration of dissolving is substantially reduced to 0, raising is started again at, when reaching 1ppm, adds 72% to sterilize in advance
Aqueous sucrose solution about 5.3g, is again lowered to 0.The oxygen concentration dissolved every time increases again just adds sucrose water with the aforedescribed process
Solution is repeated, and continues to culture after starting 19 hours. 
 (C) succinic acid reaction of formation 
 By 85% phosphoric acid：1.6g, bitter salt：1.1g, green vitriol：43mg, manganese sulfate hydrate：
43mg, 10N potassium hydroxide aqueous solution：2.86g is dissolved in distilled water, and after being adjusted to 42ml, 121 DEG C of heat sterilizations handle 20 points
Clock is fabricated to reaction enrichment medium. 
 The above-mentioned reaction enrichment medium of room temperature will be cooled to：42ml and the 720g/L aqueous sucrose solutions to sterilize in advance：
530ml, aqua sterilisa：Each 0.2g/L aqueous solutions of 1.2L, the D-Biotin of advance filtration sterilization, thiamine hydrochloride：20ml, by upper
It states the main obtained culture solution 675ml that cultivates to be added in the fermentation tank of 5L, starts to react.It is 40 DEG C, speed of agitator in reaction temperature
Pass through neutralizer (ammonium hydrogen carbonate for per minute 150, pH：171g, 28% ammonium hydroxide：354g, distilled water：Gradually addition tune 529g)
It is whole be 7.35 under conditions of the reaction was continued, stop reaction when the remaining sucrose in reaction solution becomes 0.1g/L or less. 
 (15000G, 5 minutes) processing is centrifuged to the reaction solution being prepared, obtains supernatant (hereinafter, sometimes
It is recorded as succinic acid fermentation broth).It is given in Table 2 below the composition analysis result of the supernatant. 
 [table 2] 
 2 succinic acid fermentation broth of table forms 
 
 
 
 
 
 Product 
 Cumulative concentration (g/L) 
 Cumulative concentration (weight %) 
 
 
 Succinic acid 
 91.3 
 8.65 
 
 
 Malic acid 
 9.8 
 0.93 
 
 
 Pyruvic acid 
 0.5 
 0.05 
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 13.2 
 1.25 
 
 
 Fumaric acid 
 2.7 
 0.26 
 
 
 α-ketoglutaric acid 
 1.1 
 0.10 
 
 
 α -one base valines 
 1.1 
 0.10 
 
 
 Alanine 
 2.5 
 0.24 
 
 
 Valine 
 0.8 
 0.08 
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 0.1 
 0.01 
 
 
 Trehalose 
 1.2 
 0.11 
 
 
 Protein 
 1.2 
 0.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 (density：1.056g/ml) 
 The analysis of organic acid and carbohydrate is implemented with the high performance liquid chromatography of following equal conditions. 
 Column：Letter and Chemical Co., Ltd manufacture ULTRON PS-80H 8.0mm I.D. × 30cm 
 Temperature：60℃ 
 Eluent：0.1%- high chloro acid solutions 1.0mL/min 
 Injection：3μl 
 Detection：RI detectors or UV detectors 
 Malic acid detection limit：100ppm 
 Reference example 2 
 I.e. from the aqueous solution of fatty race's dicarboxylic acids obtaining as described above, being obtained by the raw material from biomass resource
Succinic acid fermentation broth manufactures succinic acid. 
 <Protonate process> 
 98% sulfuric acid is added in above-mentioned succinic acid fermentation broth 1500g, adjustment pH is 2.5.Here, 98% sulfuric acid adds
Amount is 150g. 
 <Abstraction process> 
 Use the static mixer (Noritake 1/4 (1)-N40-174-0 (internal diameter Φ 5mm, component count 24)) of jacketed
With 3 slot type settlers of the jacketed that each slot is 600ml, 400ml, 300ml, the butanedioic acid aqueous solution after sulfuric acid is added and first
Ethyl ketone (hereinafter sometimes referred to simply as MEK) solution mixing, by Liquid liquid Separation, continuously extracts succinic acid. 
 That is, being added to butanedioic acid aqueous solution 1650g and in advance the 10% aqueous MEK solution 825g (MEK solution (weights of water
Amount)/butanedioic acid aqueous solution (weight)=0.5 (w/w)) be supplied to respectively with the speed of 20g/ minutes, 10g/ minutes it is quiet
In state mixer, temperature is adjusted by flowing into 30 DEG C of warm water to chuck in the static mixer, by the suspension of extraction to 3
It is supplied in 1st slot of slot type settler, which adjusts temperature, Liquid liquid Separation, from the 1st by flowing into 30 DEG C of warm water to chuck
The bottom continuous drawing raffinate phase of slot. 
 The weir dike between phase overflow (overflow) the 1st slot and the 2nd slot is extracted, the 2nd slot is supplied in.In 2nd slot, make nothing
The insoluble component that method detaches in the 1st slot is deposited to bottom, and clear extraction phase overflow is only made to cross the weir between the 2nd slot and the 3rd slot
Dike is simultaneously supplied in the 3rd slot.In turn, in the 3rd slot, clear extraction phase overflow, recycling is made to extract phase near liquid interface, finally
Recycling obtains extraction phase 688g, raffinate phase 1613g, interphase 173g.The PTFE of 0.5 μm of mesh of interphase is film-made filter
Pressure filtration, to which recycling obtains clarified solution 172g. 
 <Continuous extraction> 
 Using the continuous extraction column of the stirred type of the jacketed of internal diameter Φ 20mm, height 2m (theoretical cam curve is 10 pieces), use
10% aqueous MEK1613g (MEK solution (weight)/butanedioic acid aqueous solution (weight)=1.0 (w/w)) is to what is recycled
Raffinate phase 1613g is continuously extracted. 
 Here, raffinate phase is supplied from top of tower with the speed of 200 Grams Per Hours, from bottom of tower with the speed stream of 200 Grams Per Hours
Enter in advance to be adjusted to water content the MEK solution of 10 weight %.Continuous phase is raffinate phase, and dispersed phase is MEK phases (light liquid dispersion).
It it is 30 DEG C by the temperature control of extraction column in addition, by the warm water that circulates in chuck.Final recycling obtains extraction phase 1777g. 
 The extraction of recycling mutually merges with the clarified solution recycled with mixer-settler, the liquid of obtained fatty race's dicarboxylic acids
Add up to 2637g.It is formed and is analyzed, the following table 3 is as a result shown in.It is real with the high performance liquid chromatography with 2 equal conditions of table
Apply the analysis of organic acid and carbohydrate. 
 [table 3] 
 The extraction of table 3 is mutually formed with the mixed solution of clarified solution 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ingredient 
 It forms (weight %) 
 
 
 Succinic acid 
 4.91 
 
 
 Malic acid 
 0.19 
 
 
 Pyruvic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 0.71 
 
 
 Fumaric acid 
 0.15 
 
 
 α-ketoglutaric acid 
 0.01 
 
 
 α -one base valines 
 0.02 
 
 
 Alanine 
 0.00 
 
 
 Valine 
 0.00 
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Trehalose 
 0.00 
 
 
 Protein 
 0.01 
 
 
 MEK 
 80.8 
 
 
 Water 
 13.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 <Distillation> 
 The extraction of recycling mutually substantially removes MEK by continuous still.Here, distillation distillate is as MEK and water
Azeotrope compositions, the i.e. 11 aqueous MEK of weight % are recovered, but according to the concentrating degree of kettle raffinate, succinic acid is possible to be precipitated.Cause
This, the water of 190g is mutually added relative to 2637g extractions, so that distillation distillate becomes the aqueous MEK of 11 weight %, kettle raffinate becomes
30 weight % succinic acid solutions. 
 It is distilled using normal pressure continuous distillation plant, Φ 5mm ring packings is filled in the continuous distillation plant to 30cm high
Degree, the round-bottomed flask and return channel of packed column and 500ml with internal diameter Φ 40mm.Make under infinite reflux after stablizing in system,
With reflux ratio for 1, continuous still is carried out.Kettle raffinate after distillation is 432g.In addition, the result of its composition analysis is shown in the following table 4. 
 [table 4] 
 The composition of kettle raffinate after the distillation of table 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ingredient 
 It forms (weight %) 
 
 
 Succinic acid 
 30.0 
 
 
 Malic acid 
 1.14 
 
 
 Pyruvic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 4.31 
 
 
 Fumaric acid 
 1.14 
 
 
 α-ketoglutaric acid 
 0.05 
 
 
 α -one base valines 
 0.14 
 
 
 Alanine 
 0.01 
 
 
 Valine 
 0.01 
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Trehalose 
 0.00 
 
 
 Protein 
 0.08 
 
 
 MEK 
 0.03 
 
 
 
 
 
 <Crystallization> 
 The liquid that MEK has been distilled off is transferred in the removable flasks of 500ml of jacketed, by chuck under stirring
In lead to warm water and keep the temperature at 80 DEG C.Thereafter, the circulation thermostat controlled using tape program, chuck will be flowed to 1 hour
Warm water be cooled to 20 DEG C, to succinic acid carry out cooling crystallization processing, further cured 1 hour at 20 DEG C after reaching 20 DEG C.It will
The slurry vacuum filter of gained, isolates crystallization mother liquor. 
 In turn, the wet cake of gained crystallization object cold water 250g is washed, recovery and rinsing liquid obtains with succinic acid being main
The wet cake of ingredient.In turn, the wet cake of gained is dried under the conditions of 80 DEG C of maximum limit pressures using vacuum drier, it is final to return
Receipts obtain the succinic acid of 114g.Composition analysis is carried out to the succinic acid of gained, is as a result shown in the following table 5.With with 2 equal conditions of table
High performance liquid chromatography implements the analysis of organic acid and carbohydrate. 
 [table 5] 
 The composition for the succinic acid that table 5 obtains 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ingredient 
 It forms (weight %) 
 
 
 Succinic acid 
 95.7 
 
 
 Malic acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 Pyruvic acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 0.1 
 
 
 Fumaric acid 
 3.3 
 
 
 α-ketoglutaric acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 α -one base valines 
 0.0 
 
 
 Alanine 
 0.0 
 
 
 Valine 
 0.0 
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 Trehalose 
 0.0 
 
 
 Protein 
 18ppm 
 
 
 MEK 
 0.0 
 
 
 Water 
 0.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 Succinic acid yield 84% 
 Crystallization mother liquor and cleaning solution are mixed, the recovered liquid of 562g is obtained, composition is as shown in table 6 below.With same with table 2
The high performance liquid chromatography of condition implements the analysis of organic acid and carbohydrate. 
 [table 6] 
 The composition of 6 recovered liquid of table 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ingredient 
 It forms (weight %) 
 
 
 Succinic acid 
 3.66 
 
 
 Malic acid 
 0.87 
 
 
 Pyruvic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 3.29 
 
 
 Fumaric acid 
 0.01 
 
 
 α-ketoglutaric acid 
 0.04 
 
 
 α -one base valines 
 0.10 
 
 
 Alanine 
 0.01 
 
 
 Valine 
 0.01 
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Trehalose 
 0.00 
 
 
 Protein 
 0.06 
 
 
 MEK 
 0.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reference example 3 
 <Protonation> 
 98% sulfuric acid is added in above-mentioned succinic acid fermentation broth 1384g, pH reaches 2.5.Here, 98% sulfuric acid additive amount is
138g.It is added in the liquid of the protonation and is equivalent to the half recovered liquid 281g recycled in reference example 2, adjustment succinic acid is water-soluble
Liquid 1803g. 
 <Extraction> 
 With method identical with reference example 2, butanedioic acid aqueous solution is extracted using 10% aqueous MEK.Mixing sedimentation
In device, divided respectively with 20g/ by butanedioic acid aqueous solution and relative to the 10% aqueous MEK that butanedioic acid aqueous solution is 0.5 times of weight
It supplies within clock, 10g/ minutes, pressure filtration is carried out to the interphase of recycling, be mutually further 1.0 with relative to raffinate to raffinate phase
10% aqueous MEK of times of weight carries out multi-stage countercurrent and continuously extracts.As a result, recycling obtains extraction phase 2882g, raffinate phase 1593g.
Its composition is as follows. 
 <Distillation> 
 It is distilled with method identical with reference example 2, recycling obtains succinic acid concentrate 438g.It forms such as the following table 7
It is shown.With the analysis for implementing organic acid and carbohydrate with the high performance liquid chromatography of 2 equal conditions of table. 
 [table 7] 
 The composition of 7 succinic acid concentrate of table 
 
 
 
 <Crystallization> 
 Crystallization is carried out with method identical with reference example 2, recycling obtains succinic acid 113g and as crystallization mother liquor and cleaning
The recovered liquid 568g of the mixed liquor of liquid.It has been given in Table 8 below the composition of the succinic acid of gained, has been given in Table 9 below gained
Recovered liquid composition.With the analysis for implementing organic acid and carbohydrate with the high performance liquid chromatography of 2 equal conditions of table. 
 [table 8] 
 The composition for the succinic acid that table 8 obtains 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ingredient 
 It forms (weight %) 
 
 
 Succinic acid 
 95.9 
 
 
 Malic acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 Pyruvic acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 0.1 
 
 
 Fumaric acid 
 3.1 
 
 
 α-ketoglutaric acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 α -one base valines 
 0.0 
 
 
 Alanine 
 0.0 
 
 
 Valine 
 0.0 
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 0.0 
 
 
 Trehalose 
 0.0 
 
 
 Protein 
 18ppm 
 
 
 MEK 
 0.0 
 
 
 Water 
 0.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 The succinic acid of recycling/newly supplied succinic acid：113 × 0.959/ (1384 × 0.0865)=91% 
 [table 9] 
 The composition of 9 recovered liquid of table 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ingredient 
 It forms (weight %) 
 
 
 Succinic acid 
 3.63 
 
 
 Malic acid 
 0.95 
 
 
 Pyruvic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 4.62 
 
 
 Fumaric acid 
 0.01 
 
 
 α-ketoglutaric acid 
 0.04 
 
 
 α -one base valines 
 0.11 
 
 
 Alanine 
 0.01 
 
 
 Valine 
 0.01 
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 0.00 
 
 
 Trehalose 
 0.00 
 
 
 Protein 
 0.06 
 
 
 MEK 
 0.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 <It is highly purified> 
 The thick butanedioic acid aqueous solution for preparing 30wt% by the coarse crystallization obtained as described above at 80 DEG C, then relative to amber
Powdered activated carbon Diahope 8ED (Calgon Mitsubishi Chemical Cor activated through reagent of 0.3wt% amounts is added in acid
Manufacture).Implement 2 hours activated carbons in 80 DEG C in the case where stirring with 200rpm using Three-One Motor to handle. 
 After 80 DEG C filter out activated carbon, by the butanedioic acid aqueous solution input SUS316 500ml induction stirring high pressures of gained
In kettle, in 5%Pd/C (and light catalogue 326-81672, catalytic amount：It is 0.06wt% relative to succinic acid) in the presence of, in hydrogen
Implement hydrogen processing under conditions of pressure is 0.8MPa, reaction temperature is 80 DEG C, the reaction time is 3 hours.As a result, in thick succinic acid
Contained is completely converted into succinic acid relative to the fumaric acid that succinic acid is 1.3 weight %.After reaction terminating, catalyst is filtered out.
Hydrogen treatment fluid is almost without peculiar smell. 
 Ion-exchange treatment [cation exchange resin is carried out at 80 DEG C to the hydrogen treated butanedioic acid aqueous solution
(Diaion SK1B-H (Mitsubishi chemical Co., Ltd's manufacture)：H-type)], removal it is micro containing cation. 
 The butanedioic acid aqueous solution after ion-exchange treatment is cooled to 20 DEG C with about 90 minutes under stiring, and then at 20 DEG C
It is kept for 1 hour, to make crystallization be precipitated.By filtering, the succinic acid of precipitation is recycled, it is true at 70 DEG C after being crystallized with cold water wash
Sky is 12 hours dry, obtains the tasteless succinic acid (YI=-1) of white. 
 In obtained succinic acid, Na, K, Mg, Ca, NH 4 The concentration of ion is all in 1ppm hereinafter, sulphur atom content is less than
1ppm, nitrogen atom content 2ppm.In addition, the succinic acid for preparing gained is the butanedioic acid aqueous solution of 3.0wt% concentration, day is used
The mean light absorbency of 250~300nm of the wave spectrum that vertical spectrophotometer Hitachi UV-3500 is measured is 0.01 or less. 
 
 
 Embodiment 1 
 <Polyester polyol manufactures> 
 By succinic acid that malic acid content is 0.2ppm (the refined succinic acid manufactured by fermentation method to prepare) 260g (2.2
Mole) and as polyalcohol 3- methyl-1s, (2.5 moles) of 5- pentanediols 296g input be equipped with thermometer, induction stirrer,
In the 1L four-hole boiling flasks of oil water separator, dropping funel with cooler.Thereafter, it is decompressed to 30Torr, restores pressure with nitrogen,
It is repeated several times the operation, carries out the nitrogen displacement in reactor. 
 Reaction mixture is warming up to 145 DEG C under stirring, stirring 30 minutes is maintained in the temperature.Due to starting to occur at this time
Water is generated, so the water that removal generates since the oil water separator with cooler.Thereafter 220 DEG C were warming up to about 1 hour,
Then 15ml toluene is added from dropping funel, and then is decompressed to about 600Torr, toluene is returned by the oil water separator with cooler
Stream, to continue to generate the removal of water. 
 Addition tetraisopropoxy titanium (TPT) 5wt/vol% toluene solutions 0.53ml after decompression starts 15 minutes.Thereafter, really
Recognize acid value to become smaller than equal to 0.50KOH mg/g, terminates reaction. 
 After reaction terminating, 160 DEG C are cooled to, in turn, 20Torr is finally decompressed to and is completely distilled off removing toluene, measure flask
The hydroxyl value of content.In order to form the polyester polyol that number-average molecular weight is 2000, when hydroxyl value is more than 56.0, further remove
Glycol, and when less than 56.0, addition increases and decreases hydroxyl value to 56.0 raw polyol, and thermal agitation random time is crossed in 220 DEG C,
Implement depolymerization reaction, being adjusted makes hydroxyl value become 56.0 or so.As a result, it is 54.9 (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight to produce hydroxyl value
2044) polyester polyol.The APHA of obtained polyester polyol is 20. 
 Hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight described herein is that polyalcohol is considered as glycol, is calculated as follows. 
 Molecular weight [g/mol]/hydroxyl value [mgKOH/g] × 1000 × 2 of hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight=KOH 
 <Polyester polyol NMR assay methods> 
 Polyester polyol：43.3mg samples are dissolved in 0.7ml deuterochloroforms (containing 0.05v/vTMS), are then transferred into outer
In the NMR coupons of diameter 5mm.The AVANCE400 spectrometers manufactured using Bruker societies, in room temperature measuring 1H-NMR wave spectrums.Change
The benchmark of displacement study is using tms signal as 0.00ppm.The measurement of malic acid amount in the succinic acid unit of polyester polyol
In, detect the peak of malate in 5.43ppm.In S/N=3, detection limit is 500ppm relative to succinic acid unit. 
 Therefore, malic acid unit is 0.2ppm relative to the inventory of raw material succinic acid unit, during above-mentioned NMR is measured,
Since malic acid detection is limited to 500ppm, so not detecting malic acid unit. 
 <Polyurethane manufacture 1> 
 The polyester polyol manufactured in aforementioned manners is put into the removable flasks of 1L (according to the calculated number of hydroxyl value to be divided equally
Son amount is 2000 or so) 102.2g, it is set as heating in 55 DEG C of oil bath flask to be immersed in temperature, while N is added, N- diformazans
Base formamide (DMF) makes it dissolve.Start to stir with about 100rpm, and then add the 1,4-butanediol 4.51g as chain extender,
Stannous octoate 0.024g is added dropwise. 
 Next, '-diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) is added dropwise in the speed with reacting liquid temperature no more than 70 DEG C.Thereafter,
MDI is added dropwise at leisure and carries out chain extension, is finally added to the MDI of 25.3g (1.01 equivalents of polyol hydroxyls).It is measured by GPC,
Confirm that weight average molecular weight is more than 100,000, terminate reaction, obtains the DMF solution for the polyurethane that solid constituent is 30%.Gained gathers
The weight average molecular weight of urethane is 13.9 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=2.1, as a result meets target. 
 <Polyurethane NMR assay methods> 
 Polyurethane：About 40mg samples are weighed in the NMR coupons of outer diameter 5mm, and about 1.0ml DMF-d7 dissolvings are added.Make
The AVANCE400 spectrometers manufactured with Bruker societies, in room temperature measuring 1H-NMR wave spectrums.The benchmark of chemical shift is by DMF
The signal of methyl downfield side is set as 2.91ppm.In the measurement of malic acid amount in the succinic acid unit of polyurethane,
5.46ppm detects the peak of malate.In S/N=3, detection limit is 300ppm relative to succinic acid unit.Therefore, apple
Acid unit is 0.2ppm relative to the inventory of raw material succinic acid unit, during above-mentioned NMR is measured, since malic acid detection is limited to
300ppm, so not detecting malic acid unit. 
 <The making of polyurethane evaluation of physical property sample> 
 Polyurethane solutions obtained by use are coated with uniform film thickness on polyethylene film with scraper, are dried with drying machine, obtained
Polyurethane film implements tensile strength test using the assay method of above-mentioned film physical property to the film.Carbamate film physical property
Fracture strength is 7.9MPa, elongation at break 1270%, and elasticity modulus is low, with the physical property that elongation is very excellent. 
 Comparative example 1 
 The content of malic acid is used (to be used using maleic anhydride as raw material system for the succinic acid of 5000ppm as raw material
Succinic acid make, commercially available) 260g (2.2 moles) and the 3- methyl-1s as polyalcohol, 5- pentanediols 296g (2.5 moles),
The polyester polyol that hydroxyl value is 55.1 (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight 2036) is manufactured with the polyester polyol manufacturing method of above-mentioned record.
The APHA of the polyester polyol is 20.NMR measure as a result, malic acid unit, i.e. cross-linked structure relative to succinic acid unit
For 0.47 mole of %. 
 Using above-mentioned polyester polyol 101.8g as raw material, 1,4-butanediol 4.51g, diphenyl-methane are used as chain extender
Diisocyanate (MDI) 25.2g (1.01 equivalents of hydroxyl), the manufacturing method manufacture that 1 is manufactured with the polyurethane of above-mentioned record gather
Urethane. 
 The weight average molecular weight of the polyurethane of gained is 410,000, molecular weight distribution mw/mn=3.2, molecular weight, molecular weight distribution
All become larger other than expecting.NMR measure as a result, malic acid unit, i.e. cross-linked structure are relative to succinic acid unit
0.52 mole of %.In addition, the fracture strength of carbamate film is 9.9MPa, elongation at break 910%, elasticity modulus is high,
With the low physical property of elongation. 
 Comparative example 2 
 It is the succinic acid of 1700ppm (using to using maleic anhydride as raw material system to use malic acid content as raw material
The succinic acid made is refined prepared succinic acid) 260g (2.2 moles) and the 3- methyl-1s as polyalcohol, 5- pentanediols
296g (2.5 moles), it is 54.1 (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight to manufacture hydroxyl value with the polyester polyol manufacturing method of above-mentioned record
2074) polyester polyol.The APHA of the polyester polyol is 20.NMR measure as a result, malic acid unit, i.e. crosslinking tie
Structure is 0.16 mole of % relative to succinic acid unit. 
 Using above-mentioned polyester polyol 103.7g as raw material, 1,4-butanediol 4.51g, diphenyl-methane are used as chain extender
Diisocyanate (MDI) 25.3g (1.01 equivalents of hydroxyl), the manufacturing method manufacture that 1 is manufactured with the polyurethane of above-mentioned record gather
Urethane. 
 The weight average molecular weight of obtained polyurethane is 320,000, molecular weight distribution mw/mn=2.8, molecular weight, molecular weight distribution
All become larger other than expecting.NMR measure as a result, malic acid unit, i.e. cross-linked structure are relative to succinic acid unit
0.19 mole of %.In addition, carbamate solution weight average molecular weight in film is increased to 490,000 extremely, commented so interrupting
Valence. 
 
 
 Embodiment 2 
 It is that the succinic acid of 0.2ppm (refines the succinic acid manufactured by fermentation method to use malic acid content as raw material
To prepare) 71g (0.6 mole), adipic acid (commercially available product) 88g (0.6 mole) and the 3- methyl-1s as polyalcohol, 5- pentanediols
162g (1.4 moles), operates similarly with example 1 in addition to this, and manufacture hydroxyl value is 61.0 (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight 1839)
Polyester polyol.The APHA of the polyester polyol is 25, be can be obtained if even if being used in mixed way with the dicarboxylic acids from oil
The few polyester polyol of color. 
 
 
 Embodiment 3 
 The succinic acid that malic acid content is 500ppm is used (to add apple to the succinic acid manufactured by fermentation method as raw material
It is prepared by acid) 160g (1.4 moles) and the 3- methyl-1s as polyalcohol, 5- pentanediols 179g (1.5 moles), by reaction temperature
The upper limit be set as about 190 DEG C, in addition to this with method same as Example 1 manufacture hydroxyl value be 56.9 (hydroxyl value convert molecules
The polyester polyol of amount 1972). 
 <Polyurethane manufacture 2> 
 The polyester polyol manufactured in aforementioned manners is put into the removable flasks of 1L (according to the calculated number of hydroxyl value to be divided equally
Son amount is 2000 or so) 56.8g is decompressed to 20Torr, is immersed in 100 DEG C of oil bath after carrying out the displacement of 3 nitrogen, it is small to carry out 1
When be dehydrated.It is temporarily cooling after 1 hour, restore pressure with nitrogen.Polyester polyol water content at this time is 110ppm.It connects
It, flask is immersed in 60 DEG C of oil bath and is heated, while n,N-dimethylacetamide (DMAc) is added and makes it dissolve.With about
100rpm starts to stir, and then is added as the 1,4-butanediol 2.55g of chain extender, and stannous octoate 0.012g is added dropwise.At this time
Water content adds up to 0.025g (0.0014 mole) in polyester polyols alcohol and solvent. 
 In the reaction of polyurethane-reinforcement, due to water consumption MDI contained in system, so being set as considering water content
MDI additive amounts.The water contained by the dewatered water content of polyalcohol and the solvent used is measured, it (is opposite to calculate MDI additive amounts
In the MDI equivalents of reactive hydrogen), contained in the water content relative to the hydroxyl value and measurement of polyester polyol and chain extender
Reactive hydrogen number is 100%, to add MDI. 
 That is, the MDI equivalents relative to reactive hydrogen are indicated with following formula. 
 MDI equivalents=(NCO [mol])/(polyester polyol hydroxyl value [mol]+chain extender hydroxyl value relative to reactive hydrogen
The moisture [mol] in moisture [mol]+solvent in [mol]+polyester polyol) 
 '-diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) is added dropwise in speed with reacting liquid temperature no more than 70 DEG C.Thereafter, it drips at leisure
Add MDI chain extensions, is finally added to the MDI of 14.4g (1.00 equivalents of reactive hydrogen).It is measured by GPC, confirms that weight average molecular weight is super
100,000 are crossed, reaction is terminated, obtains the DMAc solution for the polyurethane that solid constituent is 30%. 
 The weight average molecular weight of obtained polyurethane is 18.8 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=2.0.In addition, carbamic acid
The fracture strength of ester film physical property is 8.5MPa.'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) is used in addition, being removed in above-mentioned polyurethane-reinforcement
14.5g (1.01 equivalents of reactive hydrogen) is manufactured in external application method identical with polyurethane autofrettage 2, in this case gained
The weight average molecular weight of polyurethane is 25.8 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=2.2, does not cause gelation, is readily available
The polyurethane of desired molecular weight. 
 
 
 Embodiment 4 
 It is that the succinic acid of 0.2ppm (refines the succinic acid manufactured by fermentation method to use malic acid content as raw material
To adjust) 160g (1.4 moles) and the 3- methyl-1s as polyalcohol, 5- pentanediols 178g (1.5 moles), by reaction temperature
The upper limit is set as 190 DEG C, and it is 52.6 (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight to manufacture hydroxyl value with method same as Example 1 in addition to this
2133) polyester polyol. 
 Using polyester polyol 60.2g as raw material, 1,4-butanediol 2.54g, diphenyl-methane two are used as chain extender
Isocyanates (MDI) 14.2g (1.00 equivalents of reactive hydrogen), the manufacturing method manufacture that 2 are manufactured with the polyurethane of above-mentioned record gather
Urethane.Water content at this time adds up to 0.014g (0.00078 mole) in polyester polyols alcohol and solvent.The polyurethane of gained
Weight average molecular weight be 16.0 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=2.0, as a result meet target.In addition, carbamate film object
Property fracture strength be 5.5MPa. 
 In addition, (being worked as the 1.01 of reactive hydrogen using '-diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) 14.3g in above-mentioned polyurethane-reinforcement
Amount), 2 identical methods manufacture polyurethane are manufactured with the polyurethane of above-mentioned record in addition to this, in this case the poly- ammonia of gained
The weight average molecular weight of ester is 20.1 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=2.0, does not cause gelation, has been readily available and has wished
The polyurethane of the molecular weight of prestige. 
 Comparative example 3 
 As raw material use malic acid content less than detection limit succinic acid (to malic acid content be 0.2ppm by fermenting
The succinic acid of method manufacture further carries out that crystallization is refined, to malic acid content relative to succinic acid the detection of LC-MS limit with
Under, use such succinic acid) 160g (1.4 moles) and the 3- methyl-1s as polyalcohol, (1.5 rub 5- pentanediols 177g
You), the upper limit of reaction temperature is set as 190 DEG C, it is 55.2 to manufacture hydroxyl value with method same as Example 1 in addition to this
The polyester polyol of (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight 2033). 
 Using polyester polyol 58.9g as raw material, 1,4-butanediol 2.61g, diphenyl-methane two are used as chain extender
Isocyanates (MDI) 14.7g (1.00 equivalents of reactive hydrogen), the manufacturing method manufacture that 2 are manufactured with the polyurethane of above-mentioned record gather
Urethane.The water content in system adds up to 0.028g (0.0016 mole) in polyester polyols alcohol and solvent at this time. 
 The weight average molecular weight of obtained polyurethane is 14.6 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=2.1, and molecular weight is difficult to rise
It is high.In addition, the fracture strength of carbamate film is 5.3MPa, obtained polyurethane does not have sufficient mechanical strength. 
 Comparative example 4 
 The succinic acid that malic acid content is 5000ppm is used (to add apple to the succinic acid manufactured by fermentation method as raw material
Tartaric acid uses the succinic acid through adjusting in this way) 159g (1.4 moles) and the 3- methyl-1s as polyalcohol, 5- pentanediols 178g
The upper limit of (1.5 moles), reaction temperature is 190 DEG C, and it is 56.3 to manufacture hydroxyl value with method same as Example 1 in addition to this
The polyester polyol of (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight 1993). 
 Using polyester polyol 60.7g as raw material, 1,4-butanediol 2.75g, diphenyl-methane two are used as chain extender
Isocyanates (MDI) 15.4g (1.00 equivalents of reactive hydrogen) manufactures 2 manufacturing method manufacture with the polyurethane with above-mentioned record
Polyurethane.The water content in system adds up to 0.025g (0.0014 mole) in polyester polyols alcohol and solvent at this time.Gained
The weight average molecular weight of polyurethane is 37.5 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=3.2, molecular weight, molecular weight distribution all expect with
Become larger outside.NMR measure as a result, the fracture strength of carbamate film be 14.4MPa. 
 In addition, (being worked as the 1.01 of reactive hydrogen using '-diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) 15.6g in above-mentioned polyurethane-reinforcement
Amount), when being manufactured in addition to this with identical method, gelation occurs for polyurethane. 
 That is, manufacturing polyester polyol using the succinic acid containing 5000ppm malic acid, then the case where manufacture polyurethane
Under, relative to the addition operating quantity of MDI, molecular weight increases significantly, also has the danger for causing gelation, as a result obtains and wishes
The polyurethanes of the molecular weight of prestige is had any problem. 
 
 
 Embodiment 3~4 and the result of comparative example 3~4 are listed in table 10. 
 [table 10] 
 
 
 
 
 
 Embodiment 5 
 <Polyester polyol manufacture 2> 
 By the succinic acid (to be refined to the succinic acid manufactured by fermentation method to prepare) that malic acid content is 0.2ppm
(0.9 mole) input peace of 170g (1.5 moles) and ethylene glycol 110g (1.8 moles) as polyalcohol and 1,4 butanediol 80g
Equipped with thermometer, induction stirrer, cooler 1L four-hole boiling flasks in.Thereafter, it is decompressed to 30Torr, restores pressure with nitrogen,
It is repeated several times the operation, carries out the nitrogen displacement in reactor. 
 Reaction mixture is warming up to 145 DEG C under stirring, stirring 30 minutes is maintained in the temperature.Due to starting to occur at this time
Water is generated, so the water that removal generates since cooler.Thereafter 190 DEG C were warming up to about 1 hour.Addition four is different after heating
Titanium propanolate (TPT) 5wt/vol% toluene solutions 0.35ml.The pressure of reactor is decreased to from normal pressure with about 2 hours
Excessive glycol is removed defined amount by 20Torr together with water.Thereafter acid value is less than or equal to terminate when 1.0KOH mg/g anti-
It answers. 
 After reaction terminating, 160 DEG C are cooled to, measures the hydroxyl value of flask contents.It is 2000 to form number-average molecular weight
Polyester polyol further remove glycol when hydroxyl value is big compared with 56.0, and when less than 56.0, addition increases hydroxyl value
The raw polyol for reducing to 56.0 crosses thermal agitation random time in 190 DEG C, implements depolymerization reaction, being adjusted makes hydroxyl value become
56.0 or so.As a result, producing the polyester polyol that hydroxyl value is 55.8 (hydroxyl value conversion molecular weight 2011). 
 Using polyester polyol 58.8g as raw material, 1,4-butanediol 2.63g, diphenyl-methane two are used as chain extender
Isocyanates (MDI) 14.8g (1.00 equivalents of reactive hydrogen), DMF is used as solvent, in addition to this with the poly- ammonia of above-mentioned record
The manufacturing method of ester manufacture 2 manufactures polyurethane.The water content in system adds up in polyester polyols alcohol and solvent at this time
0.029g (0.0016 mole).The weight average molecular weight of the polyurethane of gained is 19.8 ten thousand, molecular weight distribution Mw/Mn=2.0, knot
Fruit meets target, and the abnormal of molecular weight does not occur and increases, manufactures excellent in stability. 
 As can be known from the above results, as shown in this comparative example, it is being more than in 3.7 organic acid contents below by pKa value
The dicarboxylic acids of 1000ppm manufactures polyester polyol as raw material, and in the case of use polyester polyol manufacture polyurethane,
Since manufactured polyester polyol and polyurethane have cross-linked structure, so the cross-linked structure causes to react in polyisocyanates
Shi Fasheng gelations, molecular weight increase extremely, thus are difficult to control reaction.Moreover, it is found that the physical property of the polyurethane of gained is hard,
Elongation is low. 
 In addition, it is found that as shown in this comparative example, pKa value (is being less than inspection in 3.7 organic acid contents below for 0ppm
Survey limit) dicarboxylic acids manufacture polyester polyol as raw material, and in the case of using polyester polyol manufacture polyurethane, institute
The polyester polyol of manufacture and the molecular weight of polyurethane do not increase fully, and the mechanical strength of obtained polyurethane reduces. 
 On the other hand, it is known that, as shown in this embodiment, pKa value is being more than 0ppm in 3.7 organic acid contents below
And the dicarboxylic acids less than or equal to 1000ppm manufactures polyester polyol as raw material, and use the poly- ammonia of polyester polyol manufacture
In the case of ester, by moderately there is cross-linked structure in manufactured polyester polyol and polyurethane, to polyisocyanates
Easily controllable molecular weight etc. when reaction, and the polyurethane with sufficient mechanical strength can be obtained. 
 In the past, it for the polyester polyol for dicarboxyl acid starting material using succinic acid, is difficult to control in polyurethane reaction
Reaction, it is believed that the physical property using the polyurethane of the polyester polyol is hard, and elongation is low.However, this time, by will be certain specific
Succinic acid as raw material, it is especially surprising that can manufacture even if using succinic acid as raw material can control reaction, also have fill
The polyurethane for the mechanical strength divided. 
 It is described in detail by the present invention using specific mode, but it will be appreciated that without departing from the present invention
Intention and range, can make various changes and deform.In addition, the application is special based on the Japan submitted on March 31st, 2010
The invention of profit application (Japanese Patent Application 2010-082393), quotes entire contents by reference. 
 Industrial availability 
 Since the present invention from the polyurethane from biomass resource that the polyester polyol of biomass resource is raw material by
In easily controllable reaction, and its solution viscosity is low, so operability is good, is easy to be cast or is coated with, thus can use
In extensive polyurethane applications. 
 In addition, in characteristic, i.e. wearability, the resistance to deflection etc. that are maintained as the existing polyurethane from polyester polyol
While mechanical strength, due to from the excellent plant of the feature of environmental protection, so it can be expected that as substance extremely useful in industry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
