
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Novel L-tryptophan output protein variants and method for producing L-tryptophan using the same 
 
 Technical Field 
 The present disclosure relates to novel protein variants having tryptophan export activity, microorganisms expressing the protein variants that produce L-tryptophan, and methods of producing L-tryptophan using the microorganisms. 
 
 
 Background 
 Tryptophan, which is an essential amino acid, has been widely used as a raw material for feed additives, medicines (e.g., infusion solutions), health food materials, and the like. At present, a direct fermentation method using microorganisms is mainly used for producing L-tryptophan. 
 Previously, selected strains exhibiting resistance to analogues by chemical or physical mutation have been mainly used as microorganisms producing L-tryptophan. However, with the rapid development of the gene recombination technology and the identification of molecular level regulatory mechanisms in the 90 th century of the 20 th year, recombinant strains have been mainly used by using genetic engineering techniques.  
 Meanwhile, expression of genes capable of outputting specific amino acids has been helpful in increasing the yield of corresponding amino acids in microorganisms. Enhancement of the expression of the L-lysine export gene (lysE) in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium (genus Corynebacterium) has increased the yield of lysine (WO 9723597A 2). In addition, enhancement of the rhtC gene in E.coli (E.coli) has improved resistance to L-threonine and, at the same time, has also improved the yields of L-homoserine, L-threonine and L-leucine (EP 1013765A 1). In addition, patent No. EP1016710B1 discloses that the productivity of L-glutamic acid, L-lysine, L-threonine, L-alanine, L-histidine, L-proline, L-arginine, L-valine and L-isoleucine is improved by enhancing yahN, yeaS, yfiK and yggA genes, the functions of which have not been identified in E.coli. 
 However, export proteins showing specificity for L-tryptophan have not been reported until recently. Although the yddG gene of E.coli is known, it shows higher specificity for L-phenylalanine than for L-tryptophan (FEMS Microbiol Lett 275 (2007), 312 to 318). In addition, genes for export of L-tryptophan or aromatic amino acids have not been reported in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium, which are mainly used as strains for producing L-amino acids (J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol.20150Ay; 42 (5): 787 to 797).  
 
 
 Disclosure of Invention 
 [ technical problem ] 
 The inventors of the present disclosure have successfully expressed a novel tryptophan export protein specific for L-tryptophan in L-tryptophan-producing microorganisms, and as a result, they have found that L-tryptophan production is significantly improved. Furthermore, the ability to export the corresponding membrane proteins was further enhanced by the introduction of mutations, which have confirmed that L-tryptophan production was significantly increased. Thus, the present disclosure has been completed. 
 Technical scheme 
 It is an object of the present disclosure to provide protein variants having L-tryptophan output activity wherein at least one amino acid selected from the amino acids corresponding to amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with a hydrophobic or aliphatic amino acid. 
 It is another object of the present disclosure to provide polynucleotides encoding variants; and vectors comprising the polynucleotides. 
 It is a further object of the present disclosure to provide L-tryptophan-producing microorganisms that express protein variants. 
 It is yet another object of the present disclosure to provide a method for producing L-tryptophan comprising culturing a microorganism in a medium. 
 It is a further object of the present disclosure to provide the use of protein variants for increasing L-tryptophan production.  
 [ technical Effect ] 
 The inventors of the present disclosure have found a novel export gene specific for L-tryptophan, and have attempted to express the gene in L-tryptophan-producing microorganisms. As a result, they have confirmed that the microorganism can significantly increase the production amount of L-tryptophan compared to its parent strain in which the gene is not expressed, and have also found a protein variant encoded by the gene, which allows the microorganism to more significantly increase the production amount of L-tryptophan, thereby confirming that L-tryptophan can be efficiently produced therethrough. 
 
 
 Drawings 
 FIG. 1 shows tryptophan intracellular concentrations in modified strains CA04-8352 and CA04-8405 of Corynebacterium glutamicum (Corynebacterium glutamicum) in accordance with glucose consumption. 
 
 
 Detailed Description 
 Hereinafter, the present disclosure will be described in more detail. Meanwhile, each of the descriptions and embodiments disclosed in the present disclosure may be applied to each of the different descriptions and embodiments. In other words, all combinations of the various elements disclosed in the present disclosure are included within the scope of the present disclosure. Further, the scope of the present disclosure should not be limited by the detailed description provided below.  
 One aspect of the present disclosure provides a protein variant having L-tryptophan export ability, wherein the protein variant comprises at least one mutation in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1. 
 The mutation may include a mutation in which at least one amino acid selected from 79 th amino acid to 83 rd amino acid from the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with a different amino acid. 
 The protein variant may be a protein variant having L-tryptophan export activity in which at least one amino acid selected from amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is replaced with a different amino acid. In particular, the protein variant may be a protein variant having L-tryptophan export activity in which at least one amino acid selected from amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with a hydrophobic amino acid or an aliphatic amino acid. 
 As used herein, the term "L-tryptophan" (which is one of the α -amino acids) refers to an essential amino acid that is not synthesized in vivo, and which is of formula C  11  H  12  N  2  O  2  Aromatic L-amino acids of (C). 
 In the present disclosure, "protein having L-tryptophan export ability" or "protein having L-tryptophan export activity" refers to a membrane protein having an activity of specifically exporting L-tryptophan outside the cell.  
 The protein having L-tryptophan export activity may be a protein derived from rhizosphere of the genus helicobacter (Herbaspirillum rhizosphaerae) having L-tryptophan export activity. The protein derived from rhizosphere helicobacter having an L-tryptophan export activity may be, for example, a protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1. A protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 may be used interchangeably with a protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 and a protein consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1. 
 In particular, "rhizosphere rhodospirillum" is a gram negative bacterium belonging to the genus rhodospirillum (genus Herbaspirillum). In korea, rhizosphere grass spirochete, as a strain isolated from Yu Lingdao (ullsung island) or the like, can be isolated from the rhizosphere of soil. 
 In addition, although the protein of the present disclosure having L-tryptophan export activity is defined as a protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1, it does not exclude the addition of nonsensical sequences upstream or downstream of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1, naturally occurring mutations, or silent mutations thereof, and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that any protein having the same or corresponding activity as the protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 belongs to the protein of the present disclosure having L-tryptophan export activity. Specifically, for example, the protein of the present disclosure having L-tryptophan output activity may be a protein composed of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1, or a protein composed of an amino acid sequence having 80%, 90%, 95%, 97% or more homology or identity with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1. In addition, it is apparent that any protein having an amino acid sequence deleted, modified, substituted or added in a part of the sequence may also fall within the scope of the protein to be mutated of the present disclosure as long as the protein has any of the above-described homology or identity and exhibits an effect corresponding to the above-described protein.  
 That is, in the present disclosure, even in the case where it is described as "a protein or polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of a specific SEQ ID NO" or "a protein or polypeptide composed of the amino acid sequence of a specific SEQ ID NO", it is apparent that any protein having an amino acid sequence deleted, modified, substituted or added in part of the sequence may be used in the present disclosure as long as the protein has the same or corresponding activity as that of a polypeptide composed of the amino acid sequence of the corresponding SEQ ID NO. For example, it is obvious that "a polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1" may also belong to "a polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1" as long as the polypeptide has the same or corresponding activity as SEQ ID NO. 1. 
 The protein variant having an L-tryptophan output ability provided in the present disclosure may refer to a variant in which an amino acid at a specific position thereof is substituted in a protein having the above-described L-tryptophan output ability, and the resulting L-tryptophan output ability is more than 100% compared to the L-tryptophan output ability of the protein before mutation. 
 As used herein, the term "variant" refers to a protein in which at least one amino acid differs from the amino acids of the recited sequences in conservative substitutions and/or modifications, but maintains the function and properties of the protein. Variants differ from the identified sequences by substitution, deletion or addition of several amino acids. Such variants can generally be identified by modifying one or more amino acids in the amino acid sequence of the above-described proteins and evaluating the properties of the above-described modified proteins. That is, the ability of a variant may be increased, unchanged or decreased relative to its ability to naturally occur protein. In addition, some variants may include variants in which one or more portions (e.g., the N-terminal leader or transmembrane domain) are removed. Other variants may include variants in which portions of the N-and/or C-terminus of the mature protein have been removed. The term "variant" may be used interchangeably with "modification", "modified protein", "modified polypeptide", "mutant", "mutein", "divergent", "variant", etc., but as long as these terms are used to indicate variation, the terms to be used are not limited thereto and any terms may be used. For the purposes of this disclosure, a variant may refer to a variant in which the activity of a mutant protein is increased compared to the activity of the native wild-type or unmodified protein, but the variant is not limited thereto.  
 As used herein, the term "conservative substitution" refers to the substitution of one amino acid for another amino acid having similar structure and/or chemical properties. For example, a variant may retain one or more biological activities while having one or more conservative substitutions. Such amino acid substitutions may generally occur based on similarity in polarity, charge, solubility, hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, and/or the amphipathic nature of the residues. For example, among charged amino acids, positively charged (basic) amino acids include arginine, lysine, and histidine; negatively charged (acidic) amino acids include glutamic acid and aspartic acid. Among the uncharged amino acids, nonpolar amino acids include glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, methionine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and proline; polar or hydrophilic amino acids include serine, threonine, cysteine, tyrosine, asparagine, and glutamine; and aromatic amino acids including phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine. 
 Further, variants may include deletions or additions of amino acids that have minimal impact on the properties and secondary structure of the polypeptide. For example, the polypeptide may be conjugated to a signal (or leader) sequence at the N-terminus of the protein that directs protein transfer at the time of co-translation or post-translation. Alternatively, the polypeptide may be conjugated to another sequence or linker for identification, purification or synthesis of the polypeptide.  
 The "substitution with a different amino acid" is not limited as long as the substituted amino acid is different from the amino acid before substitution. That is, only the 79 th amino acid (i.e., leucine) at the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with an amino acid other than leucine; substitution of the 80 th amino acid (i.e., serine) at the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 with an amino acid other than serine; substitution of the 81 st amino acid (i.e., leucine) of the N-terminal amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 with an amino acid other than leucine; substitution of the 82 nd amino acid (i.e., serine) of the N-terminal amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 with an amino acid other than serine; alternatively, the 83 rd amino acid (i.e., isoleucine) at the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with an amino acid other than isoleucine, and "substitution with a different amino acid" is not limited. Meanwhile, when expressed as "a specific amino acid is substituted" in the present disclosure, it is apparent that an amino acid is substituted with an amino acid different from the amino acid before substitution even if it is not specifically stated that the amino acid has been substituted with a different amino acid. 
 Alternatively, the protein variant may be a variant in which at least one of the amino acids at positions 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with an amino acid other than the amino acid before substitution (excluding acidic amino acids and basic amino acids). Alternatively, the protein variant may be a variant having an uncharged amino acid, wherein the substituted amino acid is different from the amino acid before substitution, but the protein variant is not limited thereto.  
 Alternatively, the protein variant may be a variant in which at least one of the amino acids at positions 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with an amino acid between a hydrophobic amino acid and an aliphatic amino acid that is different from the amino acid before substitution. Specifically, the protein variant may be a variant in which at least one of the amino acids at positions 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with any one of the amino acids between a hydrophobic (nonpolar) amino acid and an aliphatic amino acid. The aliphatic amino acid may be, for example, an amino acid selected from glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine, but the aliphatic amino acid is not limited thereto. The hydrophobic (nonpolar) amino acid may be, for example, an amino acid selected from glycine, methionine, alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, but the hydrophobic (nonpolar) amino acid is not limited thereto. 
 Alternatively, the protein variant may be a variant in which at least one of the amino acids at positions 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with an amino acid different from the amino acid before substitution in the small-sized amino acid, but the protein variant is not limited thereto.  
 As used herein, the term "small-sized amino acid" includes amino acids having a relatively small size (i.e., glycine, alanine, serine, threonine, cysteine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, and asparagine) among 20 amino acids, and in particular, glycine, alanine, serine, threonine, cysteine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, and proline may refer to, but the small-sized amino acids are not limited thereto; and more specifically, the small-sized amino acid may refer to glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, serine, and threonine, but the small-sized amino acid is not limited thereto. 
 Alternatively, the protein variant may be a variant in which at least one amino acid from amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with an amino acid selected from alanine, valine, leucine and isoleucine, but the protein variant is not limited thereto. 
 In particular, the substitution in the protein variant by a different amino acid may be one or more substitutions selected from the group consisting of: wherein the 79 th amino acid (i.e., leucine) in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, or isoleucine; wherein the 80 th amino acid (i.e., serine) in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, leucine, or isoleucine; wherein the 81 st amino acid (i.e., leucine) in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, or isoleucine; wherein the 82 nd amino acid (i.e., serine) in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, leucine, or isoleucine; and wherein the 83 rd amino acid (i.e., isoleucine) in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, or leucine, but the substitution is not limited thereto.  
 Thus, the protein variants of the present disclosure have enhanced L-tryptophan export ability as compared to the pre-mutated protein. 
 Obviously, protein variants of the present disclosure (wherein at least one of the amino acids 79 to 83 of SEQ ID NO:1 is substituted with a different amino acid) include protein variants wherein the amino acid at the position corresponding to 79 to 83 is substituted with a different amino acid. 
 One of ordinary skill in the art will be able to identify whether the amino acid at any position in any sequence is an amino acid corresponding to amino acids 79 to 83 of SEQ ID NO. 1 by comparing any sequence with SEQ ID NO. 1 using methods known in the art for confirming sequence alignment, homology or identity. 
 Thus, although not described further herein, it is apparent that the description relating to "amino acids 79 to 83 of SEQ ID NO: 1" may also be a description of "amino acids corresponding to amino acids 79 to 83 of SEQ ID NO: 1" as applied to any sequence (e.g., sequences having 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90%, or more identity to SEQ ID NO: 1). 
 For example, a protein variant of the present disclosure may be a protein variant in which an amino acid corresponding to amino acids 79 to 83 is substituted with a different amino acid and has 70%, 80%, 90%, or 95% identity to SEQ ID NO. 1, but the protein variant of the present disclosure is not limited thereto.  
 A protein variant in which one or more of the amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 are replaced with different amino acids may be a protein variant comprising any one of the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NO. 131 to SEQ ID NO. 147; in particular, a protein variant consisting essentially of any one of the amino acid sequences SEQ ID NO. 131 to SEQ ID NO. 147; and more specifically, a protein variant consisting of any one of the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NO:131 to SEQ ID NO:147, but the protein variant of the present disclosure is not limited thereto. 
 In addition, the protein variant may comprise any one of the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NO. 131 to SEQ ID NO. 147; or an amino acid sequence in which at least one amino acid selected from the amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is fixed and which has 80% or more homology or identity with SEQ ID NO. 1, but the protein variant is not limited thereto. In particular, mutant polypeptides of the present disclosure may include polypeptides having at least 80%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% homology or identity to any of the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NO. 131 through SEQ ID NO. 147. In addition, it is apparent that any protein having an amino acid sequence deleted, modified, substituted, or added in a sequence portion other than the amino acid at 79 th to 83 rd positions may be included within the scope of the present disclosure as long as the protein has any of the above-described homology or identity and exhibits an effect corresponding to the above-described protein.  
 As used herein, the term "homology" or "identity" refers to the degree of relatedness between two given amino acid sequences or nucleotide sequences, and may be expressed as a percentage. These terms "homology" and "identity" are often used interchangeably. 
 Sequence homology or identity of a conserved polynucleotide or polypeptide can be determined by standard alignment algorithms and default gap penalties established by the program used (default gap penalty) can be used therewith. Indeed, sequences of homology or identity may hybridize to each other under moderately or highly stringent conditions along at least about 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90% of the entire sequence or the entire length. Polynucleotides comprising degenerate codons in place of codons are also contemplated in hybridization. 
 Whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have homology, similarity, or identity can be determined using computer algorithms known in the art (e.g., the "FASTA" program) using default parameters introduced by Pearson et al (1988) [ Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA85:2444 ]. Alternatively, it may be determined using the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm (1970, J.mol. Biol. 48:443-453) performed in the Needleman program of the EMBOSS package (EMBOSS: the European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite, rice et al, 2000,Trends Genet.16:276-277) (version 5.0.0 or higher). (including GCG package (Devereux, J. ET AL Nucleic Acids Research 12:387 (1984)), BLASTP, BLASTN, FASTA (Atschul, [ S. ] [ F. ] [ ET AL, J MOLEC BIOL 215]:403 (1990)), guide to Huge Computers, martin J.Bishop, [ ED., ] Academic Press, san Diego,1994, and [ CARILLO ETA/] (1988) SIAM J Applied Math 48:1073). For example, homology, similarity, or identity can be determined using BLAST or ClustalW from the national center for Biotechnology information (National Center for Biotechnology Information) database.  
 Homology, similarity, or identity between polynucleotides or polypeptides can be determined by comparing given sequence information using GAP computer programs, such as those disclosed by Smith and Waterman (adv. Appl. Math (1981) 2:482), such as those introduced by Needleman et al (J Mol biol.48:443 (1970)). Briefly, the GAP program defines homology, similarity, or identity as the number of similar alignment symbols (i.e., nucleotides or amino acids) divided by the total number of symbols for the shorter of the two sequences. Default parameters of the GAP program may include: (1) Binary comparison matrices (including identity value 1 and non-identity value 0) and weighted comparison matrices (Atlas Of Protein Sequence And Structure, national Biomedical Research Foundation, pp.353-358 (1979) or EDNAFULL (an EMBOSS version of NCBI NUC 4.4) substitution matrix) as described by Schwartz and Dayhoff, eds. Gripskov et al, (nucleic acids res.14:6755 (1986)); (2) A penalty of 3.0 for each gap and 0.10 penalty (or gap open penalty) of 10 and a gap extension penalty (gap extension penalty) of 0.5) for each symbol in each gap; and (3) no penalty for end gaps. 
 In addition, whether any two polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences have homology, similarity or identity can be confirmed by comparing these sequences by southern hybridization experiments performed under defined stringent conditions, and the appropriate hybridization conditions to be defined can be determined within the scope of the art and by methods well known to those skilled in the art (e.g., j. Sambrook et al, molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual,2nd Edition,Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory press,Cold Spring Harbor,New York,1989;F.M.Ausubel et al, current Protocols in Molecular Biology, john Wiley & Sons, inc., new york).  
 As used herein, the term "to be expressed/expressed" with respect to a protein refers to a state in which a target protein is introduced into a microorganism or the target protein is modified to be expressed in a microorganism. When the target protein is a protein present in a microorganism, the term refers to a state in which the activity of the protein is enhanced compared to the activity of its endogenous protein or the activity before modification thereof. For the purposes of this disclosure, a "target protein" may be a variant of a protein having the L-tryptophan export ability described above. 
 In particular, the term "introduction of a protein" means that the microorganism exhibits an activity of a specific protein which it has not originally had, or that the microorganism exhibits an enhanced activity compared to its endogenous protein activity or to the protein activity before modification. For example, the term "introduction of a protein" may mean that a polynucleotide encoding a particular protein is introduced into the chromosome of a microorganism; or introducing a vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding a specific protein into a microorganism, and thereby allowing the activity of the specific protein to be expressed. In addition, the term "enhancement of activity" means that the activity of a particular protein is enhanced compared to its endogenous activity or its activity prior to modification. The term "endogenous activity" refers to the activity of a specific protein originally possessed by a parent strain before modification in the case where the properties of a microorganism are altered by genetic mutation caused by natural or artificial factors.  
 In particular, in the present disclosure, enhancement of activity may be achieved by one or more methods selected from the group consisting of: a method of increasing the intracellular copy number of a gene encoding a protein variant; a method of introducing a mutation into an expression control sequence of a gene encoding a protein variant; a method of replacing an expression control sequence of a gene encoding a protein variant having an L-tryptophan output activity with a sequence having a strong activity; a method of replacing a gene encoding a native protein having L-tryptophan export activity on a chromosome with a gene encoding a protein variant; a method of further introducing a mutation into a gene encoding a protein having L-tryptophan output activity such that the activity of the protein variant is enhanced; and a method of introducing the protein variant into a microorganism, but the activity-enhancing method is not limited thereto. 
 In the above, the method of increasing the copy number of a gene may be performed in the form of operably linking the gene with a vector or by inserting the gene into the chromosome of a host cell, but the method is not particularly limited thereto. In particular, the copy number of a gene may be increased by introducing a vector into a host cell, wherein the vector (the polynucleotide encoding a protein of the present disclosure is operably linked to the vector and the vector is capable of replication and functioning regardless of the host cell) is introduced into the host cell. Alternatively, the copy number of the gene may be increased by introducing a vector (a polynucleotide operably linked to the vector and the vector being capable of inserting the polynucleotide into the chromosome of the host cell) into the chromosome of the host cell. Insertion of the polynucleotide into the chromosome may be accomplished by methods known in the art (e.g., homologous recombination).  
 Then, modification of the expression control sequences for increasing expression of the polynucleotide may be performed by: inducing mutations in the nucleic acid sequence by deletions, insertions, non-conservative or conservative substitutions, or combinations thereof, to further enhance the activity of the expression control sequence; or by replacing the expression control sequence with a nucleic acid sequence having a stronger activity, but the modification method of the expression control sequence is not particularly limited thereto. The expression control sequence may include a promoter, an operator sequence, a sequence encoding a ribosome binding site, a sequence for controlling termination of transcription and translation, and the like, but the expression control sequence is not particularly limited thereto. 
 The original promoter may be replaced, and a strong promoter may be ligated to an upstream region of an expression unit of the polynucleotide, but is not limited thereto. Examples of strong promoters known in the art may include cj1 to cj7 promoters (Korean patent No. 10-0620092), lac promoter, trp promoter, trc promoter, tac promoter, lambda phage PR promoter, P  L  Promoters, tet promoters, gapA promoters, SPL7 promoters, SPL13 (sm 3) promoters (Korean patent No. 10-1783170), O2 promoters (Korean patent No. 10-1632642), tkt promoters, yccA promoters, etc., but strong promoters are not limited thereto.  
 Further, modification of the polynucleotide sequence on the chromosome may be performed by: inducing mutations in the expression control sequences by deletions, insertions, non-conservative or conservative substitutions, or combinations thereof, to further enhance the activity of the polynucleotide sequences; or by replacing the polynucleotide sequence with an improved polynucleotide sequence to have a stronger activity, but the modification method of the polynucleotide sequence is not particularly limited thereto. 
 The introduction and enhancement of the activity of a protein as described above may generally increase the activity or concentration of the corresponding protein by at least 1%, at least 10%, at least 25%, at least 50%, at least 75%, at least 100%, at least 150%, at least 200%, at least 300%, at least 400%, or at least 500%, and up to 1000% or 2000%, based on the activity or concentration of the protein in the wild-type or unmodified microbial strain, although the scope of the increase is not limited thereto. 
 Another aspect of the disclosure provides polynucleotides encoding the above protein variants. 
 As used herein, the term "polynucleotide" refers to DNA or RNA strands of more than a certain length as a polymer of nucleotides, which are long chains of nucleotide monomers linked by covalent bonds, and more specifically, refers to polynucleotide fragments encoding protein variants.  
 Polynucleotides encoding protein variants of the present disclosure may include, without limitation, any polynucleotide sequence so long as the polynucleotide sequence encodes a protein variant having L-tryptophan export ability. 
 In the present disclosure, the gene encoding the amino acid sequence of the protein having L-tryptophan export ability may be wex gene, may be derived from rhizosphere grass spiral bacteria, specifically, may be a nucleotide sequence encoding the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1, and more specifically, may be a nucleotide sequence including the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 2, but the gene is not limited thereto. 
 In view of the degeneracy of the codons and the codons preferred in the biological organism in which the polypeptide is to be expressed, various modifications may be made in the coding region of the polynucleotide encoding a protein variant of the present disclosure within the scope of not altering the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide. In particular, any polynucleotide sequence encoding a protein variant in which at least one amino acid selected from amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with a different amino acid may be included without limitation. For example, the polynucleotide of the present disclosure may be a protein variant of the present disclosure, and in particular, may be a polynucleotide sequence encoding a protein including the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs 131 to 147, or a polypeptide having homology or identity to the protein, but the polynucleotide of the present disclosure is not limited thereto, and more particularly, may be a polynucleotide including any one of the polynucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NOs 80, 81, 82, 89, 90, 91, 92, 101, 102, 103, 110, 111, 112, 113, 122, 123, and 124, but the polynucleotide of the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Homology and identity are the same as described above.  
 In addition, any sequence encoding a protein variant in which at least one amino acid selected from amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1 is substituted with a different amino acid by hybridization with any probe that can be prepared from a known gene sequence (e.g., a sequence complementary to all or part of the above polynucleotide sequence) under stringent conditions may be included without limitation. 
 The term "stringent conditions" refers to conditions that enable specific hybridization between polynucleotides. These conditions are specifically described in the literature (e.g., J Sambrook et al, supra). For example, the conditions may include hybridization between genes having high homology (homology is 40% or more, specifically 90% or more, more specifically 95% or more, even more specifically 97% or more, and most specifically 99% or more), while hybridization is not performed between genes having homology lower than the above; or under conventional washing conditions of southern hybridization, i.e., at a salt concentration and temperature corresponding to 60 ℃, 1 XSSC, and 0.1% SDS, specifically 60 ℃, 0.1 XSSC, and 0.1% SDS, and more specifically 68 ℃, 0.1 XSSC, and 0.1% SDS, once, specifically two or three times. However, the hybridization conditions are not limited thereto, but may be appropriately adjusted according to the purpose by those skilled in the art.  
 Although mismatches between bases are possible depending on the stringency of hybridization, hybridization requires that two nucleotides comprise complementary sequences. The term "complementary" is used to describe the relationship between nucleotide bases capable of hybridizing to each other. For example, with respect to DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine, and cytosine is complementary to guanine. Thus, the disclosure may include isolated polynucleotide fragments that are complementary to the entire sequence, as well as substantially similar polynucleotide sequences. 
 In particular, T can be at 55 DEG C  m  Under these conditions, polynucleotides having homology are detected using hybridization conditions (which include a hybridization step) and using the above conditions. In addition, T  m  The value may be 60 ℃, 63 ℃, or 65 ℃, but the temperature is not limited thereto, and may be appropriately adjusted according to the purpose by those skilled in the art. 
 The degree of stringency suitable for hybridization of polynucleotides depends on the length and degree of complementarity of the polynucleotides, and variables are well known in the art (see Sambrook et al, supra, 9.50 to 9.51 and 11.7 to 11.8). 
 Yet another aspect of the disclosure provides a vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding a protein variant. 
 As used herein, the term "vector" refers to a DNA construct comprising a nucleotide sequence of a polynucleotide encoding a target protein operably linked to suitable control sequences such that the target protein can be expressed in a suitable host. Control sequences include promoters capable of initiating transcription, any operator sequences for controlling transcription, sequences encoding suitable mRNA ribosome binding sites, and sequences which control transcription and translation termination. After transformation into a suitable host cell, the vector may replicate or function independently of the host genome, or may be integrated into the host genome itself.  
 The carrier used in the present disclosure is not particularly limited, and any carrier known in the art may be used. Examples of conventionally used vectors may include natural or recombinant plasmids, cosmids, viruses, and phages. For example, we15, M13, MBL3, MBL4, IXII, ASHII, APII, t, t11, charon4A, charon a, etc. can be used as phage vectors or cosmid vectors; and a vector based on pBR, pUC, pBluescriptII, pGEM, pTZ, pCL, pET or the like may be used as the plasmid vector. Specifically, vectors such as pDZ, pACYC177, pACYC184, pCL, pECCG117, pUC19, pBR322, pMW118, pCC1BAC and the like can be used. 
 For example, a polynucleotide encoding a target protein in a chromosome can be replaced with a mutated polynucleotide by a vector for intracellular chromosomal insertion. Insertion of the polynucleotide into the chromosome may be performed using any method known in the art (e.g., homologous recombination), but the method is not limited thereto. The vector may further comprise a selectable marker for confirming its successful insertion into the chromosome. The selectable marker is used to select cells transformed with the vector, i.e., to confirm whether the target nucleic acid molecule has been successfully inserted, and markers that provide a selectable phenotype (e.g., drug resistance, co-nutrition, resistance to cytotoxic agents, expression of surface proteins, etc.) can be used. In the case of treatment with a selection agent, only cells capable of expressing the selection marker are able to survive or express other phenotypic traits, allowing for easy selection of transformed cells.  
 It is another object of the present disclosure to provide microorganisms producing L-tryptophan which express protein variants having L-tryptophan export activity. 
 As used herein, the term "L-tryptophan-producing microorganism" refers to a microorganism that is capable of overproducing L-tryptophan from a carbon source in a medium as compared to a wild-type or unmodified strain of the microorganism. In addition, the microorganism producing L-tryptophan may be a recombinant microorganism. Specifically, the microorganism may be a microorganism of the genus Enterobacter (genus Enterobacter), a microorganism of the genus Escherichia (genus Escherichia), a microorganism of the genus Erwinia, a microorganism of the genus Serratia, a microorganism of the genus providencia (genus Providencia), a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium, or a microorganism of the genus Brevibacterium (genus Brevibacterium), but the type of microorganism is not particularly limited as long as the microorganism can produce L-tryptophan. More specifically, the microorganism may be a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium or a microorganism of the genus Escherichia. 
 Even more specifically, the microorganism of the genus Escherichia may be Escherichia coli, and the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium may be Corynebacterium glutamicum, but may include, without limitation, any microorganism of the genus Escherichia or Corynebacterium into which a protein having L-tryptophan export activity is introduced or activity is enhanced and thus L-tryptophan production can be increased.  
 In the above microorganism, the L-tryptophan production amount can be increased using a method of increasing L-tryptophan biosynthesis by enhancing expression of the tktA gene or by blocking a branch pathway in the L-tryptophan biosynthesis pathway to continuously supply a precursor (e.g., erythrose-4-phosphate; E4P) and efficient energy utilization, or using a method of utilizing a smaller amount of ATP, or the like. 
 Specifically, in the present disclosure, as long as the parent strain is an L-tryptophan-producing microorganism, the L-tryptophan-producing microorganism (which expresses a protein or protein variant having an L-tryptophan output activity, or which is modified so that a protein or protein variant having an L-tryptophan output activity can be expressed) parent strain is not particularly limited. The microorganism producing L-tryptophan may be a microorganism in which the activity of a gene in a competing pathway, a regulator in a targeting pathway of an L-tryptophan operator, a gene for inputting L-tryptophan, or a gene for inputting and decomposing L-tryptophan is impaired or inactivated to enhance the L-tryptophan biosynthetic pathway; and/or may be a microorganism in which the L-tryptophan operon activity is overexpressed. Specifically, the activity of trpR (i.e., a gene of an enzyme group for regulating tryptophan synthesis, which can inhibit the expression of an L-tryptophan biosynthesis gene (trpecba)), or the activity of Mtr (i.e., a membrane protein that inputs extracellular L-tryptophan into a cell) may be impaired or removed, as compared to its endogenous activity.  
 To achieve the above object, another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for producing tryptophan, which comprises culturing an L-tryptophan-producing microorganism expressing a protein variant in a medium. 
 L-tryptophan, a protein having L-tryptophan export activity and comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1, the expression of the protein and the microorganism are the same as described above. 
 As used herein, the term "culturing" means growing a microorganism under appropriately controlled environmental conditions. The culture process of the present disclosure may be performed under suitable media and culture conditions known in the art. Depending on the strain to be selected, the person skilled in the art can easily adjust this culture process for use. Specifically, the culturing process may be performed in batch culture, continuous culture, and fed-batch culture known in the art, but the culturing process is not limited thereto. 
 As used herein, the term "medium" refers to a mixture of substances containing as a main component nutrients required for culturing microorganisms, and which provides nutrients, growth factors, etc., as well as water critical to survival and growth. Specifically, as the medium and other culture conditions used for culturing the microorganism of the present disclosure, any medium used for conventional culture of microorganisms may be used without particular limitation. However, the microorganisms of the present disclosure may be cultured under aerobic conditions in a conventional medium containing an appropriate carbon source, nitrogen source, phosphorus source, inorganic compound, amino acid, vitamin, and/or the like while adjusting temperature, pH, and the like.  
 In the present disclosure, the carbon source may include carbohydrates (e.g., glucose, fructose, sucrose, maltose, etc.); sugar alcohols (e.g., mannitol, sorbitol, etc.); organic acids (e.g., pyruvic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, etc.); amino acids (e.g., glutamic acid, methionine, lysine, etc.), and the like. In addition, the carbon source may include natural organic nutrients (e.g., starch hydrolysates, molasses, brown sugar molasses, rice bran, tapioca, cane molasses, corn steep liquor, etc.). In particular, carbohydrates such as glucose and sterilized pre-treated molasses (i.e., molasses is converted to reducing sugar) may be used, and in addition, various other carbon sources may be used in an appropriate amount without limitation. These carbon sources may be used alone or in combination of two or more, but the carbon sources are not limited thereto. 
 Examples of the nitrogen source may include inorganic nitrogen sources (e.g., ammonia, ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium acetate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium nitrate, etc.); amino acids (e.g., glutamic acid, methionine, glutamine, etc.); and organic nitrogen sources (e.g., peptone, N-Z amine, meat extract, yeast extract, malt extract, corn steep liquor, casein hydrolysate, fish or its decomposition products, defatted soybean cake or its decomposition products, etc.). These nitrogen sources may be used alone or in combination of two or more, but the nitrogen sources are not limited thereto.  
 Examples of the phosphorus source may include potassium dihydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, the corresponding sodium-containing salts, and the like. Examples of the inorganic compound may include sodium chloride, calcium chloride, ferric chloride, magnesium sulfate, ferric sulfate, manganese sulfate, calcium carbonate, and the like. In addition, amino acids, vitamins and/or suitable precursors may be included, among others. These constituent components or precursors may be added to a medium for batch culture or continuous culture, but are not limited thereto. 
 In the present disclosure, the pH of the medium may be adjusted during the cultivation of the microorganism by adding a compound (e.g., ammonium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonia, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, etc.) to the medium in an appropriate manner. In addition, during the culture, an antifoaming agent (e.g., fatty acid polyglycol ester) may be added to prevent foam generation. In addition, oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas may be injected into the medium to maintain an aerobic state of the medium; alternatively, the anaerobic or microaerophilic state of the medium may be maintained without injecting gas or injecting nitrogen, hydrogen or carbon dioxide gas into the medium, but the gas is not limited thereto. 
 The medium temperature may be in the range from 20 ℃ to 50 ℃, and specifically in the range from 30 ℃ to 37 ℃, but the medium temperature is not limited thereto. The cultivation may be continued until a desired amount of the useful substance is obtained, and specifically, for 10 to 100 hours, but the cultivation period is not limited thereto.  
 The production process may include recovering L-tryptophan from the cultured medium or microorganism. 
 In the step of recovering tryptophan, the desired L-tryptophan may be recovered from the medium using the methods for culturing microorganisms of the present disclosure (e.g., according to a batch, continuous, or fed-batch culture process, using suitable methods known in the art). For example, methods such as centrifugation, filtration, treatment with a protein crystallization precipitant (salting-out method), extraction, ultrasonication, ultrafiltration, dialysis, various chromatographies (e.g., molecular sieve chromatography (gel filtration), adsorption chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography, etc.), and HPLC may be used alone or in combination, but the method is not limited thereto. 
 The production process may include a purification process. During the purification process, the recovered L-tryptophan may be purified using suitable purification methods known in the art. 
 Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method of increasing the L-tryptophan output ability of a microorganism, comprising modifying the microorganism such that a protein variant having L-tryptophan output activity, wherein at least one amino acid selected from amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No. 1 is replaced with a different amino acid, can be expressed in the microorganism.  
 Yet another aspect of the disclosure provides the use of a protein variant for increasing the output capacity of L-tryptophan. 
 Yet another aspect of the present disclosure provides the use of a protein variant for increasing the capacity of L-tryptophan production. 
 Since the protein variants of the present disclosure may increase L-tryptophan export ability of a microorganism, they may be useful for increasing L-tryptophan production. Protein variants and other amino acids are the same as described above. 
 Examples 
 Hereinafter, the present disclosure will be described in detail by way of exemplary embodiments. However, these exemplary embodiments are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. 
 
 Example 1: screening and selection of output genes 
 
 As a result of PSI-BLAST screening based on NCBI and KEGG databases with the amino acid sequence having YdeD (i.e., derived from the EamA family of escherichia coli) as a query sequence, 30 candidate genes of membrane proteins considered to be capable of outputting tryptophan and biological organisms having these genes were selected. Among them, 5 kinds of biological organisms were selected in consideration of biosafety levels and availability applicable to the production strain, as shown in table 1 below. 
 TABLE 1 microorganisms having membrane proteins capable of exporting aromatic amino acids are expected  
 
 
 
 
 Example 2: preparation of corynebacterium microorganism into which gene derived from rhizosphere grass spiral bacterium is introduced 
 
 The gene encoding the membrane protein derived from rhizosphere spiral bacteria selected in example 1 has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1. Information about the gene encoding the membrane protein and its adjacent nucleotide sequences (accession number nz_lflu 01000012.1) was obtained from the NIH gene library (NIH GenBank). 
 Primers for inserting genes derived from rhizosphere grass spiral into genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum were synthesized based on the obtained nucleotide sequence information. In order to amplify the gene derived from rhizosphere grass spiral, PCR was performed using chromosomal DNA of the rhizosphere grass spiral strain as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO. 3 and SEQ ID NO. 4. Using Solg  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase was used as a polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 1 min; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 As a result, a gene fragment of 956 bp, which contains the gene of 924 bp (SEQ ID NO: 2), was obtained. 
 SEQ ID NO:3(wex-1) 
 TAGAGGAGACACAACATGAATAGCAAGAAGGCCAC 
 SEQ ID NO:4(wex-2) 
 ggctcttcctgtttAGTCTACAAACAGTCCGCCAC 
 To obtain the gapA promoter derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR was performed using the genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 6. Using Solg   TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase (solGent Co., ltd.) as polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 30 sec; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 SEQ ID NO:5(PgapA-1) 
 cccttccggtttAGTTTGAAGCCAGTGTGAGTTGC 
 SEQ ID NO:6(PgapA(-wex)-2) 
 CTTCTTGCTATTCATGTTGTGTCTCCTCTAAAGATTGTA 
 The amplified gapA promoter region, a gene fragment derived from the rhizosphere of the plant helicobacter, and the pDZTn vector cut with ScaI restriction enzyme (Korean patent No. 10-1126041) were cloned by the Gibson assembly method (DG Gibson et al, NATURE METHODS, VOL.6 No.5, MAY 2009,NEBuilder HiFi DNA Assembly Master Mix), and recombinant plasmids were thus obtained. The recombinant plasmid was designated pDZTn-PgapA-Hrh. Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour. 
 The prepared pDZTn-PgapA-Hrh vector was transformed into a wild type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 strain by electroporation (appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. (1999) 52:541-545) and then subjected to secondary exchange to obtain a strain in which one copy of the PgapA-Hrh gene was inserted between transposon genes in chromosomes. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer regions of the upstream region and the downstream region of homologous recombination inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively.  
 SEQ ID NO. 7 (confirmed_PgapA-wex-1) 
 CGGATTATGCCAATGATGTG 
 SEQ ID NO. 8 (confirmed_PgapA-wex-2) 
 CACGATCACCAACATTCAGG 
 The strain thus obtained was designated as Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 13869:PgapA-Hrh. 
 
 Example 3: preparation of microorganism of Corynebacterium genus into which gene derived from Pseudomonas stutzeri is introduced 
 
 The gene encoding the Pseudomonas stutzeri-derived membrane protein selected in example 1 has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 9. Information about the corresponding gene and its adjacent nucleotide sequences (accession number nc_ 018177.1) was obtained from the NIH gene library. 
 Primers for inserting a gene derived from Pseudomonas stutzeri into genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum were synthesized based on the obtained nucleotide sequence information. In order to amplify the gene derived from Pseudomonas stutzeri, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using the chromosomal DNA of Pseudomonas stutzeri strain as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO:11 and SEQ ID NO: 12. 
 As a result, a gene fragment of 977 bp, which contained the 945 bp output gene (SEQ ID NO: 10), was obtained. 
 SEQ ID NO:11(Pst-1) 
 TAGAGGAGACACAACATGAAAAACCAGCGTAAAGC 
 SEQ ID NO:12(Pst-2) 
 ggctcttcctgtttAGTTTATCCGTTTCGACGCGG 
 For the use of the gapA promoter derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using the genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO:5 and SEQ ID NO: 13.  
 SEQ ID NO:13(PgapA(-Pst)-2) 
 ACGCTGGTTTTTCATGTTGTGTCTCCTCTAAAGATTGTA 
 The amplified gapA promoter region, a gene fragment derived from Pseudomonas stutzeri, and a pDZTn vector cut with ScaI restriction enzyme were cloned by Gibson assembly method, and thus recombinant plasmids were obtained. The recombinant plasmid was designated pDZTn-PgapA-Pst. Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour. 
 The prepared pDZTn-PgapA-Pst vector was transformed into a wild type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 strain by electroporation (appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. (1999) 52:541-545) and then subjected to secondary exchange to obtain a strain in which one copy of the PgapA-Pst gene was inserted between transposon genes in chromosomes. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer regions of the upstream region and the downstream region of homologous recombination inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively. 
 The strain thus obtained was designated as Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869:: pgapA-Pst. 
 
 Example 4: preparation of corynebacterium microorganism into which gene derived from Alcaligenes faecalis is introduced  
 
 The gene encoding the film protein derived from Alcaligenes faecalis selected in example 1 has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 14. Information about the corresponding gene and its adjacent nucleotide sequences (accession number nz_cp 013119.1) was obtained from the NIH gene library. 
 Primers for inserting a gene derived from Alcaligenes faecalis into genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum were synthesized based on the obtained nucleotide sequence information. In order to amplify the gene derived from Alcaligenes faecalis, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using chromosomal DNA of the Alcaligenes faecalis strain as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO. 16 and SEQ ID NO. 17. 
 As a result, a 943bp gene fragment was obtained, which contained the 912bp output gene (SEQ ID NO: 15). 
 SEQ ID NO:16(Afa-1) 
 TAGAGGAGACACAACATGAAGCAATCTGATAAGGC 
 SEQ ID NO:17(Afa-2) 
 gctcttcctgtttAGTTCAGGCAGCGCTTTTTAGT 
 To obtain the gapA promoter derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using the genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 18. 
 SEQ ID NO:18(PgapA(-Afa)-2) 
 ATCAGATTGCTTCATGTTGTGTCTCCTCTAAAGATTGTA 
 The amplified gapA promoter region, the gene fragment derived from Alcaligenes faecalis and the pDZTn vector cut with ScaI restriction enzyme were cloned by Gibson assembly method, and thus recombinant plasmids were obtained. The recombinant plasmid was designated pDZTn-PgapA-Afa. Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour.  
 The prepared pDZTn-PgapA-Afa vector was transformed into a wild type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 strain by electroporation and then subjected to secondary exchange to obtain a strain in which one copy of the PgapA-Afa gene was inserted between transposon genes in chromosomes. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer regions of the upstream region and the downstream region of homologous recombination inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively. 
 The strain thus obtained was designated as Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 13869:PgapA-Afa. 
 
 Example 5: preparation of corynebacterium microorganism into which gene derived from copper greedy fungus is introduced 
 
 The gene encoding the membrane protein derived from the copper species of the hookworm selected in example 1 has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 19. Information on the corresponding gene and its adjacent nucleotide sequences (accession number AM 260480.1) was obtained from the NIH gene library. 
 Primers for inserting a gene derived from copper greedy into the genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum were synthesized based on the obtained nucleotide sequence information. In order to amplify the gene derived from the copper greedy fungus, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using the chromosomal DNA of the copper greedy fungus strain as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO. 21 and SEQ ID NO. 22.  
 As a result, a 977bp gene fragment was obtained, which contained an 945bp export gene derived from copper greedy (SEQ ID NO: 20). 
 SEQ ID NO:21(Cne-1) 
 TAGAGGAGACACAACATGCAAAGCAAGAGCAAAGC 
 SEQ ID NO:22(Cne-2) 
 ggctcttcctgtttAGTTCACGGTTCCTGGACACG 
 To obtain the gapA promoter derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using the genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 23. 
 SEQ ID NO:23(PgapA(-Cne)-2) 
 GCTCTTGCTTTGCATGTTGTGTCTCCTCTAAAGATTGTA 
 The amplified gapA promoter region, a gene fragment derived from copper species of Gothium, and a pDZTn vector cut with ScaI restriction enzyme were cloned by Gibson assembly method, and thus recombinant plasmids were obtained. The recombinant plasmid was designated pDZTn-PgapA-Cne. Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour. 
 The prepared pDZTn-PgapA-Cne vector was transformed into the wild type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 strain by electroporation and then subjected to secondary exchange to obtain a strain in which one copy of the PgapA-Cne gene was inserted between transposon genes in chromosomes. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer regions of the upstream region and the downstream region of homologous recombination inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively.  
 The strain thus obtained was designated as Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 13869:PgapA-Cne. 
 
 Example 6: preparation of coryneform bacterium into which a gene derived from E.coli str.K-12 subsstr.MG1655 was introduced 
 Microorganism 
 
 The gene encoding the membrane protein derived from E.coli str.K-12 substre.MG1655 selected in example 1 has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 24. Information about the corresponding gene and its adjacent nucleotide sequences (accession number nc_ 000913.3) was obtained from the NIH gene library. 
 Primers for inserting a gene derived from E.coli into genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum were synthesized based on the obtained nucleotide sequence information. In order to amplify the gene derived from E.coli, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using the chromosomal DNA of E.coli strain as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO:26 and SEQ ID NO: 27. 
 As a result, a 913bp gene fragment was obtained, which contained the 882bp export gene (SEQ ID NO: 25). 
 SEQ ID NO:26(Eco-1) 
 TAGAGGAGACACAACATGACACGACAAAAAGCAAC 
 SEQ ID NO:27(Eco-2) 
 gctcttcctgtttAGTTTAACCACGACGTGTCGCC 
 To obtain the gapA promoter derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum, PCR was performed in the same manner as in example 2 using the genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 28. 
 SEQ ID NO:28(PgapA(-Eco)-2) 
 TTTTTGTCGTGTCATGTTGTGTCTCCTCTAAAGATTG 
 The amplified gapA promoter region, a gene fragment derived from E.coli and a pDZTn vector cut with ScaI restriction enzyme were cloned by Gibson assembly method, and thus recombinant plasmids were obtained. The recombinant plasmid was designated pDZTn-PgapA-Eco. Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour.  
 The prepared pDZTn-PgapA-Eco vector was transformed into a wild type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 strain by electroporation and then subjected to secondary exchange to obtain a strain in which one copy of the PgapA-Eco gene was inserted between transposon genes in chromosomes. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer regions of the upstream region and the downstream region of homologous recombination inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively. 
 The strain thus obtained was designated as Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869:: pgapA-Eco. 
 
 Example 7: measurement of MIC in Corynebacterium microorganism Strain into which genes derived from various microorganisms were introduced 
 
 To confirm the presence of tryptophan export activity in the 5 types of Corynebacterium glutamicum strains prepared in examples 2 to 6 (i.e., ATCC13869:: pgapA-Hrh, ATCC13869:: pgapA-Pst, ATCC 13869::: pgapA-afa, ATCC 13869::: pgapA-Cne and ATCC 13869::: pgapA-Eco), minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) experiments were performed using tryptophan analogues and phenylalanine analogues (i.e., another aromatic amino acid). 5 different strains of Corynebacterium glutamicum, each of which has the gene encoding a membrane protein introduced, were cultured in minimal liquid medium at 30℃for 24 hours, diluted to 3X 10, respectively   3  Individual cells and 3X 10  4  Concentration of individual cells, and then spotting culture is performed in a substantially solid medium to which tryptophan analogues and phenylalanine analogues are added. 
 For Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) experiments, p-fluoro-DL-phenylalanine (2.5 mg/mL) or 5-fluoro-DL-tryptophan (0.25 μg/mL) was added to minimum solid medium and cell growth was observed after 60 hours (Table 2). 
 The introduction of the selected 5 types of genes all enabled cell growth under conditions in which phenylalanine analog was added at a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL. Among them, the introduction of genes derived from rhizosphere grass spiral, alcaligenes faecalis and E.coli showed the highest cell growth. The introduction of the gene derived from Pseudomonas stutzeri showed a slight decrease in cell growth, and the introduction of the gene derived from copper greedy was the lowest cell growth, compared to the above three strains. The wild type ATCC13869 strain did not grow under the same conditions. In addition, under the condition that tryptophan analogues are added at a concentration of 0.25. Mu.g/mL, the cell can be grown by introducing only the gene derived from rhizosphere of the helicobacter sp. 
 From the above results, it was observed that even if there is a difference in activity between the introductions, the introductions of the selected 5 types of genes all showed resistance to phenylalanine and phenylalanine analogs. In contrast, with respect to tryptophan and tryptophan analogues, the introduction of only the gene derived from rhizosphere of helicobacter has been shown to be specific and excellent in resistance thereto. Based on these results, it can be explained that only the membrane protein encoded by the gene derived from rhizosphere grass spiral can be used as the output protein for tryptophan.  
 
 Basic culture medium (pH 7.2) 
 
 Glucose 10g, KH  2  PO  4   1g、K  2  HPO  4   2g、MgSO  4  .7H  2  O0.4 g, urea 2g, (NH)  4  )  2  SO  4  5g, naCl 0.5g, nicotinamide 5. Mu.g, calcium pantothenate 0.1. Mu.g, biotin 0.2. Mu.g, thiamine hydrochloride (Thiamine HCl) 3. Mu.g, trace element solution 1 mL (based on 1L distilled water) 
 
 Trace element solution 
 
 Na  2  B  4  O  7   10H  2  O 0.09 g、(NH  4  )  6  Mo  7  O  27   4H  2  O 0.04 g、ZnSO  4  .7H  2  O 0.01 g、CuSO  4   5H  2  O 0.27 g、MnCl  2  .4H  2  O 0.01 g、FeCl  3  .6H  2  O 1 g、CaCl  2  0.01 g (based on 1L distilled water) 
 TABLE 2 growth of Corynebacterium glutamicum strains into which genes derived from various microorganisms were introduced in minimal medium containing phenylalanine analog or tryptophan analog 
 
 
 
 
 Example 8: preparation of expression vectors for E.coli into which genes derived from various microorganisms are introduced 
 
 To confirm the resistance of genes derived from the various microorganisms selected in example 1 to tryptophan or an analog thereof in E.coli, each of the genes was cloned into pCL1920 (i.e., E.coli expression vector) and expressed with the yccA promoter of E.coli W3110. 
 In order to obtain a gene fragment derived from rhizosphere grass spiral, PCR was performed using chromosomal DNA of a rhizosphere grass spiral strain as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO. 29 and SEQ ID NO. 30. Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase (solGent Co., ltd.) was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 1 min; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes.  
 SEQ ID NO:29(Hrh-3) 
 ATAGAGAGTGACTCAATGAATAGCAAGAAGGCCAC 
 SEQ ID NO:30(Hrh-4) 
 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCCTACAAACAGTCCGCCAC 
 To obtain the yccA promoter from e.coli W3110, the genomic DNA of e.coli W3110 was used as template and SEQ ID NO:31 and SEQ ID NO:32, and performing PCR. Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase (solGent Co., ltd.) was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 10 sec; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 SEQ ID NO:31(PyccA-1) 
 CTCTAGAGGATCCCCTTCCAGATCAAATGCGTAA 
 SEQ ID NO:32(PyccA(-Hrh)-2) 
 CTTCTTGCTATTCATTGAGTCACTCTCTATGACAG 
 The amplified yccA promoter region was cloned by the Gibson assembly method and derived from helicobacter rhizogenesGene fragments and pCL1920 vector cleaved with SmaI restriction enzyme (pSC 101ori, sp  r  ) And thus a recombinant plasmid is obtained. The recombinant plasmid was designated pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh. Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour. The obtained pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh was introduced into wild-type E.coli W3110, and thereby W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh (i.e., transformant in which the gene was expressed) was prepared. 
 To obtain a gene fragment derived from Pseudomonas stutzeri, PCR was performed using the chromosomal DNA of the Pseudomonas stutzeri strain as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO. 33 and SEQ ID NO. 34. In addition, PCR was performed in the same manner as in the case of obtaining the gene fragment from the above rhizosphere strain of helicobacter, except that a primer of SEQ ID NO. 35 was used for obtaining yccA promoter derived from Escherichia coli W3110 for use.  
 SEQ ID NO:33(Pst-3) 
 ATAGAGAGTGACTCAATGAAAAACCAGCGTAAAGC 
 SEQ ID NO:34(Pst-4) 
 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCTTATCCGTTTCGACGCGG 
 SEQ ID NO:35(PyccA(-Pst)-2) 
 ACGCTGGTTTTTCATTGAGTCACTCTCTATGACAG 
 Thus, a recombinant plasmid was obtained and designated as pCL1920-PyccA-Pst. The expression vector pCL1920-PyccA-Pst was transformed into wild-type E.coli W3110, and thus W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Pst (i.e., a transformant in which the gene was expressed) was prepared. 
 Wherein the transformant expressing the gene derived from the alcaligenes faecalis strain was prepared as described above, except that PCR was performed using the chromosomal DNA of the alcaligenes faecalis strain as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO:36 and SEQ ID NO:37, and the primer of SEQ ID NO:38 for obtaining yccA promoter was used. 
 SEQ ID NO:36(Afa-3) 
 ATAGAGAGTGACTCAATGAAGCAATCTGATAAGGC 
 SEQ ID NO:37(Afa-4) 
 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCTCAGGCAGCGCTTTTTAGT 
 SEQ ID NO:38(PyccA(-Afa)-2) 
 ATCAGATTGCTTCATTGAGTCACTCTCTATGACAG 
 Thus, a recombinant plasmid in which a gene derived from Alcaligenes faecalis was cloned was obtained and designated pCL1920-PyccA-Afa. The expression vector pCL1920-PyccA-Afa was transformed into wild-type E.coli W3110, and thus W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Afa (i.e., transformant) was prepared. 
 To obtain a gene fragment derived from the copper greedy strain, PCR was performed using chromosomal DNA of the copper greedy strain as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:39 and SEQ ID NO: 40. In addition, PCR was performed in the same manner as in the case of obtaining the gene fragment from the above-mentioned rhizosphere strain of helicobacter, except that a primer of SEQ ID NO. 41 was used for obtaining yccA promoter derived from Escherichia coli W3110 for use.  
 SEQ ID NO:39(Cne-3) 
 ATAGAGAGTGACTCAATGCAAAGCAAGAGCAAAGC 
 SEQ ID NO:40(Cne-4) 
 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCTCACGGTTCCTGGACACG 
 SEQ ID NO:41(PyccA(-Cne)-2) 
 GCTCTTGCTTTGCATTGAGTCACTCTCTATGACAG 
 Thus, a recombinant plasmid was obtained and designated as pCL1920-PyccA-Cne. The expression vector pCL1920-PyccA-Cne was transformed into wild-type E.coli W3110, and thus W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Cne (i.e., a transformant in which the gene was expressed) was prepared. 
 In order to obtain a gene fragment derived from E.coli strain, PCR was performed using the chromosomal DNA of E.coli str.K-12substr.MG1655 strain as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:42 and SEQ ID NO: 43. In addition, PCR was performed in the same manner as in the case of obtaining the gene fragment from the above-mentioned rhizosphere strain of helicobacter, except that the primer of SEQ ID NO:44 was used for obtaining yccA promoter derived from Escherichia coli W3110 for use. 
 SEQ ID NO:42(Eco-3) 
 ATAGAGAGTGACTCAATGACACGACAAAAAGCAAC 
 SEQ ID NO:43(Eco-4) 
 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCTTAACCACGACGTGTCGCC 
 SEQ ID NO:44(PyccA(-Eco)-2) 
 TTTTTGTCGTGTCATTGAGTCACTCTCTATGACAG 
 Thus, a recombinant plasmid was obtained and designated as pCL1920-PyccA-Eco. The expression vector pCL1920-PyccA-Eco was introduced into wild-type E.coli W3110, and thus W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Cne (i.e., transformant in which the gene was expressed) was prepared. 
 
 Example 9: measurement of MIC of E.coli in which genes derived from membrane proteins of various microorganisms were overexpressed 
 
 To confirm the resistance of E.coli strains in which the 5 types of genes prepared in example 8 were overexpressed (i.e., W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh, W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Pst, W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Afa, W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Cne, and W3110/pCL 1920-PyccA-Eco), minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) experiments were performed using tryptophan analogues and phenylalanine analogues. Coli strains in which 5 types of genes were overexpressed were cultured in M9 minimal liquid medium containing spectinomycin (50. Mu.g/mL) at 37℃for 15 hours, diluted to 10 respectively   4  Individual cells and 10  5  Concentration of individual cells, and then spot-like culture in M9 glucose minimal solid medium containing spectinomycin (50. Mu.g/mL) to which tryptophan analog or phenylalanine analog was added. For Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) experiments, p-fluoro-DL-phenylalanine (2 mg/mL) or 5-fluoro-DL-tryptophan (0.7. Mu.g/mL) was added to M9 minimal solid medium, and cell growth was observed after 48 hours (Table 3). 
 As in the corynebacterium glutamicum strain, when the gene derived from escherichia coli is overexpressed, the escherichia coli strain shows excellent growth with the addition of the phenylalanine analog, and overexpression of the gene derived from alcaligenes faecalis also shows significant growth. However, overexpression of genes derived from rhizosphere, pseudomonas stutzeri, and copper greedy, did not show comparable growth in W3110/pCL1920 (i.e., control). In contrast, overexpression of all 5 types of selected genes made it possible to grow all cells with the addition of tryptophan analogues. Among them, overexpression of genes derived from rhizosphere of helicobacter showed the highest growth, and overexpression of output genes derived from alcaligenes faecalis and escherichia coli showed the second highest growth. Overexpression of the export genes from Pseudomonas stutzeri and copper greedy hook showed negligible growth.  
 MIC experimental results for the 5 types of genes in the e.coli strain were similar to those observed in c. Genes derived from rhizosphere grass spiral bacteria show specificity and excellent resistance to tryptophan and analogues thereof in both Corynebacterium glutamicum and Escherichia coli strains, and export genes derived from Escherichia coli show higher export resistance to phenylalanine and analogues thereof than to tryptophan. From these results, it was determined that genes derived from rhizosphere helicobacter showed specificity and excellent export ability for tryptophan in corynebacterium glutamicum and escherichia coli strains. 
 TABLE 3 growth of E.coli strains in minimal medium containing phenylalanine analog or tryptophan analog in which each gene is overexpressed 
 
 
 
 
 Reference example 1: preparation of L-tryptophan-producing microorganism of Corynebacterium glutamicum 
 
 The strain producing L-tryptophan was developed from the wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 13869. Since wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum cannot produce L-tryptophan or can produce only very small amounts, if possible, attempts have been made to use strains in which the biosynthetic pathway necessary for the production of L-tryptophan is enhanced as parent strains. Specifically, the expression of the operator of the L-tryptophan biosynthesis gene is increased by enhancing the promoter. In addition, to release feedback inhibition of the TrpE protein, the 38 th amino acid of TrpE (i.e., serine) was replaced with arginine (Journal of Bacteriology, nov.1987, p.5330-5332).  
 For the above genetic manipulation, first, an upstream region of the trpE promoter and a downstream region of the 38 th amino acid mutation of the trpE were obtained for homologous recombination in chromosome. Specifically, a genetic fragment of the region upstream of the trpE promoter was obtained by performing PCR using the chromosomal DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO:45 and SEQ ID NO:46, whereas a genetic fragment of the region downstream of the 38 th amino acid mutation of TrpE was obtained by performing PCR using the chromosomal DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO:47 and SEQ ID NO: 48. 
 SEQ ID NO:45(Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_L-1) 
 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCAAACAACTGCGACGTGTGTC 
 SEQ ID NO:46(Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_L-2) 
 CATGAAGCGCCGGTACCTTAATCATTTTTGGGTTC 
 SEQ ID NO:47(Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_R-1) 
 GCCCTGTTGGAACGCGCTGATATCACCACCAAGAA 
 SEQ ID NO:48(Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_R-2) 
 CTCTAGAGGATCCCCAGATGTCACCGTTGTAAATG 
 Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase (solGent Co., ltd.) was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 5 min; 30 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 30 seconds, annealing at 60℃for 30 seconds, and polymerization at 72℃for 60 seconds; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 PCR was performed using the synthesized promoter SPL7 (SEQ ID NO: 49) as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:50 and SEQ ID NO: 51. 
 SEQ ID NO:50(Pspl7-1) 
 CCCAAAAATGATTAAGGTACCGGCGCTTCATGTCA 
 SEQ ID NO:51(Pspl7-2) 
 GGGATTCGTGCTCATGATATCTGTTTTGATCTCCTCC 
 Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase (solGent Co., ltd.) was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows:denaturation at 95℃for 5 min; 30 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 30 seconds, annealing at 60℃for 30 seconds, and polymerization at 72℃for 30 seconds; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes.  
 In order to obtain an upstream fragment of TrpE derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum (including the amino acid sequence from amino acid 1 to mutated amino acid 38), PCR was performed using the genomic DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:52 and SEQ ID NO: 53. 
 SEQ ID NO:52(trpE(S38R)-1) 
 ATCAAAACAGATATCATGAGCACGAATCCCCATGT 
 SEQ ID NO:53(trpE(S38R)-2) 
 GTGGTGATATCAGCGCGTTCCAACAGGGCTGCATC 
 Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase (solGent Co., ltd.) was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 5 min; 30 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 30 seconds, annealing at 60℃for 30 seconds, and polymerization at 72℃for 30 seconds; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 Recombinant plasmids were obtained by cloning the amplified upstream region of the trpE promoter and the mutated 38 th amino acid downstream region of the trpE, the SPL7 promoter and the upstream fragment of the trpE, and the pDZ vector cleaved with SmaI restriction enzyme using the Gibson assembly method. The recombinant plasmid was designated as pDZ-PSPL7-trpE (S38R). Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour. 
 The pDZ-PSPL7-trpE (S38R) vector prepared was transformed into Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 strain by electroporation and then subjected to secondary exchange. Then, a strain in which the promoter of trpE in the chromosome was replaced with SPL7 promoter (i.e., stronger promoter) and the 38 th amino acid of trpE (i.e., serine) was replaced with arginine was obtained. Corresponding genetic manipulation was confirmed by genome sequencing and PCR method using primers of SEQ ID NO:54 and SEQ ID NO:55, which can amplify the upstream region and the downstream region of homologous recombination of the inserted gene, and the resulting strain was designated CA04-8325. 
 SEQ ID NO. 54 (confirmed_Pspl7-trpE (S38R) -1) 
 GAAGAAGAGGCTGCAGATG 
 SEQ ID NO. 55 (confirmed_Pspl7-trpE (S38R) -2) 
 GATCAGCGCCATCATGTT 
 Tryptophan production occurs through an aromatic amino acid metabolic pathway and this metabolic pathway begins with the condensation reaction between phosphoenolpyruvate and erythrose 4-phosphate. Thus, smooth supply of both precursors is necessary for tryptophan production, and overexpression of the tkt gene is performed for smooth supply of erythrose 4-phosphate, which is known to be relatively absent. 
 For the above genetic manipulation, PCR was performed using chromosomal DNA of Corynebacterium glutamicum as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:56 and SEQ ID NO:57 to obtain an upstream region for additional insertion of tkt gene, and primers of SEQ ID NO:58 and SEQ ID NO:59 to obtain a downstream region for additional insertion of tkt gene. 
 SEQ ID NO:56(Pn-tkt_L-1) 
 TCGAGCTCGGTACCCAAACTTTGAGTGGGTGCGTG 
 SEQ ID NO:57(Pn-tkt_L-2) 
 TCGAGCTACGAGGGCGGTTCCCAGCCCTTCATTAG 
 SEQ ID NO:58(Pn-tkt_R-1) 
 ATTAACGGTTAATTGATTCTGGACGTCATGACTAC 
 SEQ ID NO:59(Pn-tkt_R-2) 
 CTCTAGAGGATCCCCGCCTCGATGATGCAGTCGTC 
 Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 30 sec; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 To obtain the tkt gene and its promoter, PCR was performed using the chromosomal DNA of wild-type Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13869 as a template and the primers of SEQ ID NO:60 and SEQ ID NO:61, and thus the tkt gene including its promoter was obtained.  
 SEQ ID NO:60(Pn-tkt-1) 
 GAAGGGCTGGGAACCGCCCTCGTAGCTCGAGAGTT 
 SEQ ID NO:61(Pn-tkt-2) 
 CATGACGTCCAGAATCAATTAACCGTTAATGGAGTCC 
 Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 1 min 20 sec; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 Recombinant plasmids were obtained by cloning an amplified upstream region for additional insertion of the tkt gene and a downstream region for additional insertion of the tkt gene, the tkt gene including the tkt promoter, and the pDZ vector for chromosomal transformation cleaved by SmaI restriction enzyme using the Gibson assembly method, and the resulting recombinant plasmids were named pDZ-Pn-tkt. Cloning was performed by mixing each of the Gibson assembly reagent and the gene fragment in calculated molar numbers and then incubating at 50℃for 1 hour. 
 The prepared pDZ-Pn-tkt vector was transformed into CJ04-8325 strain by electroporation and then subjected to secondary crossover to obtain a strain in which the tkt gene including the tkt promoter was inserted into a chromosome. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 62 and SEQ ID NO. 63, which can amplify the outer regions of the upstream region and the downstream region of homologous recombination inserted into the corresponding genes, respectively. The resulting strain was designated CA04-8352. The CA04-8352 strain was internationally deposited with the International depository Authority, korean microbiological deposit center (KCCM) according to the Budapest treaty on 2.2.2018, and assigned accession number KCCM12218P.  
 SEQ ID NO. 62 (acknowledgement_Pn-tkt-1) 
 ACCCAGAACCCCAAATTTTC 
 SEQ ID NO. 63 (acknowledgement_Pn-tkt-2) 
 TTGAGTTCGACAACTTTGG 
 
 Example 10: by microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium into which genes derived from rhizosphere of the genus helicobacter and Escherichia coli are introduced 
 Tryptophan production 
 
 A gene derived from rhizosphere spiral is introduced into CA04-8352, which shows excellent activity at the minimum inhibitory concentration of the tryptophan analog in example 7, and CA04-8352 is the tryptophan-producing strain prepared in reference example 1. For this purpose, the pDZTn-PgapA-Hrh vector for introducing the gene derived from rhizosphere spiral prepared in example 2 was transformed into CA04-8352 (i.e., tryptophan-producing strain) by electroporation and subjected to the procedure as in example 2, and thus a strain in which one copy of the gene derived from rhizosphere spiral was inserted between transposon genes was obtained. The resulting strain was designated CA04-8405. 
 In addition, a gene derived from E.coli was introduced into CA04-8352 (i.e., tryptophan-producing strain) as a control group. The pDZTn-PgapA-Eco vector for introducing the gene derived from E.coli prepared in example 6 was transformed into CA04-8352 (i.e., tryptophan-producing strain) by electroporation and the procedure as in example 6 was performed, and thus a strain in which one copy of the gene derived from E.coli was inserted between transposon genes was obtained. The resulting strain was designated CA04-8406. 
 Strains CA04-8405 and CA04-8406 obtained by the above procedure were cultured by the following methods to confirm tryptophan production relative to the CA04-8352 strain as a control group prepared in reference example 1. Each strain was inoculated into a 250mL corner-baffle flask (burner-buffer flask) containing seed medium (25 mL) and cultured with shaking at 200rpm at 30℃for 20 hours. Then, each seed culture solution (1 mL) was inoculated into a 250mL corner-baffle flask containing a production medium (25 mL) and cultured at 30℃with shaking at 200rpm for 24 hours. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production was measured by HPLC. 
 
 Seed culture medium (pH 7.0) 
 
 Glucose 20g, peptone 10g, yeast extract 5g, urea 1.5g, KH  2  PO  4   4g、K  2  HPO  4   8g、MgSO  4  ·7H  2  O0.5 g, biotin 100. Mu.g, thiamine hydrochloride 1000. Mu.g, calcium pantothenate 2000. Mu.g, nicotinamide 2000. Mu.g (based on 1L distilled water) 
 
 Production medium (pH 7.0) 
 
 Glucose 30g, (NH)  4  )  2  SO  4   15g、MgSO  4  ·7H  2  O 1.2g、KH  2  PO  4  1g, 5g of yeast extract, 900. Mu.g of biotin, 4500. Mu.g of thiamine hydrochloride, 4500. Mu.g of calcium pantothenate, caCO  3  30g (based on 1L distilled water) 
 TABLE 4 confirmation of L-tryptophan production by CA04-8352 (Corynebacterium glutamicum strain producing L-tryptophan), CA04-8405 (strain in which gene derived from Rhizoctonia solani was inserted), and CA04-8406 (strain in which gene derived from Escherichia coli was inserted)  
 
 
 
 The results of L-tryptophan production in the medium by the CA04-8352, CA04-8405 and CA04-8406 strains are shown in Table 4 above. The CA04-8405 strain into which the gene derived from rhizosphere of the genus Zosterae was introduced produced L-tryptophan at a final concentration of 1.52g/L in flask culture, and this was about 5-fold improvement over the CA04-8352 strain (i.e., control). This suggests that genes derived from rhizosphere grass spirochete can significantly increase L-tryptophan production in corynebacterium glutamicum strains. In contrast, the strain CA04-8406 introduced with the E.coli gene produced L-tryptophan at a concentration of 0.23g/L, which was almost the same as the L-tryptophan production of the strain CA04-8352 (i.e., the parent strain of the strain CA 04-8406). As confirmed in the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) experiments of tryptophan analogues and phenylalanine analogues confirmed in examples 7 and 9, the gene derived from escherichia coli was considered to be an output gene showing a higher specificity for phenylalanine than for tryptophan. The CA04-8405 strain was internationally deposited with the International depository organization for Korea microorganisms (KCCM) at 21/2017 under the provisions of the Budapest treaty, and assigned accession number KCCM12099P (CA 04-8405).  
 
 Example 11: analysis in Corynebacterium glutamicum into which genes derived from rhizosphere helicobacter were introducedIntracellular tryptamine 
 Acid metabolites 
 
 To clearly confirm whether the intracellular tryptophan concentration decreased with an increase in tryptophan output of the CA04-8405 strain (i.e., the tryptophan-producing strain), the intracellular tryptophan concentrations in the CA04-8405 strain and the CA04-8352 strain (i.e., the parent strain of the CA04-8405 strain) were measured by an extraction method using an organic solvent. 
 Methods for analyzing intracellular metabolites were performed according to the methods described in the references (Nakamura J et al, appl. Environ. Microbiol.73 (14): 4491-4498, 2007). 
 First, with respect to the mutant Corynebacterium glutamicum strains CA04-8352 and CA04-8405, each strain was inoculated into a 250mL corner-baffle flask containing a seed medium (25 mL) and cultured with shaking at 200rpm at 30℃for 20 hours. Then, each seed culture solution (1 mL) was inoculated into a 250mL corner-baffle flask containing a production medium (25 mL) and cultured with shaking at 200rpm at 30 ℃. Intracellular tryptophan concentrations were analyzed three times based on glucose consumption. The cultured cells in each step were separated from the broth by rapid vacuum filtration (Durapore HV,0.45 μm; millipore, billerica, mass.). The filter with cells adsorbed was washed twice with distilled water (10 mL) and immersed in methanol containing 5 μm morpholinoethanesulfonic acid and 5 μm methionine sulfone for 10 minutes. Chloroform (1.6 mL) and distilled water (0.64 μl) were added to the cell extract (1.6 mL) obtained above and mixed well, and only the aqueous phase was applied to a spin column to remove protein impurities. The filtered extracts were analyzed using capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry and the results are shown in figure 1. 
 As shown in FIG. 1, it was confirmed that the CA04-8405 strain showed a decrease in intracellular tryptophan concentration to a level of 33% to 41% as compared with the parent strain CA04-8352 thereof. These results indicate that tryptophan produced in cells of the Corynebacterium glutamicum strain was smoothly exported out of the cells due to the expression of genes derived from the rhizosphere helicobacter, and thus the intracellular tryptophan concentration of the CA04-8405 strain was reduced. From these results, it was confirmed that the gene derived from rhizosphere rhodospirillum was a gene encoding a membrane protein having tryptophan-specific export ability. 
 
 Reference example 2: preparation of L-tryptophan-producing microorganism of the genus Escherichia 
 
 L-tryptophan-producing microorganisms of the genus Escherichia were developed from wild-type E.coli W3110. To confirm whether tryptophan production is significantly increased with the modification of a protein having L-tryptophan output activity for expression, a strain prepared to produce L-tryptophan was used as a parent strain. Specifically, expression of the L-tryptophan biosynthesis gene (trpEDBA), which is involved in the production of L-tryptophan from Chorismate (chord), was inhibited by TrpR. Thus, trpR gene encoding trpR was removed. In addition, in order to release feedback inhibition of the TrpE polypeptide according to the increase in L-tryptophan production, the 21 st amino acid (i.e., proline) from the N-terminus of TrpE was substituted with serine (J.biochem. Mol. Biol.32,20-24 (1999)).  
 The Mtr membrane protein has an effect of introducing extracellular L-tryptophan into cells, and the TnaA protein has a function of decomposing intracellular L-tryptophan and water molecules into indole, pyruvic acid and ammonia (NH)  3  ) Is effective in (1). Thus, mtr and tnaA genes that inhibit L-tryptophan production and decompose L-tryptophan were removed. 
 To remove these genes, lambda-red recombination methods were used (one-step inactivation of chromosomal genes in E.coli K-12 using PCR products, datsenko KA, wanner BL., proc Natl Acad Sci USA.2000Jun 6;97 (12): 6640-6645). To remove the mtr gene, PCR was performed using the pKD4 vector as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO. 64 and SEQ ID NO. 65. As a result, a 1580bp gene fragment was obtained in which the FRT-kanamycin-FRT cassette was bound to a pair of 50bp homologous nucleotides flanking the mtr gene (in which chromosomal homologous recombination occurred therebetween). Kanamycin antibiotic marker of pKD4 vector was used to confirm removal of target gene and insertion of antibiotic gene, and FRT region had the effect of removing antibiotic marker after removal of target gene. 
 Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃ 1 minute; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 SEQ ID NO. 64 (Δmtr box-1) 
 TGCAATGCATAACAACGCAGTCGCACTATTTTTCACTGGAGAGAAGCCCTGTGTAGGCTGGAGCTGCTTC 
 SEQ ID NO. 65 (Deltamtr Box-2) 
 TGCAATGCATAACAACGCAGTCGCACTATTTTTCACTGGAGAGAAGCCCTGTCCATATGAATATCCTCCT 
 The pKD46 vector expressing the lambda red recombinase (gam, bet and exo genes) was transformed into E.coli W3110 strain by electroporation and the strain was plated on LB solid medium containing kanamycin (50 mg/L). When OD is  600  When about 0.1 was reached, it was confirmed that the expression of the recombinase was induced by the E.coli W3110 strain transformed with the pKD46 vector by adding 10mM L-arabinose. When OD is  600  When about 0.6 was reached, the strain was prepared as competent cells, and the linear gene fragment obtained in the above procedure was transformed by electroporation, in which the FRT-kanamycin-FRT cassette was bound to a pair of 50bp homologous nucleotides flanking the mtr gene. For colonies grown on LB solid medium containing kanamycin (25 mg/L), colony PCR was performed using the primers of SEQ ID NO:66 and SEQ ID NO:67, and colonies in which a 782bp gene fragment was produced were selected. 
 SEQ ID NO. 66 (confirmation_box-1) 
 GGGCAGGATCTCCTGTCATC 
 SEQ ID NO. 67 (confirmation_Δmtr-2) 
 AAATGTCGGATAAGGCACCG 
 Strains from which the mtr gene was removed due to the occurrence of homologous recombination were prepared as competent cells to remove kanamycin antibiotic markers, and then transformed with pCP20 vector by electroporation. The pCP20 vector expresses FLP protein and thereby recognizes and binds to FRT sites flanking kanamycin antibiotics in the chromosome, thereby removing antibiotic markers between FRT sites. The pCP20 vector-transformed strain grown in LB solid medium containing ampicillin (100 mg/L) and chloramphenicol (25 mg/L) was cultured in LB liquid medium at 30℃for 1 hour, further at 42℃for 15 hours, and spread on LB solid medium. In LB solid medium containing ampicillin (100 mg/L) and chloramphenicol (25 mg/L); LB solid medium containing kanamycin (12.5 mg/L); and culturing the grown colonies in LB solid medium without antibiotics. Only colonies grown in LB solid medium without antibiotic were selected. Finally, removal of the mtr gene was confirmed by genome sequencing, and the strain was named CA04-9300. 
 Genetic manipulation was performed by the above method to remove the tnaA gene. PCR was performed using the pKD4 vector as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:68 and SEQ ID NO:69, and thereby a 1580bp gene fragment was obtained in which the FRT-kanamycin-FRT cassette was bound to a pair of 50bp homologous nucleotides flanking the tnaA gene (in which chromosomal homologous recombination occurred therebetween). Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase was used as the polymerase, and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 1 min; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 SEQ ID NO. 68 (DeltatnaA Box-1) 
 TGTAATATTCACAGGGATCACTGTAATTAAAATAAATGAAGGATTATGTAGTGTAGGCTGGAGCTGCTTC 
 SEQ ID NO. 69 (DeltatnaA Box-2) 
 TGTAGGGTAAGAGAGTGGCTAACATCCTTATAGCCACTCTGTAGTATTAAGTCCATATGAATATCCTCCT 
 Transformation of the pKD46 vector was confirmed. CA04-9300 (in which the recombinase is expressed by addition of 10mM L-arabinose) was transformed by electroporation using the linear gene fragment obtained in the above procedure (in which the FRT-kanamycin-FRT cassette was bound to a pair of 50bp homologous nucleotides flanking the tnaA gene). For colonies grown on LB solid medium containing kanamycin (25 mg/L), colony PCR was performed using the primers of SEQ ID NO:66 and SEQ ID NO:70, and colonies in which a 787bp gene fragment was produced were selected.  
 SEQ ID NO. 70 (confirmed-. DELTA.tnaA-2) 
 ACATCCTTATAGCCACTCTG 
 Strains in which the tnaA gene was removed due to homologous recombination were prepared as competent cells to remove the kanamycin antibiotic marker, and then transformed with pCP20 vector, and strains in which the kanamycin antibiotic marker was removed by expression of FLP protein were prepared. Finally, removal of the tnaA gene was confirmed by genome sequencing, and the strain was named CA04-9301. 
 To remove the trpR gene, PCR was performed using the pKD4 vector as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:71 and SEQ ID NO:72, and thereby a gene fragment (1580 bp) was obtained in which the FRT-kanamycin-FRT cassette was bound to a pair of 50bp homologous nucleotides flanking the trpR gene (in which chromosomal homologous recombination occurred therebetween). Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase was used as the polymerase, and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 40 sec, and polymerization at 72℃for 1 min; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 SEQ ID NO. 71 (DeltatrpR cassette-1) 
 TACAACCGGGGGAGGCATTTTGCTTCCCCCGCTAACAATGGCGACATATTGTGTAGGCTGGAGCTGCTTC 
 SEQ ID NO. 72 (DeltatrpR cassette-2) 
 GCATTCGGTGCACGATGCCTGATGCGCCACGTCTTATCAGGCCTACAAAAGTCCATATGAATATCCTCCT 
 Transformation of the pKD46 vector was confirmed. CA04-9301 (in which the recombinase is expressed by addition of 10mM L-arabinose) was transformed by electroporation using the linear gene fragment obtained in the above procedure (in which the FRT-kanamycin-FRT cassette was bound to a pair of 50bp homologous nucleotides flanking the trpR gene). For colonies grown on LB solid medium containing kanamycin (25 mg/L), colony PCR was performed using the primers of SEQ ID NO:66 and SEQ ID NO:73, and colonies in which the 838bp gene fragment was produced were selected.  
 SEQ ID NO. 73 (confirmed-. DELTA.trpR-2) 
 AGGACGGATAAGGCGTTCAC 
 Strains from which trpR gene was removed due to homologous recombination were prepared as competent cells to remove kanamycin antibiotic markers, and then transformed with pCP20 vector, and strains from which kanamycin antibiotic markers were removed by expression of FLP protein were prepared. Finally, removal of trpR gene was confirmed by genome sequencing, and this strain was designated CA04-9307. 
 To provide the CA04-9307 strain with the feedback resistance trpE trait, PCR was performed using E.coli W3110 gDNA as a template and primers of SEQ ID NO:74 and SEQ ID NO:75, both of which contain EcoRI restriction sites, and thereby a 1575bp trpE gene fragment containing EcoRI restriction sites was obtained. Solg is added to  TM  Pfu-X DNA polymerase was used as the polymerase and PCR was performed as follows: denaturation at 95℃for 2 min; 27 cycles of denaturation at 95℃for 20 sec, annealing at 62℃for 1 min, and polymerization at 72℃for 1 min; and polymerizing at 72℃for 5 minutes. 
 SEQ ID NO:74(trpE-1) 
 GAATTCATGCAAACACAAAAACCGAC 
 SEQ ID NO:75(trpE-2) 
 GAATTCTCAGAAAGTCTCCTGTGCA 
 Cloning was performed after the trpE gene fragment and pSG76-C plasmid (Journal of Bacteriology, july 1997, p.4426-4428) obtained by the above method were treated with EcoRI restriction enzyme, respectively. The cloned plasmid was transformed into E.coli DH 5. Alpha. By electroporation, and the transformed E.coli DH 5. Alpha. Strain was selected on LB plate containing chloramphenicol (25. Mu.g/mL), and thereby pSG76-C-trpE plasmid was obtained.  
 pSG76-C-trpE (P21S) was prepared by site-directed mutagenesis (Stratagene, USA) using the pSG76-C-trpE plasmid obtained above and the primers of SEQ ID NO:76 and SEQ ID NO: 77. 
 SEQ ID NO:76(trpE(P21S)-1) 
 CGCTTATCGCGACAATTCCACCGCGCTTTTTCACCAG 
 SEQ ID NO:77(trpE(P21S)-2) 
 CTGGTGAAAAAGCGCGGTGGAATTGTCGCGATAAGCG 
 pSG76-C-trpE (P21S) plasmid was transformed into CA04-9307 strain, cultured in LB-Cm medium (yeast extract 10g/L, naCl g/L, tryptone 10g/L, and chloramphenicol 25. Mu.g/L), and colonies resistant to chloramphenicol were selected. The transformant selected was a strain in which the pSG76-C-trpE (P21S) plasmid was inserted into the trpE region of the genome by first insertion. The strain (Journal of Bacteriology, july 1997, p.4426-4428) into which the trpE (P21S) gene obtained was inserted was transformed with pAscep plasmid which expresses restriction enzyme I-SceI that cleaves the I-SceI region present in pSG76-C plasmid, and strains grown in LB-Ap (yeast extract 10g/L, naCl g/L, tryptone 10g/L, and ampicillin 100. Mu.g/L) were selected. The trpE gene in the selected strain was amplified using the primers of SEQ ID NO. 74 and SEQ ID NO. 75, and it was confirmed by sequencing that the amplified trpE gene was replaced with the trpE (P21S) gene. The strain thus prepared was designated CA04-4303. 
 
 Example 12: l-tryptophan production by microorganisms of the genus Escherichia into which genes derived from rhizosphere of the genus helicobacter are introduced  
 
 The pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh prepared in example 8 was introduced into the CA04-4303 strain prepared in referential example 2, and thereby a CA04-4306 strain in which a gene derived from rhizosphere of helicobacter was overexpressed was prepared. In addition, pCL1920 vector as a control group was transformed into CA04-4303 strain. To confirm L-tryptophan production in both strains (i.e., CA04-4303/pCL1920 and CA 04-4306), these strains were cultured in LB liquid medium containing spectinomycin (50 mg/L) for 12 hours. These strains were then each inoculated into a 250mL corner-baffle flask containing 25mL of production medium, such that the initial OD  600  The value became 0.01, and then cultured with shaking at 200rpm at 37℃for 48 hours. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production was measured by HPLC. 
 The results for L-tryptophan production in the CA04-4303/pCL1920 and CA04-4306 strains in the medium are shown in Table 5 below. Strain CA04-4306, into which a gene derived from rhizosphere of helicobacter was introduced and overexpressed, showed a final L-tryptophan concentration of 2.1g/L in flask culture, which was about 50% higher than that of the control group. This suggests that genes derived from rhizosphere grass spirochete can also export L-tryptophan in e.coli and thereby significantly increase its L-tryptophan production.  
 
 Production medium (pH 7.0) 
 
 Glucose 70g, (NH)  4  )  2  SO  4   20g、MgSO  4  ·7H  2  O 1g、KH  2  PO  4  2g, yeast extract 2.5g, sodium citrate 5g, naCl 1g and CaCO  3  40g (based on 1L distilled water) 
 TABLE 5 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing strain derived from E.coli (CA 04-4303) and L-tryptophan-producing strain in which the output gene derived from P.rhizogenes was overexpressed (CA 04-4306) 
 
 
 
 Thus, it can be seen from the results of examples 7 and 9 that the gene derived from rhizosphere of helicobacter shows high specificity and excellent resistance to L-tryptophan and analogues thereof. From the results of examples 10 and 12, it can be seen that the genes derived from rhizosphere of helicobacter increased L-tryptophan production in both Corynebacterium glutamicum and Escherichia coli strains. In addition, it was observed in example 11 that genes derived from rhizosphere of helicobacter output tryptophan substantially extracellularly. As a result, the gene derived from rhizosphere of the genus Sphaeromyces was designated as wex (tryptophan [ (] W ) Output of Genes). 
 
 Example 13: wex export ability improvement using random mutagenesis 
 
 In this example, error-prone PCR was performed to apply random mutagenesis to the wild-type wex gene, and a diversified PCR random mutagenesis kit (Diversify PCR Random Mutagenesis Kit) (Clontech, USA) was used in performing error-prone PCR.  
 To obtain variants of the wex gene introduced with random mutagenesis, error-prone PCR was performed using pCL1920-PyccA-wex prepared in example 8 as a template, SEQ ID NO:78 and SEQ ID NO: 79. 
 To select mutation rate conditions, the following is based on MnSO  4  Error-prone PCR was performed with both compositions. 
 SEQ ID NO:78(wex-1) 
 ACTCTAGAGGATCCCCTTCCAGATCAAATGCGTAA 
 SEQ ID NO:79(wex-2) 
 ATTCGAGCTCGGTACCCCTACAAACAGTCCGCCAC 
 TABLE 6 composition for error-prone PCR (Unit: μL) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Case #
 
 1
 
 2
 
 
 
 10X titanium Taq buffer solution
 
 5
 
 5
 
 
 
 MnSO  4  (8mM)
 
 1
 
 2
 
 
 
 dGTP(2mM)
 
 1
 
 1
 
 
 
 50X Diversify dNTP mixture
 
 1
 
 1
 
 
 
 Titanium Taq polymerase
 
 1
 
 1
 
 
 
 Primer mixture
 
 2
 
 2
 
 
 
 Template DNA (1 ng/uL)
 
 1
 
 1
 
 
 
 PCR grade water
 
 38
 
 37
 
 
 
 Total volume of
 
 50
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 7 error-prone PCR cycling 
 
 
 
 Using the products of error-prone PCR (which was performed under the conditions of tables 6 and 7) and pCL1920 (which was cleaved with SmaI restriction enzyme), a library of recombinant mutant plasmids was obtained by the Gibson assembly method (DG Gibson et al, nature Methods, VOL.6No.5, MAY 2009,NEBuilder HiFi DNA Assembly Master Mix). The mutant library, pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh and pCL1920 obtained by the above methods were transformed into E.coli W3110 cells, cultured in LB plate medium containing spectinomycin (50 g/L), and 50 colonies were screened from the mutant library. Sequencing was performed to determine their mutation rate and the presence/absence of mutations at various positions. As a result of sequencing, the mutation rate of the case #1 condition was 1.3kb-1, and the mutation rate of the case #2 condition was 2.5kb-1. Both cases #1 and #2 were determined to meet mutation rates suitable for obtaining a library of mutants, and a process of screening for effective mutations was performed using the library prepared under the above conditions.  
 300. Mu.L of M9 minimal medium containing 50. Mu.g/mL of 5' -fluorotryptophan (i.e., L-tryptophan analog) was aliquoted into each well of a 96-deep well plate, followed by inoculation of each colony of the previously transformed mutant library (i.e., W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh, W3110/pCL1920, and W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library). The incubation was carried out at 1200rpm/37℃and after 16 hours the OD was measured at 600 nm. As in the case of the control strains (W3110/pCL 1920 and W3110/pCL 1920-PyccA-Hrh), almost no growth of the majority of mutant libraries was observed in the deep-well plates. Among them, 51 colonies with improved growth were selected, and pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant plasmids were extracted from the colonies, respectively, and reconverted into E.coli W3110 strain to evaluate reproducibility. In M9 minimal medium, which typically contains 5' -fluorotryptophan at a concentration of 50. Mu.g/mL, 10 strains showing improved specific growth in M9 minimal medium were observed and their OD was recorded. 
 TABLE 8 wex library wherein growth is improved in minimal medium containing L-tryptophan analogues 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Optical Density (OD)  600  )
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920
 
 0.189
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-Hrh
 
 0.393
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (1-3 8G)
 
 0.791
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (1-4 6D)
 
 1.026
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (2-1 10C)
 
 0.748
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (2-12 8C)
 
 0.773
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (2-15B)
 
 0.825
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (2-18 3F)
 
 0.921
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (3-3D)
 
 0.831
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (3-6 11F)
 
 0.749
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (5-5 10B)
 
 0.766
 
 
 
 W3110/pCL1920-PyccA-wex mutant library (5-18B)
 
 0.783 
 
 
 
 
 
 After the pCL 1920-pyvca-wex mutant plasmids were extracted from the 10 selected mutant strains, sequencing was performed to confirm their mutation, and as a result, it was confirmed that the mutation occurred in the coding sequence (CDS), which is not in the promoter region. In addition, it was confirmed that mutation sites in 8 of 10 mutants were concentrated in the region from 79 th amino acid (i.e., leucine) to 83 th amino acid (i.e., isoleucine) of the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein, and that most of the mutations were substituted with hydrophobic amino acids, aliphatic amino acids, or relatively small L-amino acids. Thus, it was determined that positions 79 to 83 of the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein could be the core region into which mutations were introduced to increase L-tryptophan export ability. In this regard, attempts have been made to increase the activity of various hydrophobic amino acid(s), aliphatic amino acid(s), or relatively small L-amino acid(s) by substituting the amino acid(s) in the corresponding sequence.  
 
 Example 14: 79 th amino acid (leucine) of Wex sequence in microorganism of Corynebacterium genus is hydrophobic 
 Substitution of 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan by substituting the 79 th amino acid leucine (hereinafter referred to as 79 th or leucine at 79 th position) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed using pDZTn-PgapA-Hrh prepared in example 2 as a template to produce mutations of three different amino acids other than leucine. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the following method. 
 TABLE 9 PCR composition for site-directed mutagenesis 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Unit (mu L)
 
 
 
 10 Xpfu-X buffer
 
 5
 
 
 
 10mM dNTP mix
 
 1
 
 
 
 pfu-X polymerase
 
 1
 
 
 
 Mutagenesis forward primer (5 pmol)
 
 2
 
 
 
 Reverse primer for mutagenesis (5 pmol)
 
 2
 
 
 
 pDZTn-PgapA-Hrh (template DNA,200 ng/. Mu.L)
 
 1
 
 
 
 dH  2  O
 
 38
 
 
 
 Totals to
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 10 PCR cycle for site-directed mutagenesis 
 
 
 
 For each substitution of amino acid 79 (i.e., leucine) of the Wex amino acid sequence with a different hydrophobic amino acid (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:80, SEQ ID NO: 131), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:81, SEQ ID NO: 132), and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:82, SEQ ID NO: 133)), PCR mixtures were prepared as shown in Table 9 using the respective mutagenesis primer sets shown in Table 11, and PCR was performed according to the following methods as shown in Table 10. After completion of PCR, 1. Mu.L of DpnI restriction enzyme was added thereto, and the mixture was treated at 37℃for 1 hour. mu.L of DpnI-treated DNA was transformed into DH 5. Alpha. Competent cells to obtain mutant pDZTn-PgapA-wex plasmid, and each mutation shown in Table 11 was confirmed by sequencing.  
 TABLE 11 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid in which the 79 th amino acid of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately for introduction into a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium 
 
 
 
 The pDZTn-PgapA-well L79A, pDZTn-PgapA-well L79V and the pDZTn-PgapA-well L79I vectors prepared as shown in Table 11 were each transformed into the CA04-8352 strain prepared in referential example 1 by electroporation, and then subjected to secondary crossover to obtain three strains in which the mutant wex gene was inserted into the chromosome, respectively. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer region of the homologous recombination upstream region and downstream region inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively. 
 The obtained mutants were named CA04-8352 (wex L79A), CA04-8352 (wex L79V) and CA04-8352 (wex L79I), respectively. 
 To confirm tryptophan production in the CA04-8352, CA04-8405, CA04-8352 (wex L79A), CA04-8352 (wex L79V) and CA04-8352 (wex L79I) strains, these strains were cultured by the same method as in example 10. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC.  
 TABLE 12 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing strains derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum (CA 04-8352), strains in which the L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was inserted (CA 04-8405), and mutants in which amino acid 79 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-8352 (Wex L79A), CA04-8352 (Wex L79V) and CA04-8352 (Wex L79I)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of table 12, all of the three mutants in which leucine at position 79 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 1.59% p to 2.95% p, compared to the CA04-8405 strain into which wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, the Wex L79A mutant showed the greatest increase in L-tryptophan fermentation yield, and these results indicate that substitution of leucine at position 79 of the Wex amino acid sequence with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output ability of Wex. 
 
 Example 15: 80 th amino acid (serine) of Wex sequence in microorganism of Corynebacterium genus is hydrophobic amino acid 
 Substitution of 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the efficacy of outputting L-tryptophan by substituting the 80 th amino acid serine (hereinafter referred to as serine at 80 th position) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the same method as in example 14 using pDZTn-PgapA-wex as a template to generate mutations that are four different types of hydrophobic amino acids.  
 In addition, serine at position 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with each of different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:89, SEQ ID NO: 134), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:90, SEQ ID NO: 135), leucine (L) (SEQ ID NO:91, SEQ ID NO: 136) and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:92, SEQ ID NO: 137)) using the same method as in example 14. The mutagenesis primer set and the mutant form used to obtain the pDZTn-PgapA-wex mutant plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 13 below. 
 TABLE 13 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid in which the amino acid at position 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately for introduction into a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium 
 
 
 
 pDZTn-PgapA-well S80A, pDZTn-PgapA-well S80V, pDZTn-PgapA-well S80L and pDZTn-PgapA-well S80I vectors prepared as shown in Table 13 were each transformed into CA04-8352 strain by electroporation, and then subjected to secondary crossover to obtain four strains in which the mutant wex gene was inserted into chromosome, respectively. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer region of the homologous recombination upstream region and downstream region inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively.  
 The obtained mutants were named CA04-8352 (wex S80A), CA04-8352 (wex S80V), CA04-8352 (wex S80L), and CA04-8352 (wex S80I), respectively. 
 To confirm tryptophan production among the CA04-8352, CA04-8405, CA04-8352 (wex S80A), CA04-8352 (wex S80V), CA04-8352 (wex S80L), and CA04-8352 (wex S80I) strains, these strains were cultured by the same method as in example 10. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC. 
 TABLE 14 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing strains derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum (CA 04-8352), strains in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was inserted (CA 04-8405), and mutants in which amino acid 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-8352 (Wex S80A), CA04-8352 (Wex S80V), CA04-8352 (Wex S80L) and CA04-8352 (Wex S80I)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 14, all of the four mutants in which the amino acid at position 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was substituted with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 1.99% p to 2.62% p, as compared with the CA04-8405 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, the Wex S80V mutant shows the greatest increase in L-tryptophan fermentation yield, and these results indicate that substitution of serine at position 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output ability of Wex.  
 
 Example 16: amino acid 81 (leucine) of the Wex sequence in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium is replaced by a hydrophobic amino acid 
 Substitution of 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan by substituting the 81 st amino acid leucine (hereinafter referred to as leucine at position 81) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the same method as in example 14 using pDZTn-PgapA-wex as a template to generate mutations that are three different types of hydrophobic amino acids other than leucine. 
 In addition, leucine at position 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with each of the different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:101, SEQ ID NO: 138), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:102, SEQ ID NO: 139), and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:103, SEQ ID NO: 140)) using the same method as in example 14. The mutagenesis primer set and the mutant form used to obtain the pDZTn-PgapA-wex mutant plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 15 below. 
 TABLE 15 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid in which the amino acid at position 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately for introduction into a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium  
 
 
 
 The pDZTn-PgapA-well L81A, pDZTn-PgapA-well L81V and pDZTn-PgapA-well L81I vectors prepared as shown in Table 15 were each transformed into the CA04-8352 strain by electroporation, and then subjected to secondary crossover to obtain three strains in which the mutant wex gene was inserted into the chromosome, respectively. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer region of the homologous recombination upstream region and downstream region inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively. 
 The obtained mutants were named CA04-8352 (wex L81A), CA04-8352 (wex L81V) and CA04-8352 (wex L81I), respectively. 
 To confirm tryptophan production in CA04-8352, CA04-8405, CA04-8352 (wex L81A), CA04-8352 (wex L81V) and CA04-8352 (wex L81I), these strains were cultured in the same manner as in example 10. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC. 
 TABLE 16]Identification of L-tryptophan-producing Strain derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum (CA 04-8352), into which L-tryptophan-export Gene was inserted [ (] wex ) L-tryptophan production in the strain (CA 04-8405), and in the mutant in which amino acid 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-8352 (Wex L81A), CA04-8352 (Wex L81V) and CA04-8352 (Wex L81I)))  
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 16, all of the three mutants in which the amino acid at position 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 2.03% p to 2.87% p, as compared with the CA04-8405 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, the Wex L81A mutant showed the greatest increase in the fermentation yield of L-tryptophan, and these results indicate that substitution of leucine at position 81 of the amino acid sequence of Wex with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output ability of Wex. 
 
 Example 17: the 82 nd amino acid (serine) of the Wex sequence in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium is hydrophobic 
 Substitution of 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan by substituting the 82 nd amino acid serine (hereinafter referred to as serine at position 82) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed using pDZTn-PgapA-wex as a template to generate mutations for four different types of hydrophobic amino acids using the same method as in example 14. 
 In addition, serine at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with each of different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:110, SEQ ID NO: 141), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:111, SEQ ID NO: 142), leucine (L) (SEQ ID NO:112, SEQ ID NO: 143), and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:113, SEQ ID NO: 144)) using the same method as in example 14. The mutagenesis primer set and the mutant form used to obtain the pDZTn-PgapA-wex mutant plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 17 below.  
 TABLE 17 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid in which the amino acid at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately for introduction into a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium 
 
 
 
 pDZTn-PgapA-well S82A, pDZTn-PgapA-well S82V, pDZTn-PgapA-well S82L and pDZTn-PgapA-well S82I vectors prepared as shown in Table 17 were each transformed into CA04-8352 strain by electroporation, and then subjected to secondary crossover to obtain four strains in which the mutant wex gene was inserted into chromosome, respectively. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer region of the homologous recombination upstream region and downstream region inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively. 
 The obtained mutants were named CA04-8352 (wex S82A), CA04-8352 (wex S82V), CA04-8352 (wex S82L), and CA04-8352 (wex S82I), respectively. 
 To confirm the production of tryptophan in the CA04-8352, CA04-8405, CA04-8352 (wex S82A), CA04-8352 (wex S82V), CA04-8352 (wex S82L), and CA04-8352 (wex S82I) strains, these strains were cultured by the same method as in example 10. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC.  
 TABLE 18 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing strains derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum (CA 04-8352), strains in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was inserted (CA 04-8405), and mutants in which amino acid 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-8352 (Wex S82A), CA04-8352 (Wex S82V), CA04-8352 (Wex S82L) and CA04-8352 (Wex S82I)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 18, all of the four mutants in which the amino acid at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was substituted with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 1.40% p to 2.76% p, as compared with the CA04-8405 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, the Wex S82A mutant showed the greatest increase in L-tryptophan fermentation yield, and these results indicate that substitution of serine at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output ability of Wex. 
 
 Example 18: amino acid 83 of the Wex sequence (isoleucine) in a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium is replaced by a hydrophobic amino group 
 Acid substitution 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan by substituting the 83 rd amino acid isoleucine (hereinafter referred to as 83 rd isoleucine) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the same method as in example 14 using pDZTn-PgapA-wex as a template to generate mutations that are three different types of hydrophobic amino acids other than isoleucine.  
 In addition, isoleucine at position 83 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with each of the different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:122, SEQ ID NO: 145), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:123, SEQ ID NO: 146) and leucine (L) (SEQ ID NO:124, SEQ ID NO: 147)) using the same method as in example 14. The mutagenesis primer set and the mutant form used to obtain the pDZTn-PgapA-wex mutant plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 19 below. 
 TABLE 19 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid in which the 83 rd amino acid of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately for introduction into a microorganism of Corynebacterium genus 
 
 
 
 The pDZTn-PgapA-well I83A, pDZTn-PgapA-well I83V and pDZTn-PgapA-well I83L vectors prepared as shown in Table 19 were each transformed into the CA04-8352 strain by electroporation, and then subjected to secondary crossover to obtain three strains in which the mutant wex gene was inserted into the chromosome, respectively. Corresponding genetic manipulations were confirmed by genomic sequencing and PCR methods using primers of SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 8, each of which can amplify the outer region of the homologous recombination upstream region and downstream region inserted into the corresponding gene, respectively.  
 The obtained mutants were named CA04-8352 (wex I83A), CA04-8352 (wex I83V) and CA04-8352 (wex I83L), respectively. 
 To confirm the production of tryptophan in the CA04-8352, CA04-8405, CA04-8352 (wex I83A), CA04-8352 (wex I83V) and CA04-8352 (wex I83L) strains, these strains were cultured by the same method as in example 10. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC. 
 TABLE 20 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing strains derived from Corynebacterium glutamicum (CA 04-8352), strains in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was inserted (CA 04-8405), and mutants in which amino acid at position 83 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-8352 (Wex I83A), CA04-8352 (Wex I83V) and CA04-8352 (Wex I83L)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 20, all of the three mutants in which the amino acid at position 83 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 1.73% p to 2.36% p, as compared with the CA04-8405 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, the Wex I83L mutant showed the greatest increase in L-tryptophan fermentation yield, and these results indicate that substitution of isoleucine at position 83 of the Wex amino acid sequence with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the Wex in L-tryptophan output. From the results shown in examples 2 to 6 above, it was confirmed that substitution of amino acids 79 to 83 in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with different hydrophobic amino acids can significantly increase the activity of L-tryptophan export ability in Corynebacterium glutamicum strains.  
 CA04-8352 (wex L79I), CA04-8352 (wex S80V), CA04-8352 (wex L81V), CA04-8352 (wex S82V) and CA04-8352 (wex I83L) strains into which the mutant wex of the present disclosure was introduced were designated as CM05-9022, CM05-9023, CM05-9024, CM05-9025 and CM05-9026, respectively. These strains were internationally deposited with the international agency of preservation of korean microbiological deposit (KCCM) according to the rules of the budapest treaty on 3 and 29 of 2019, and assigned accession numbers KCCM12475P, KCCM, 12476P, KCCM, 12477, P, KCCM, 12478P and KCCM12479P, respectively. 
 
 Example 19: amino acid (leucine) at position 79 of Wex sequence in microorganism of genus Escherichia is hydrophobic 
 Acid substitution 
 
 The effect of improving the L-tryptophan export ability activity by introducing a Wex mutation into a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium as shown in examples 14 to 18 described above was confirmed again in a microorganism of the genus Escherichia. 
 As in the coryneform microorganism, attempts have been made to confirm the improved efficacy of L-tryptophan export in the Escherichia microorganism by substituting the 79 th amino acid (i.e., leucine) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed using pCL 1920-pyvca-Hrh prepared in example 8 as a template to generate mutations that are three different types of hydrophobic amino acids other than leucine. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the following method.  
 TABLE 21 PCR composition of site-directed mutagenesis 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Unit (mu L)
 
 
 
 10X pfu-X bufferFlushing liquid
 
 5
 
 
 
 10mM dNTP mix
 
 1
 
 
 
 pfu-X polymerase
 
 1
 
 
 
 Mutagenesis forward primer (5 pmol)
 
 2
 
 
 
 Reverse primer for mutagenesis (5 pmol)
 
 2
 
 
 
 pDZTn-PgapA-Hrh (template DNA,200 ng/. Mu.L)
 
 1
 
 
 
 dH  2  O
 
 38
 
 
 
 Totals to
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 22 PCR cycle of site-directed mutagenesis 
 
 
 
 To replace the amino acid at position 79 of the Wex amino acid sequence (i.e., leucine) with each of the different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:80, SEQ ID NO: 131), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:81, SEQ ID NO: 132) and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:82, SEQ ID NO: 133), PCR mixtures were prepared as shown in Table 21 using the respective mutagenic primer sets shown in Table 23, and PCR was performed according to the following methods shown in Table 22. After completion of PCR, 1. Mu.L of DpnI restriction enzyme was added thereto, and the mixture was treated at 37℃for 1 hour. mu.L of DpnI-treated DNA was transformed into DH 5. Alpha. Competent cells to obtain mutant pCL1920-PgapA-wex plasmid, and each of the mutations shown in Table 23 was confirmed by sequencing. 
 TABLE 23 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid expressed in Escherichia microorganism in which the 79 th amino acid of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately  
 
 
 
 The pCL 1920-PyccA-well L79A, pCL 1920-PyccA-well L79V and pCL 1920-PyccA-well L79I vectors prepared as shown in Table 23 were each transformed into the CA04-4303 strain by electroporation, and thereby three strains in which each of the mutant wex genes different from each other in amino acid 79 was introduced were obtained. The obtained mutants were named CA04-4303 (wex L79A), CA04-4303 (wex L79V) and CA04-4303 (wex L79I), respectively. 
 To confirm tryptophan production in the CA04-4303 (Wex L79A), CA04-4303 (Wex L79V) and CA04-4303 (Wex L79I) strains prepared in example 12 using the CA04-4303 (pCL 1920) and CA04-4306 strains as control groups, these strains were cultured by the same method as in example 12. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC. 
 TABLE 24 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing Strain derived from E.coli (CA 04-4303 (pCL 1920)), strain in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was expressed (CA 04-4306), and mutant in which amino acid at position 79 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-4303 (Wex L79A), CA04-4303 (Wex L79V), and CA04-4303 (Wex L79I)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 24, all of the three mutants in which the 79 th amino acid of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 0.6% p to 1.5% p, as compared with the CA04-4306 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, as in the strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum producing L-tryptophan, the Escherichia coli strain having the Wex L79A mutation showed the greatest improvement in fermentation yield of L-tryptophan, and these results indicate that substitution of leucine at position 79 of the amino acid sequence of Wex with different hydrophobic amino acids can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan export ability of Wex in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia as well as in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium.  
 
 Example 20: amino acid (serine) at position 80 of Wex sequence in microorganism of genus Escherichia is hydrophobic amino group 
 Acid substitution 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia by replacing serine at position 80 in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the same method as in example 19 using pCL1920-PyccA-wex as a template to generate mutations for four different types of hydrophobic amino acids. 
 In addition, serine at position 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with each of different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:89, SEQ ID NO: 134), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:90, SEQ ID NO: 135), leucine (L) (SEQ ID NO:91, SEQ ID NO: 136) and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:92, SEQ ID NO: 137)) using the same method as in example 19. The set of mutagenesis primers and the mutant form used to obtain the mutant pCL1920-PyccA-wex plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 25 below. 
 TABLE 25 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid expressed in Escherichia microorganism in which amino acid 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately  
 
 
 
 The pCL 1920-PyccA-well S80A, pCL 1920-PyccA-well S80V, pCL 1920-PyccA-well S80L and pCL 1920-PyccA-well S80I vectors prepared as shown in Table 25 were each transformed into the CA04-4303 strain by electroporation, and thereby four strains in which each of the mutant wex genes different from each other was introduced in amino acid 80 were obtained. The obtained mutants were named CA04-4303 (wex S80A), CA04-4303 (wex S80V), CA04-4303 (wex S80L) and CA04-4303 (wex S80I), respectively. 
 To confirm the production of tryptophan in the CA04-4303 (pCL 1920), CA04-4306, CA04-4303 (wex S80A), CA04-4303 (wex S80V), CA04-4303 (wex S80L) and CA04-4303 (wex S80I) strains, these strains were cultured using the same method as in example 12. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC. 
 TABLE 26 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing Strain derived from E.coli (CA 04-4303 (pCL 1920)), strain in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was expressed (CA 04-4306), and mutant strain in which amino acid at position 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-4303 (Wex S80A), CA04-4303 (Wex S80V), CA04-4303 (Wex S80L) and CA04-4303 (Wex S80I))  
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 26, all of the four mutants in which the amino acid at position 80 of the Wex amino acid sequence was substituted with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 0.3% p to 1.2% p, as compared with the CA04-4306 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, as in the strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum producing L-tryptophan, the E.coli strain having the Wex S80V mutation also shows the greatest improvement in fermentation yield of L-tryptophan, and these results indicate that substitution of serine at position 80 of the amino acid sequence of Wex with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output ability of Wex in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia as well as in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium. 
 
 Example 21: amino acid (leucine) at position 81 of Wex sequence in microorganism of genus Escherichia is hydrophobic 
 Acid substitution 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia by substituting leucine at position 81 in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the same method as in example 19 using pCL1920-PyccA-wex as a template to generate mutations that are three different types of hydrophobic amino acids other than leucine.  
 In addition, leucine at position 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with each of the different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:101, SEQ ID NO: 138), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:102, SEQ ID NO: 139) and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:103, SEQ ID NO: 140)) using the same method as in example 19. The set of mutagenesis primers and the mutant form used to obtain the mutant pCL1920-PyccA-wex plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 27 below. 
 TABLE 27 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid expressed in Escherichia microorganism in which amino acid 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately 
 
 
 
 The pCL 1920-PyccA-well L81A, pCL 1920-PyccA-well L81V and pCL 1920-PyccA-well L81I vectors prepared as shown in Table 27 were each transformed into the CA04-4303 strain by electroporation, and thereby three strains in which each of the mutant wex genes different from each other in amino acid 81 was introduced were obtained. The obtained mutants were named CA04-4303 (wex L81A), CA04-4303 (wex L81V) and CA04-4303 (wex L81I), respectively. 
 To confirm the production of tryptophan in the CA04-4303 (pCL 1920), CA04-4306, CA04-4303 (wex L81A), CA04-4303 (wex L81V) and CA04-4303 (wex L81I) strains, these strains were cultured by the same method as in example 12. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production per strain was measured by HPLC.  
 TABLE 28 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing Strain derived from E.coli (CA 04-4303 (pCL 1920)), strain in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was expressed (CA 04-4306), and mutant in which amino acid at position 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-4303 (Wex L81A), CA04-4303 (Wex L81V) and CA04-4303 (Wex L81I)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 28, all of the three mutants in which the amino acid at position 81 of the Wex amino acid sequence was substituted with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 1.0% p to 1.8% p, as compared with the CA04-4306 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, as in the strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum producing L-tryptophan, the E.coli strain having the Wex L81A mutation also showed the greatest improvement in fermentation yield of L-tryptophan, and these results indicate that substitution of leucine at position 81 of the amino acid sequence of Wex with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output ability of Wex in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia as well as in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium. 
 
 Example 22: amino acid (serine) at position 82 of Wex sequence in microorganism of genus Escherichia is hydrophobic amino group  
 Acid substitution 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia by substituting the amino acid at position 82 (i.e., serine) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the same method as in example 19 using pCL1920-PyccA-wex as a template to generate mutations for four different types of hydrophobic amino acids. 
 In addition, serine at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with each of different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:110, SEQ ID NO: 141), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:111, SEQ ID NO: 142), leucine (L) (SEQ ID NO:112, SEQ ID NO: 143) and isoleucine (I) (SEQ ID NO:113, SEQ ID NO: 144)) using the same method as in example 19. The set of mutagenesis primers and the mutant form used to obtain the mutant pCL1920-PyccA-wex plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 29 below. 
 TABLE 29 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid expressed in Escherichia microorganism in which amino acid 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately 
 
 
 
 The pCL 1920-PyccA-well S82A, pCL 1920-PyccA-well S82V, pCL 1920-PyccA-well S82L and pCL 1920-PyccA-well S82I vectors prepared as shown in Table 29 were each transformed into the CA04-4303 strain by electroporation, and thus four strains in which each of the mutant wex genes different from each other was introduced in amino acid 82 were obtained. The obtained mutants were named CA04-4303 (wex S82A), CA04-4303 (wex S82V), CA04-4303 (wex S82L) and CA04-4303 (wex S82I), respectively.  
 To confirm the production of tryptophan in the CA04-4303 (pCL 1920), CA04-4306, CA04-4303 (wex S82A), CA04-4303 (wex S82V), CA04-4303 (wex S82L) and CA04-4303 (wex S82I) strains, these strains were cultured by the same method as in example 12. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC. 
 TABLE 30 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing Strain derived from E.coli (CA 04-4303 (pCL 1920)), strain in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was expressed (CA 04-4306), and mutant in which amino acid at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-4303 (Wex S82A), CA04-4303 (Wex S82V), CA04-4303 (Wex S82L) and CA04-4303 (Wex S82I)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 30, all of the four mutants in which the amino acid at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence was substituted with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 0.2% p to 1.4% p, as compared with the CA04-4306 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. Unlike the strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum producing L-tryptophan, the E.coli strain having the Wex S82V mutation shows the greatest improvement in fermentation yield of L-tryptophan, and these results indicate that substitution of serine at position 82 of the Wex amino acid sequence with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output of Wex in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia as well as in microorganisms of Corynebacterium.  
 
 Example 23: amino acid (isoleucine) at position 83 of Wex sequence in microorganism of genus Escherichia is subjected to hydrophobic ammonia 
 Substitution of basic acids 
 
 Attempts were made to confirm the improved efficacy of export of L-tryptophan in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia by substituting the amino acid at position 83 (i.e., isoleucine) in the amino acid sequence of the Wex membrane protein with a different hydrophobic amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed by the same method as in example 19 using pCL1920-PyccA-wex as a template to generate mutations that are three hydrophobic amino acids other than isoleucine. 
 In addition, the amino acid at position 83 of the Wex amino acid sequence (i.e., isoleucine) was replaced with each of different hydrophobic amino acids (i.e., alanine (A) (SEQ ID NO:122, SEQ ID NO: 145), valine (V) (SEQ ID NO:123, SEQ ID NO: 146), and leucine (L) (SEQ ID NO:124, SEQ ID NO: 147)) using the same method as in example 19. The set of mutagenesis primers and the mutant form used to obtain the mutant pCL1920-PyccA-wex plasmid were the same as those shown in Table 31 below. 
 TABLE 31 mutagenesis primer set for preparing a mutant plasmid expressed in Escherichia microorganism in which the 83 rd amino acid of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately  
 
 
 
 The pCL1920-PyccA-wex I83A, pCL1920-PyccA-wex I83V and pCL1920-PyccA-wex I83L vectors prepared as shown in Table 31 were each transformed into the CA04-4303 strain by electroporation, and thereby three strains in which each of the mutant wex genes different from each other in amino acid 83 was introduced were obtained. The obtained mutants were named CA04-4303 (wex I83A), CA04-4303 (wex I83V) and CA04-4303 (wex I83L), respectively. 
 To confirm the production of tryptophan in the CA04-4303 (pCL 1920), CA04-4306, CA04-4303 (wex I83A), CA04-4303 (wex I83V) and CA04-4303 (wex I83L) strains, these strains were cultured in the same manner as in example 12. After the completion of the culture, the L-tryptophan production in each strain was measured by HPLC. 
 TABLE 32 confirmation of L-tryptophan production in L-tryptophan-producing Strain derived from E.coli (CA 04-4303 (pCL 1920)), strain in which L-tryptophan output gene (Wex) was expressed (CA 04-4306), and mutant in which amino acid at position 83 of the Wex amino acid sequence was mutated separately (CA 04-4303 (Wex I83A), CA04-4303 (Wex I83V) and CA04-4303 (Wex I83L)) 
 
 
 
 As shown in the results of Table 32, all of the three mutants in which the 83 rd amino acid of the Wex amino acid sequence was replaced with different hydrophobic amino acids showed an improvement in fermentation yield of 0.2% p to 0.7% p, as compared with the CA04-4306 strain into which the wild-type Wex was introduced. In particular, as in the strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum producing L-tryptophan, the E.coli strain having the Wex I83L mutation also shows the greatest improvement in fermentation yield of L-tryptophan, and these results indicate that substitution of isoleucine at position 83 of the Wex amino acid sequence with a different hydrophobic amino acid can significantly increase the activity of the L-tryptophan output ability of Wex in microorganisms of the genus Escherichia as well as in microorganisms of the genus Corynebacterium.  
 From the foregoing, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without modifying the technical concepts or essential features of the present disclosure. In this regard, the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the present disclosure. The scope of the present disclosure should be construed as including the meaning and scope of the following claims and all changes or modifications derived from the equivalent concepts thereof, rather than the above detailed description. 
           /> 
           /> 
           /> 
           /> 
           /> 
           /> 
           /> 
 <110> CJ first sugar manufacturing Co Ltd 
 <120> novel L-tryptophan output protein variant and method for producing L-tryptophan using the same 
 <130>    OPA19299 
 <150>    KR 10-2019-0040397 
 <151>    2019-04-05 
 <160>    147 
 <170>    KoPatentIn 3.0 
 <210>    1 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> wex AA sequence 
 <400>    1 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    2 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> wex NT sequence 
 <400>    2 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    3 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex - 1 
 <400>    3 
 tagaggagac acaacatgaa tagcaagaag gccac                             35 
 <210>    4 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex - 2 
 <400>    4 
 ggctcttcct gtttagtcta caaacagtcc gccac                             35 
 <210>    5 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PgapA(-wex) - 1 
 <400>    5 
 cccttccggt ttagtttgaa gccagtgtga gttgc                             35 
 <210>    6 
 <211>    39 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PgapA(-wex) - 2 
 <400>    6 
 cttcttgcta ttcatgttgt gtctcctcta aagattgta                         39 
 <210>    7 
 <211>    20 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> confirmed_PgapA-wex-1 
 <400>    7 
 cggattatgc caatgatgtg                                              20 
 <210>    8 
 <211>    20 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> confirmed_PgapA-wex-2 
 <400>    8 
 cacgatcacc aacattcagg                                              20 
 <210>    9 
 <211>    314 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Pst AA sequence 
 <400>    9 
 Met Lys Asn Gln Arg Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Val Ala Ile Val 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Leu Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu Ser Leu 
             20                  25                  30 
 Gly Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Val Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Val Met 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Phe Thr Val Gly Phe Pro Arg Ile Arg Glu Phe Pro Arg Arg 
     50                  55                  60 
 Tyr Leu Val Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Ala Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Ser Ser Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Gly Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Ile Leu Ala Ala Ile 
             100                 105                 110 
 Leu Phe Asn Arg Gln Gln Ala Asn Leu Leu Ile Val Pro Gly Phe Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ile Ala Ile Leu Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Glu Gln Gly Leu 
     130                 135                 140 
 Asp Leu Ser Gly Met Thr Ala Asn Ile Arg Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Gly Leu Ala Phe Ala Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Thr Thr Arg Ile Ala Gly Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Met 
             180                 185                 190 
 Leu Thr Ala Leu Ala Leu Trp Ala Lys Tyr Leu Ala Ile Gly Gly Glu 
         195                 200                 205 
 Thr Met Glu Phe Ser Tyr His Ala Leu Ile Tyr Leu Val Leu Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ser Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Gly Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Ala Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Leu 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ser Ala Ala Leu Ala Ala Val Leu Leu Arg Thr Pro Leu Ser Leu Ser 
             260                 265                 270 
 Phe Trp Gln Gly Ala Ala Met Val Cys Ile Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp 
         275                 280                 285 
 Phe Ala Thr Arg Ala Lys Pro Pro Glu Ser Ala Gln Ser Gly Asp Gln 
     290                 295                 300 
 Ala Ser Ala Thr Thr Pro Arg Arg Asn Gly 
 305                 310 
 <210>    10 
 <211>    945 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Pst NT sequence 
 <400>    10 
 atgaaaaacc agcgtaaagc gaccctcatc gggctcgttg caattgtctt gtggagctcg  60 
 atcgtcggcc tgatccgggg cgtcagcgag agcctcggcg cgaccggtgg tgccgtcatg 120 
 atgtacagcg tcgcatcggt aatgctgttg ttcacggtcg gctttccgcg gatacgggag 180 
 ttcccccgac gctatcttgt ctggggcagc ctgctgttcg tctcgtacga gctgtgcctt 240 
 gccctgtcca tcggctacgc caacagcagc cgacaggcca tcgaggtcgg catggtcaat 300 
 tacctgtggc cggccttcac gatcctggcg gcgatcctgt tcaacaggca gcaggccaac 360 
 ctgctcatcg ttcccggctt cctcatcgcg atcctcggga tctgctgggt gctcggcggg 420 
 gaacaggggc tggacctgtc cgggatgacg gcgaacatcc gcgacaatcc cctcagctac 480 
 gggctggcct tcgccggcgc ggtgatctgg gcggcatact gcacggtgac cacgcggatc 540 
 gccggcggca agaacggtgt cacgctgttc ttcatgctga cggcattggc gctatgggcc 600 
 aagtacctgg ccatcggcgg ggaaacgatg gaattcagct accacgcgct gatctacctg 660 
 gtgctggccg cctccgcgat gggcttcggc tatgcggcgt ggaacgtcgg catcctgcac 720 
 ggcaatgtca ccgtcctcgc tggtgcttcg tatttcatcc cggtgctgtc cgccgccctg 780 
 gcggccgtac tgttgcgtac gccgctgtcg ctgtcgttct ggcagggtgc cgccatggtc 840 
 tgcatcgggt cgatcctctg ctggttcgcc acccgtgcga aaccgccaga atcggcgcag 900 
 tcgggtgacc aggccagcgc aaccacgccg cgtcgaaacg gataa                 945 
 <210>    11 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pst-1 
 <400>    11 
 tagaggagac acaacatgaa aaaccagcgt aaagc                             35 
 <210>    12 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence  
 <220> 
 <223>    Pst-2 
 <400>    12 
 ggctcttcct gtttagttta tccgtttcga cgcgg                             35 
 <210>    13 
 <211>    39 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PgapA(-Pst)-2 
 <400>    13 
 acgctggttt ttcatgttgt gtctcctcta aagattgta                         39 
 <210>    14 
 <211>    303 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Afa AA sequence 
 <400>    14 
 Met Lys Gln Ser Asp Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Ile Ala Ile Val 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Leu Trp Ser Thr Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Ser Val Ser Asp Ser Leu 
             20                  25                  30 
 Gly Val Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Leu Ile Tyr Thr Leu Ala Ser Val Phe 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Trp Val Arg Leu Arg Asp Phe Pro Arg Arg 
     50                  55                  60 
 Tyr Leu Ile Trp Gly Ser Val Leu Phe Val Cys Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Ala Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala His Asn Ser Gln Gln Ala Ile Glu Val 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Gly Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Thr Phe Thr Ile Val Ala Ala Ile 
             100                 105                 110 
 Leu Phe Asn Lys Gln Lys Ala Asn Gly Leu Leu Ala Pro Gly Leu Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Leu Ser Met Met Gly Ile Ser Trp Ile Leu Gly Gly Glu Gln Gly Leu 
     130                 135                 140 
 Ser Leu His Asn Ile Trp Leu Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Gly Leu Ala Phe Ser Gly Ala Leu Ile Trp Ala Gly Tyr Ser Thr Met 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Thr Ala Arg Ile Ala Gln Gly Lys Asn Gly Ile Thr Leu Phe Phe Met 
             180                 185                 190 
 Leu Thr Ala Ala Ala Leu Trp Val Lys Tyr Leu Val Gln Gly Ala Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Ala Met Thr Phe Thr Val Pro Ala Leu Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Met Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Gly Asn Val Thr Ile Leu Ala Gly Ala Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ser Ala Ala Leu Ser Thr Val Leu Leu Gln Ala Pro Leu Thr Leu Thr 
             260                 265                 270 
 Phe Trp Gln Gly Ser Ser Met Val Cys Leu Gly Ala Leu Leu Cys Trp 
         275                 280                 285 
 Leu Ala Ile Arg Val Arg Lys Pro Arg Ser Leu Lys Ser Ala Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 <210>    15 
 <211>    912 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Afa NT sequence 
 <400>    15 
 atgaagcaat ctgataaggc aaccctgatc gggctgatcg ccattgtcct ttggagcacg  60 
 attgtcggcc tgatacgcag cgtcagcgac tctctgggcg taaccggcgg cgctgccctg 120 
 atttacaccc tggcctcggt ctttcttctt ttatcagtgg gctgggtacg cttgcgcgac 180 
 ttcccgcgtc gctacctgat ctggggcagt gtgctgtttg tctgctatga actctgcctg 240 
 gccctgtcca tcggctatgc ccacaacagc cagcaggcaa ttgaagtggg gatggtcaac 300 
 tatctgtggc cgacctttac cattgtggcc gccatcttgt tcaataagca aaaagccaat 360 
 gggctgcttg cacccggcct gctcttgtcc atgatgggaa tcagctggat tctgggcggc 420 
 gagcaaggct tgagcctgca caacatctgg ctgaatgtgc aggacaatcc cttgagctac 480 
 ggcctggcct ttagcggcgc gctgatctgg gccggctaca gcaccatgac cgcccgcatc 540 
 gcccagggca aaaatggcat caccctgttt ttcatgctga cggcagcggc cttgtgggtg 600 
 aagtacctgg tccaaggtgc tcctgccatg acgtttacgg ttcccgcctt ggtgtatttg 660 
 ctgctggcgg ccatggcgat gggctttggc tatgccgcct ggaatgtcgg tattttgcat 720 
 ggcaatgtca ccatcctggc cggcgcttcc tactttattc cggtattttc agccgccctg 780 
 tccaccgttt tgctgcaagc tccgttgacg ctgaccttct ggcaaggctc gtccatggtg 840 
 tgtttgggtg ccctgctatg ctggctggcc atccgggttc gcaaaccccg gtcactaaaa 900 
 agcgctgcct ga                                                     912 
 <210>    16 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Afa-1 
 <400>    16 
 tagaggagac acaacatgaa gcaatctgat aaggc                             35 
 <210>    17 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Afa-2 
 <400>    17 
 gctcttcctg tttagttcag gcagcgcttt ttagt                             35 
 <210>    18 
 <211>    39 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PgapA(-Afa)-2 
 <400>    18 
 atcagattgc ttcatgttgt gtctcctcta aagattgta                         39 
 <210>    19 
 <211>    314 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Cne AA sequence 
 <400>    19 
 Met Gln Ser Lys Ser Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Ile Ala Ile Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Leu Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu Asn Leu 
             20                  25                  30 
 Gly Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Ile Tyr Thr Val Ala Ser Ala Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Leu Thr Val Gly Phe Val Arg Met Gln Asp Phe Pro Arg Arg 
     50                  55                  60 
 Tyr Leu Val Trp Gly Ser Ile Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Ser Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Ser Ser Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Gly Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ser Phe Thr Met Leu Cys Ala Ile 
             100                 105                 110 
 Ala Phe Asn Lys Gln Lys Ala Asn Leu Leu Ile Ile Pro Gly Phe Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ile Ala Ile Leu Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu 
     130                 135                 140 
 Asp Phe Ala Gly Met Ala Glu Asn Ile Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Gly Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Leu Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Thr Asn Arg Ile Ala Glu Gly Arg Asn Gly Ile Thr Leu Phe Phe Met 
             180                 185                 190 
 Leu Thr Ala Leu Ala Leu Trp Ile Lys Tyr Phe Ala Thr Glu Ser Gly 
         195                 200                 205 
 Ser Met Glu Phe Ser Tyr Gln Ala Val Ile Tyr Leu Ala Leu Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ser Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Gly Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Ala Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Leu 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ser Ala Ala Leu Ala Ala Met Leu Leu Arg Thr Pro Leu Ser Ile Ala 
             260                 265                 270 
 Phe Trp Lys Gly Ala Ser Met Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp 
         275                 280                 285 
 Leu Ala Thr Arg Gly Gln Arg Ser Lys Ala Pro Pro Leu Pro Glu Leu 
     290                 295                 300 
 Pro Gln Ser Arg Glu Arg Val Gln Glu Pro 
 305                 310 
 <210>    20 
 <211>    945 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Cne NT sequence 
 <400>    20 
 atgcaaagca agagcaaagc aactctcatc gggctcatcg cgattctgtt atggagctcg  60 
 attgtcggcc tgattcgcgg tgtcagcgaa aaccttgggg caaccggtgg ggcggcaatg 120 
 atctataccg tcgcctcggc cctgctcttg ctgacagtcg gtttcgtcag aatgcaggat 180 
 tttccccggc gctatctggt ttggggaagc attctgttcg tttcgtacga gctgtgtctt 240 
 tccttgtcca ttggctacgc caacagcagc aggcaagcca ttgaggtggg gatggtcaac 300 
 tacttgtggc cgagcttcac catgctgtgt gccatcgcat tcaacaagca gaaggccaac 360 
 ttgctgatca ttcccggctt cctgatcgcc attctcggga tctgctgggt gcttggcggg 420 
 gatcagggcc tggacttcgc cgggatggcg gagaacatcc aggacaatcc gctcagctat 480 
 gggctggcct tccttggtgc cctgatctgg gcggcgtatt gcactgtgac caaccggatt 540 
 gccgaaggca ggaatggcat cacgctgttc ttcatgctga cagcgctggc gttgtggatc 600 
 aagtatttcg ccacagagag cgggtcgatg gaatttagct atcaggcagt gatttatctt 660 
 gcgttggccg cctctgcgat gggattcggc tatgcggcct ggaatgttgg catcctgcat 720 
 ggcaatgtca ccgtccttgc cggcgcttcc tacttcattc cggtactttc cgccgccctg 780 
 gcggccatgc tcttgcgtac acccctgtcg atcgccttct ggaagggcgc atccatggta 840 
 tgtgcggggt cgatcctctg ttggctggca acacgtgggc aacgttccaa ggcacctccg 900 
 ttgccggaat taccgcagtc gcgcgaacgt gtccaggaac cgtga                 945 
 <210>    21 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Cne-1 
 <400>    21 
 tagaggagac acaacatgca aagcaagagc aaagc                             35 
 <210>    22 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Cne-2 
 <400>    22 
 ggctcttcct gtttagttca cggttcctgg acacg                             35 
 <210>    23 
 <211>    39 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PgapA(-Cne)-2 
 <400>    23 
 gctcttgctt tgcatgttgt gtctcctcta aagattgta                         39 
 <210>    24 
 <211>    293 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Eco AA sequence 
 <400>    24 
 Met Thr Arg Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Ile Ala Ile Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Thr Met Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu Gly Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Pro Val Gly Gly Ala Ala Ala Ile Tyr Ser Leu Ser Gly Leu Leu Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Ile Phe Thr Val Gly Phe Pro Arg Ile Arg Gln Ile Pro Lys Gly Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Ala Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Ile Cys Leu Ala 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Leu Gly Tyr Ala Ala Thr His His Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Gly 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ser Leu Thr Ile Leu Phe Ala Ile Leu 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Gly Gln Lys Thr Asn Trp Leu Ile Val Pro Gly Leu Leu Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ala Leu Val Gly Val Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Asn Gly Leu His 
     130                 135                 140 
 Tyr Asp Glu Ile Ile Asn Asn Ile Thr Thr Ser Pro Leu Ser Tyr Phe 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Ile Gly Ala Phe Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Asn Lys Tyr Ala Arg Gly Phe Asn Gly Ile Thr Val Phe Val Leu Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Thr Gly Ala Ser Leu Trp Val Tyr Tyr Phe Leu Thr Pro Gln Pro Glu 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ile Phe Ser Thr Pro Val Met Ile Lys Leu Ile Ser Ala Ala Phe 
     210                 215                 220 
 Thr Leu Gly Phe Ala Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Ile Met Ala Val Gly Ser Tyr Phe Thr Pro Val Leu Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ser Ala Leu Ala Ala Val Leu Leu Ser Ala Pro Leu Ser Phe Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Gln Gly Ala Leu Met Val Cys Gly Gly Ser Leu Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Arg Gly 
     290 
 <210>    25 
 <211>    882 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> Eco NT sequence 
 <400>    25 
 atgacacgac aaaaagcaac gctcataggg ctgatagcga tcgtcctgtg gagcacgatg  60 
 gtaggattga ttcgcggtgt cagtgagggg ctcggcccgg tcggcggcgc agctgctatc 120 
 tattcattaa gcgggctgct gttaatcttc acggttggat ttccgcgtat tcggcaaatc 180 
 ccgaaaggct atttactcgc cgggagtctg ttattcgtca gctatgaaat ctgtctggcg 240 
 ctttccttag ggtatgcggc gacccatcat caggcgattg aagtgggtat ggtgaactat 300 
 ctgtggccca gcctgacaat tctctttgcc attctgttta atggtcagaa aaccaactgg 360 
 ttgattgtac ctggattatt attagccctc gtcggcgtct gttgggtgtt aggcggtgac 420 
 aatgggttac attatgatga aatcatcaat aatatcacca ccagcccatt gagttatttc 480 
 ctggcgttca ttggtgcgtt tatctgggca gcctattgca cagtaacgaa taaatacgca 540 
 cgcggattta atggaattac cgtttttgtc ctgctaacgg gagcaagtct gtgggtttac 600 
 tattttctta cgccacaacc agaaatgata tttagcacgc ccgtcatgat taaactcatc 660 
 tctgcggcat ttaccttagg atttgcttat gctgcatgga atgtcggtat attgcatggc 720 
 aatgtcacca ttatggcggt aggttcgtat tttacgcctg tactttcctc agcgcttgca 780 
 gccgtgctgc tcagcgcccc gctgtcgttc tcgttctggc aaggcgcgct gatggtctgc 840 
 ggcggttccc tgctctgctg gctggcgaca cgtcgtggtt aa                    882 
 <210>    26 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Eco-1 
 <400>    26 
 tagaggagac acaacatgac acgacaaaaa gcaac                             35 
 <210>    27 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Eco-2 
 <400>    27 
 gctcttcctg tttagtttaa ccacgacgtg tcgcc                             35 
 <210>    28 
 <211>    37 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PgapA(-Eco)-2 
 <400>    28 
 tttttgtcgt gtcatgttgt gtctcctcta aagattg                           37 
 <210>    29 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Hrh-3 
 <400>    29 
 atagagagtg actcaatgaa tagcaagaag gccac                             35 
 <210>    30 
 <211>    33 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Hrh-4 
 <400>    30 
 tcgagctcgg tacccctaca aacagtccgc cac                               33 
 <210>    31 
 <211>    34 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PyccA - 1 
 <400>    31 
 ctctagagga tccccttcca gatcaaatgc gtaa                              34 
 <210>    32 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PyccA(-Hrh)-2 
 <400>    32 
 cttcttgcta ttcattgagt cactctctat gacag                             35 
 <210>    33 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pst-3 
 <400>    33 
 atagagagtg actcaatgaa aaaccagcgt aaagc                             35 
 <210>    34 
 <211>    33 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pst-4 
 <400>    34 
 tcgagctcgg tacccttatc cgtttcgacg cgg                               33 
 <210>    35 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PyccA(-Pst)-2 
 <400>    35 
 acgctggttt ttcattgagt cactctctat gacag                             35 
 <210>    36 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Afa-3 
 <400>    36 
 atagagagtg actcaatgaa gcaatctgat aaggc                             35 
 <210>    37 
 <211>    34 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Afa-4 
 <400>    37 
 tcgagctcgg taccctcagg cagcgctttt tagt                              34 
 <210>    38 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PyccA(-Afa)-2 
 <400>    38 
 atcagattgc ttcattgagt cactctctat gacag                             35 
 <210>    39 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Cne-3 
 <400>    39 
 atagagagtg actcaatgca aagcaagagc aaagc                             35 
 <210>    40 
 <211>    33 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Cne-4 
 <400>    40 
 tcgagctcgg taccctcacg gttcctggac acg                               33 
 <210>    41 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PyccA(-Cne)-2 
 <400>    41 
 gctcttgctt tgcattgagt cactctctat gacag                             35 
 <210>    42 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Eco-3 
 <400>    42 
 atagagagtg actcaatgac acgacaaaaa gcaac                             35 
 <210>    43 
 <211>    34 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Eco-4 
 <400>    43 
 tcgagctcgg tacccttaac cacgacgtgt cgcc                              34 
 <210>    44 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    PyccA(-Eco)-2 
 <400>    44 
 tttttgtcgt gtcattgagt cactctctat gacag                             35 
 <210>    45 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_L-1 
 <400>    45 
 tcgagctcgg tacccaaaca actgcgacgt gtgtc                             35 
 <210>    46 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_L-2 
 <400>    46 
 catgaagcgc cggtacctta atcatttttg ggttc                             35 
 <210>    47 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_R-1 
 <400>    47 
 gccctgttgg aacgcgctga tatcaccacc aagaa                             35 
 <210>    48 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pspl7-trpE(S38R)_R-2 
 <400>    48 
 ctctagagga tccccagatg tcaccgttgt aaatg                             35 
 <210>    49 
 <211>    294 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> spl7 promoter sequence 
 <400>    49 
 ggcgcttcat gtcaacaatc tttaacgttt tcaagttcac aagtcgtgtt caaatggtga  60 
 caagattgga cactgtgctg aattggcacc aagccctcat aaatgataga tctaaatcga 120 
 atatcaatat atggtctgtt tattggaacg cgtcccagtg gctgagacgc atccgctaaa 180 
 gccccaggaa ccctgtgcag aaagaacaaa taatcgtgaa ttttggcagc aacagcaatt 240 
 cctgctacaa ttgaaaacgt gcaaaagcat agattattgg aggagatcaa aaca       294 
 <210>    50 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pspl7 - 1 
 <400>    50 
 cccaaaaatg attaaggtac cggcgcttca tgtca                             35 
 <210>    51 
 <211>    37 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence  
 <220> 
 <223>    Pspl7 - 2 
 <400>    51 
 gggattcgtg ctcatgatat ctgttttgat ctcctcc                           37 
 <210>    52 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    trpE (S38R) - 1 
 <400>    52 
 atcaaaacag atatcatgag cacgaatccc catgt                             35 
 <210>    53 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    trpE (S38R) - 2 
 <400>    53 
 gtggtgatat cagcgcgttc caacagggct gcatc                             35 
 <210>    54 
 <211>    19 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> confirm_pspl7-trpE (S38R) -1 
 <400>    54 
 gaagaagagg ctgcagatg                                               19 
 <210>    55 
 <211>    18 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> confirm_pspl7-trpE (S38R) -2 
 <400>    55 
 gatcagcgcc atcatgtt                                                18 
 <210>    56 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pn-tkt_L - 1 
 <400>    56 
 tcgagctcgg tacccaaact ttgagtgggt gcgtg                             35 
 <210>    57 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pn-tkt_L - 2 
 <400>    57 
 tcgagctacg agggcggttc ccagcccttc attag                             35 
 <210>    58 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pn-tkt_R - 1 
 <400>    58 
 attaacggtt aattgattct ggacgtcatg actac                             35 
 <210>    59 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pn-tkt_R - 2 
 <400>    59 
 ctctagagga tccccgcctc gatgatgcag tcgtc                             35 
 <210>    60 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pn-tkt - 1 
 <400>    60 
 gaagggctgg gaaccgccct cgtagctcga gagtt                             35 
 <210>    61 
 <211>    37 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    Pn-tkt - 2 
 <400>    61 
 catgacgtcc agaatcaatt aaccgttaat ggagtcc                           37 
 <210>    62 
 <211>    20 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> acknowledgement_Pn-tkt-1 
 <400>    62 
 acccagaacc ccaaattttc                                              20 
 <210>    63 
 <211>    19 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> acknowledgement_Pn-tkt-2 
 <400>    63 
 ttgagttcga caactttgg                                               19 
 <210>    64 
 <211>    70 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    64 
 tgcaatgcat aacaacgcag tcgcactatt tttcactgga gagaagccct gtgtaggctg  60 
 gagctgcttc                                                         70 
 <210>    65 
 <211>    70 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    65 
 tgcaatgcat aacaacgcag tcgcactatt tttcactgga gagaagccct gtccatatga  60 
 atatcctcct                                                         70 
 <210>    66 
 <211>    20 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    66 
 gggcaggatc tcctgtcatc                                              20 
 <210>    67 
 <211>    20 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    67 
 aaatgtcgga taaggcaccg                                              20 
 <210>    68 
 <211>    70 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    68 
 tgtaatattc acagggatca ctgtaattaa aataaatgaa ggattatgta gtgtaggctg  60 
 gagctgcttc                                                         70 
 <210>    69 
 <211>    70 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    69 
 tgtagggtaa gagagtggct aacatcctta tagccactct gtagtattaa gtccatatga  60 
 atatcctcct                                                         70 
 <210>    70 
 <211>    20 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    70 
 acatccttat agccactctg                                              20 
 <210>    71 
 <211>    70 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    71 
 tacaaccggg ggaggcattt tgcttccccc gctaacaatg gcgacatatt gtgtaggctg  60 
 gagctgcttc                                                         70 
 <210>    72 
 <211>    70 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    72 
 gcattcggtg cacgatgcct gatgcgccac gtcttatcag gcctacaaaa gtccatatga  60 
 atatcctcct                                                         70 
 <210>    73 
 <211>    20 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer 
 <400>    73 
 aggacggata aggcgttcac                                              20 
 <210>    74 
 <211>    26 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    trpE - 1 
 <400>    74 
 gaattcatgc aaacacaaaa accgac                                       26 
 <210>    75 
 <211>    25 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    trpE - 2 
 <400>    75 
 gaattctcag aaagtctcct gtgca                                        25 
 <210>    76 
 <211>    37 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    trpE(P21S) - 1 
 <400>    76 
 cgcttatcgc gacaattcca ccgcgctttt tcaccag                           37 
 <210>    77 
 <211>    37 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    trpE(P21S) - 2 
 <400>    77 
 ctggtgaaaa agcgcggtgg aattgtcgcg ataagcg                           37 
 <210>    78 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex-1) 
 <400>    78 
 actctagagg atccccttcc agatcaaatg cgtaa                             35 
 <210>    79 
 <211>    35 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex-2) 
 <400>    79 
 attcgagctc ggtaccccta caaacagtcc gccac                             35 
 <210>    80 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(L79A) 
 <400>    80 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcgcatcg 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    81 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(L79V) 
 <400>    81 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcgtgtcg 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    82 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(L79I) 
 <400>    82 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcatctcg 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    83 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence  
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L79A-1) 
 <400>    83 
 gtgtcctacg aactctgcgc atcgctctcc atcggttatg                        40 
 <210>    84 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L79A-2) 
 <400>    84 
 cataaccgat ggagagcgat gcgcagagtt cgtaggacac                        40 
 <210>    85 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L79V-1) 
 <400>    85 
 gtgtcctacg aactctgcgt gtcgctctcc atcggttatg                        40 
 <210>    86 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L79V-2) 
 <400>    86 
 cataaccgat ggagagcgac acgcagagtt cgtaggacac                        40 
 <210>    87 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L79I-1) 
 <400>    87 
 gtgtcctacg aactctgcat ctcgctctcc atcggttatg                        40 
 <210>    88 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L79I-2) 
 <400>    88 
 cataaccgat ggagagcgag atgcagagtt cgtaggacac                        40 
 <210>    89 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S80A) 
 <400>    89 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctggca 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    90 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S80V) 
 <400>    90 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctggtg 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    91 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S80L) 
 <400>    91 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgctg 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    92 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S80I) 
 <400>    92 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgatc 240 
 ctctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    93 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80A-1) 
 <400>    93 
 gtcctacgaa ctctgcctgg cactctccat cggttatgcc                        40 
 <210>    94 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80A-2) 
 <400>    94 
 ggcataaccg atggagagtg ccaggcagag ttcgtaggac                        40 
 <210>    95 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80V-1) 
 <400>    95 
 gtcctacgaa ctctgcctgg tgctctccat cggttatgcc                        40 
 <210>    96 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80V-2) 
 <400>    96 
 ggcataaccg atggagagca ccaggcagag ttcgtaggac                        40 
 <210>    97 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80L-1) 
 <400>    97 
 gtcctacgaa ctctgcctgc tgctctccat cggttatgcc                        40 
 <210>    98 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80L-2) 
 <400>    98 
 ggcataaccg atggagagca gcaggcagag ttcgtaggac                        40 
 <210>    99 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80I-1) 
 <400>    99 
 gtcctacgaa ctctgcctga tcctctccat cggttatgcc                        40 
 <210>    100 
 <211>    40 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S80I-2) 
 <400>    100 
 ggcataaccg atggagagga tcaggcagag ttcgtaggac                        40 
 <210>    101 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(L81A) 
 <400>    101 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 gcatccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    102 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(L81V) 
 <400>    102 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 gtgtccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    103 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(L81I) 
 <400>    103 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 atctccatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    104 
 <211>    43 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L81A-1) 
 <400>    104 
 cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg gcatccatcg gttatgccaa tac                    43 
 <210>    105 
 <211>    43 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L81A-2) 
 <400>    105 
 gtattggcat aaccgatgga tgccgacagg cagagttcgt agg                    43 
 <210>    106 
 <211>    43 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L81V-1) 
 <400>    106 
 cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg gtgtccatcg gttatgccaa tac                    43 
 <210>    107 
 <211>    43 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L81V-2)  
 <400>    107 
 gtattggcat aaccgatgga caccgacagg cagagttcgt agg                    43 
 <210>    108 
 <211>    43 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L81I-1) 
 <400>    108 
 cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg atctccatcg gttatgccaa tac                    43 
 <210>    109 
 <211>    43 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex L81I-2) 
 <400>    109 
 gtattggcat aaccgatgga gatcgacagg cagagttcgt agg                    43 
 <210>    110 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S82A) 
 <400>    110 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctcgcaatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    111 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S82V) 
 <400>    111 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctcgtgatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    112 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S82L) 
 <400>    112 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctcctgatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    113 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(S82I) 
 <400>    113 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctcatcatcg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    114 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82A-1) 
 <400>    114 
 cgaactctgc ctgtcgctcg caatcggtta tgccaataca g                      41 
 <210>    115 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82A-2) 
 <400>    115 
 ctgtattggc ataaccgatt gcgagcgaca ggcagagttc g                      41 
 <210>    116 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82V-1) 
 <400>    116 
 cgaactctgc ctgtcgctcg tgatcggtta tgccaataca g                      41 
 <210>    117 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82V-2) 
 <400>    117 
 ctgtattggc ataaccgatc acgagcgaca ggcagagttc g                      41 
 <210>    118 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82L-1) 
 <400>    118 
 cgaactctgc ctgtcgctcc tgatcggtta tgccaataca g                      41 
 <210>    119 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82L-2) 
 <400>    119 
 ctgtattggc ataaccgatc aggagcgaca ggcagagttc g                      41 
 <210>    120 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82I-1) 
 <400>    120 
 cgaactctgc ctgtcgctca tcatcggtta tgccaataca g                      41 
 <210>    121 
 <211>    41 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex S82I-2) 
 <400>    121 
 ctgtattggc ataaccgatg atgagcgaca ggcagagttc g                      41 
 <210>    122 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(I83A) 
 <400>    122 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctctccgcag gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    123 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(I83V) 
 <400>    123 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctctccgtgg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    124 
 <211>    924 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex(I83L) 
 <400>    124 
 atgaatagca agaaggccac gctgatcgga cttactgcag tggtcctctg gagttccatt  60 
 gtcggattga ttcgcggcgt cagcgaacat ctcggcgcta ccgggggcgc ggcgatgatg 120 
 tatagcgttg cctcgctgtt tctgctgttg tcggtcggtt tcccgaaact gggttccttt 180 
 ccgaaaaaat acctcttgtg gggcagcctg ctgtttgtgt cctacgaact ctgcctgtcg 240 
 ctctccctgg gttatgccaa tacaggcagg caagcaatcg aagtcagcat ggtcaactat 300 
 ctgtggccgg cattcacgct catcgccgcc attgcattca accggcagag agcgaactgg 360 
 atggtggtgc ccggattcat cctctcgatt atcggtatct gctgggtgct gggcggtgac 420 
 caggggctgg acctggcggg catgcttggc aacgtgcagg acaatccgct cagttatggg 480 
 ctggcttttt tgggcgccgt gatctgggcc gcctattgca ctgtgacggc ccgcctcgcg 540 
 aaggggaaga acggagtgac gctgttcttc attcttgtgg cattgacgct ctgggtgaag 600 
 tttttcttcg gcgatcaccg cccgatgtct ttcagcctgc cggcaattgt ctacctgctc 660 
 ctggcggcgg ccgcgatggg cttcggctat gcggcatgga atgtcgggat cttgcacggt 720 
 aacgtgaccg tgctggcggg cgtgtcgtac tttatcccgg ttttttcggc ggcgttgtcc 780 
 gcgatggtgt tgcatgcgcc gttgccgcga tcgttttggg tgggggcgtc gctggtatgc 840 
 gccggttcga tactgtgctg gctggcaacc agggccaggc gcgcttcggc cgcgcaagaa 900 
 gatgcggtgg cggactgttt gtag                                        924 
 <210>    125 
 <211>    45 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex I83A-1) 
 <400>    125 
 gaactctgcc tgtcgctctc cgcaggttat gccaatacag gcagg                  45 
 <210>    126 
 <211>    45 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex I83A-2) 
 <400>    126 
 cctgcctgta ttggcataac ctgcggagag cgacaggcag agttc                  45 
 <210>    127 
 <211>    45 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex I83V-1) 
 <400>    127 
 gaactctgcc tgtcgctctc cgtgggttat gccaatacag gcagg                  45 
 <210>    128 
 <211>    45 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex I83V-2) 
 <400>    128 
 cctgcctgta ttggcataac ccacggagag cgacaggcag agttc                  45 
 <210>    129 
 <211>    45 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex I83L-1) 
 <400>    129 
 gaactctgcc tgtcgctctc cctgggttat gccaatacag gcagg                  45 
 <210>    130 
 <211>    45 
 <212>    DNA 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223> primer (wex I83L-2) 
 <400>    130 
 cctgcctgta ttggcataac ccagggagag cgacaggcag agttc                  45 
 <210>    131 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex L79A 
 <400>    131 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Ala Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    132 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex L79V 
 <400>    132 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Val Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    133 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex L79I 
 <400>    133 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Ile Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    134 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence  
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S80A 
 <400>    134 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ala 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    135 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S80V 
 <400>    135 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Val 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    136 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S80L 
 <400>    136 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    137 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S80I 
 <400>    137 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ile 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    138 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex L81A 
 <400>    138 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Ala Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    139 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex L81V 
 <400>    139 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Val Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    140 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex L81I 
 <400>    140 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Ile Ser Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    141 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S82A 
 <400>    141 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ala Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    142 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S82V 
 <400>    142 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Val Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    143 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S82L 
 <400>    143 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Leu Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    144 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex S82I 
 <400>    144 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ile Ile Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    145 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex I83A 
 <400>    145 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Ala Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    146 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex I83V 
 <400>    146 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Val Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 <210>    147 
 <211>    307 
 <212>    PRT 
 <213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
 <223>    wex I83L 
 <400>    147 
 Met Asn Ser Lys Lys Ala Thr Leu Ile Gly Leu Thr Ala Val Val Leu 
 1               5                   10                  15 
 Trp Ser Ser Ile Val Gly Leu Ile Arg Gly Val Ser Glu His Leu Gly 
             20                  25                  30 
 Ala Thr Gly Gly Ala Ala Met Met Tyr Ser Val Ala Ser Leu Phe Leu 
         35                  40                  45 
 Leu Leu Ser Val Gly Phe Pro Lys Leu Gly Ser Phe Pro Lys Lys Tyr 
     50                  55                  60 
 Leu Leu Trp Gly Ser Leu Leu Phe Val Ser Tyr Glu Leu Cys Leu Ser 
 65                  70                  75                  80 
 Leu Ser Leu Gly Tyr Ala Asn Thr Gly Arg Gln Ala Ile Glu Val Ser 
                 85                  90                  95 
 Met Val Asn Tyr Leu Trp Pro Ala Phe Thr Leu Ile Ala Ala Ile Ala 
             100                 105                 110 
 Phe Asn Arg Gln Arg Ala Asn Trp Met Val Val Pro Gly Phe Ile Leu 
         115                 120                 125 
 Ser Ile Ile Gly Ile Cys Trp Val Leu Gly Gly Asp Gln Gly Leu Asp 
     130                 135                 140 
 Leu Ala Gly Met Leu Gly Asn Val Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Ser Tyr Gly 
 145                 150                 155                 160 
 Leu Ala Phe Leu Gly Ala Val Ile Trp Ala Ala Tyr Cys Thr Val Thr 
                 165                 170                 175 
 Ala Arg Leu Ala Lys Gly Lys Asn Gly Val Thr Leu Phe Phe Ile Leu 
             180                 185                 190 
 Val Ala Leu Thr Leu Trp Val Lys Phe Phe Phe Gly Asp His Arg Pro 
         195                 200                 205 
 Met Ser Phe Ser Leu Pro Ala Ile Val Tyr Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ala 
     210                 215                 220 
 Ala Met Gly Phe Gly Tyr Ala Ala Trp Asn Val Gly Ile Leu His Gly 
 225                 230                 235                 240 
 Asn Val Thr Val Leu Ala Gly Val Ser Tyr Phe Ile Pro Val Phe Ser 
                 245                 250                 255 
 Ala Ala Leu Ser Ala Met Val Leu His Ala Pro Leu Pro Arg Ser Phe 
             260                 265                 270 
 Trp Val Gly Ala Ser Leu Val Cys Ala Gly Ser Ile Leu Cys Trp Leu 
         275                 280                 285 
 Ala Thr Arg Ala Arg Arg Ala Ser Ala Ala Gln Glu Asp Ala Val Ala 
     290                 295                 300 
 Asp Cys Leu 
 305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
