
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Including bacillus subtilis strain, the strain of i (bacillus) pumilus as active constituent
With lichem bacillus strain for preventing or treating Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis
(AHPND) or the fodder compound of guttate morphea syndrome (WSS) 
 
 Technical field 
 This disclosure relates to the feeding for preventing or treating Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis (AHPND) or guttate morphea syndrome (WSS)
Feed composition, including the bacillus subtilis strain, strain of i (bacillus) pumilus and Bacillus licheniformis as active constituent
Strain；Its culture medium；Its concentrate；Or its dry matter. 
 
 
 Background technique 
 Deaths syndrome (EMS), Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis (AHPND) and acute Hepatopancreatic necrosis syndrome
It (AHPNS) is disease fast-developing in shrimp aquaculture, and vibrio parahaemolytious is the pathogen of these diseases；That is, vibrio parahaemolytious
The insect toxins of generation lead to 100% lethality (Tran et al. .2013.Dis aquat Org in 6 hours or in one week
105:45-55).Insect toxins generate (i.e. luminous bacillus elder brother by the expression for the specific gene being present in the certain plasmid of bacterium
Worm (photorhabdus insect) associated toxin；Pir toxin), and be easy to move around, i.e., they have motility.It is right
This, these diseases are than such as white spot syndrome virus (WSSV), Taura syndrome virus (TSV), infectiousness myonecrosis virus
(IMNV) etc. viral shrimp transmission obtains faster, has attracted attention recently.AHPND in 2009 in China, and
Propagated rapidly in 1 year in countries in Asia (such as Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam), and further occurrence in Mexico to climing
Prolong to other Central American countries, causes damages to most of shrimp market.South Korea is also because 2015 to 2016 years AHPND are by pole
Big loss, and currently studied, to prevent or control disease. 
 Recently, the production strategy of the demand due to consumer to safety product and duration cultivation, for treating existing disease
The therapeutic agent of opportunistic pathogen is limited by cultivation relevant laws and regulations.Therefore, in shrimp aquaculture, seed commodity (seed is not only considered
Goods quality and cultural method), it is also contemplated that an important factor for control disease. 
 Meanwhile probiotics is defined as microorganism formulation or facilitates the component of microbial balance in enteron aisle, and has
The etymology meaning opposite with antibiotic, antibiotic refer to the substance of antibacterial.Typically, the example of probiotics includes that lactic acid bacteria is all
Such as lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium.In addition, probiotics does not have the virulent gene for resisting human and animal, causative agent is not also generated
Matter, therefore it is classified as GRAS (being typically considered safe).Therefore, using (its safety of the feed addictive of probiotics
Be proved to) exploitation energetically complete. 
 As example, Korean Patent Publication No. 10-2011-035554 disclose novel bacillus CMB L1 and
The hybrid bacterial strain of the CMB201 of lactobacillus is lived using its anticancer and the food compositions of strengthen immunity and with antibacterial
The microorganism formulation of property.In addition, Korean patent No. 10-0977407 discloses a kind of immunopotentiator and feed for animal
Additive, the lysate containing Bayer Zygosaccharomyces (Zygosaccharomyces bailii), improve animal it is thermophilic in
Property granulocyte, main phagocyte various activity, and enhance resist pathogen carry out invasion inoculation nonspecific defense.
However, insufficient using the practical immunocompetence of the feed addictive of probiotics, it is therefore desirable to have superior immune living to using still
The feed addictive of the probiotics of property is studied. 
 
 
 Summary of the invention 
 Technical problem 
 The present inventor has hardy developed the shrimp feed of supplement profitable probliotics (bacillus) very much, to prevent shrimp
AHPND or guttate morphea syndrome (WSS).As a result, they, which have proven to work as to shrimp feeding, is supplemented with bacillus subtilis, short and small gemma bar
When the fodder compound of bacterium and bacillus licheniformis, AHPND infection is resisted (by dividing in 2013 from the involved area of Vietnam
From bacterial strain caused by；Tran et al. is 2013) or the survival rate of the shrimp of WSSV infection is improved, and the not only growth speed of shrimp
Degree and non-specific immunity are improved, and water quality is improved, and can obtain the production of high protein shrimp, thus complete
At the disclosure. 
 Technical solution 
 The target of the disclosure is to provide a kind of for preventing or treating the feed combinations of Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis (AHPND)
Object, including the bacillus subtilis strain, strain of i (bacillus) pumilus and lichem bacillus strain as active constituent；It is trained
Support base；Its concentrate；Or its dry matter. 
 Another target of the disclosure is to provide a kind of method of prevention or treatment Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis, including to object
Give fodder compound. 
 The another target of the disclosure is to provide the fodder compound for preventing or treating guttate morphea syndrome (WSS), including
Bacillus subtilis strain, strain of i (bacillus) pumilus and lichem bacillus strain as active constituent；Its culture medium；Its
Concentrate；Or its dry matter. 
 Yet another target of the disclosure is to provide the method for preventing or treating guttate morphea syndrome, including gives to object
Fodder compound. 
 Advantageous effects 
 The composition of the disclosure has the antibacterial for resisting vibrio parahaemolytious (it causes the AHPND that prawn culturing throws into question)
Activity and the antiviral activity of resistance white spot syndrome virus (it causes WSS) simultaneously show the immunity for improving shrimp hepatopancrease
Effect, the composition includes as bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain of active constituent, bacillus pumilus
(KCCM11144P) bacterial strain and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P) bacterial strain, therefore the composition of the disclosure can be used as shrimp feed
Composition or feed addictive. 
 
 
 Detailed description of the invention 
 Fig. 1 is the figure for showing the survival rate of the shrimp infected by vibrio parahaemolytious. 
 Fig. 2 is the figure of the analysis of AHPND content in shrimp hepatopancrease. 
 Fig. 3 is the image for showing the pathological characteristics of shrimp hepatopancrease. 
 Fig. 4 is the figure for showing the growth rate of shrimp.Fig. 4 (a) to 4 (d) respectively illustrates final weight, rate of body weight gain, daily life
Long rate and feed conversion rate. 
 Fig. 5 is the figure for analyzing the non-specific immunity of shrimp.Fig. 5 (a) to 5 (e), which is respectively illustrated, resists macrophage, phenol
The activity of oxidizing ferment, antiprotease, lysozyme and superoxide dismutase. 
 Fig. 6 is the figure that the result of culture water quality of tank system is analyzed in display with zero water coke slurry (zero water exchange). 
 Preferred forms 
 Hereinafter, it will be described in the disclosure.Meanwhile each explanation disclosed herein and illustrative embodiments all may be used
Applied to other explanations and illustrative embodiments.That is, all combinations of various factors disclosed herein belong to the disclosure
Range.In addition, the specific disclosure limitation that the scope of the present disclosure should not be provided hereinafter. 
 In order to achieve the above objectives, it is provided in terms of the disclosure for preventing or treating Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis
(AHPND) fodder compound, including the bacillus subtilis strain, strain of i (bacillus) pumilus and lichens as active constituent
Bacillus strain；Its culture medium；Its concentrate；Or its dry matter. 
 As used herein, term " bacillus subtilis " is a kind of nontoxic and produces sporogenic aerobic bacteria.Withered grass gemma
Bacillus distributes widely in nature, such as in hay, soil, sewage, air.This bacterium generates solidification milk because of it
Enzyme, starch saccharification, reduce fat and oil and be widely used in industry.The optimum condition of bacterial growth is that pH is 7 to 8.5, and temperature is
37 DEG C to 40 DEG C.Due to the feature of Bacillus strain, which does not have the virulent gene to humans and animals, is non-cause a disease
Property, do not generate morbid substance and show quick growth rate in vivo.Bacillus subtilis is deposited glucose etc.
There is anaerobism habitat lower, and endospore allows bacillus raw in the extreme environment of such as high temperature or low temperature
It deposits. 
 As used herein, term " bacillus pumilus " is a kind of sporogenic aerobic gram-positive bacterium of production.It is short and small
Bacillus in soil or is present in the root of certain plants with bacterium colony formal distribution.Bacillus pumilus spore is usually to packet
It includes and is exposed to environment-stress existing for the oxidant of ultraviolet light, drying and such as hydrogen peroxide with resistance. 
 As used herein, term " bacillus licheniformis " is a kind of bacterium being common in soil, and is a kind of mesophilic
Gram-positive bacterium.The optimum growth temp of this bacterium is about 50 DEG C, even if it can also be deposited at a much higher temperature
It is living.Bacillus licheniformis can exist in the form of resting spore, to resist adverse circumstances. 
 In the disclosure, bacillus subtilis can be with the bacterial strain of deposit number KCCM11143P preservation. 
 In the disclosure, bacillus pumilus can be with the bacterial strain of deposit number KCCM11144P preservation. 
 In the disclosure, bacillus licheniformis can be with the bacterial strain of deposit number KCCM11270P preservation. 
 In the disclosure, it is prepared for including bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus
(KCCM11144P) and the fodder compound of bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P). 
 The composition of the disclosure may include bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P)
With bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P), count of bacteria is 1 × 10 4 CFU to 1 × 10 11 Every gram of Active principals of CFU.Tool
Body, count of bacteria can be 1 × 10 4 CFU/g to 1 × 10 10 CFU/g, and more specifically, the composition of the disclosure includes withered
Careless bacillus (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P) and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P),
Count of bacteria is 1 × 10 8 CFU/g to 1 × 10 10 CFU/g。 
 For the target of the disclosure, the bacillus subtilis that active constituent is included as in fodder compound can only include
Bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P). 
 For the target of the disclosure, the bacillus pumilus that active constituent is included as in fodder compound can only include
Bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P). 
 For the target of the disclosure, the bacillus licheniformis that active constituent is included as in fodder compound can only include
Bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P). 
 As used herein, term " Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis (AHPND) " refers to a kind of entitled Deaths syndrome
(EMS) or the disease of acute Hepatopancreatic necrosis syndrome (AHPNS), synoptically refer in being placed in aquatic farm in 30 days
The death of the group as caused by pathogen (mass mortality).AHPND is caused by vibrio parahaemolytious, is that one kind is present in seawater
In pathogen, cause largely to infect in white leg shrimp, account for South Korea cultivation shrimp about 96%.Since the height of life early stage is dead
Rate, its prawn is harmful, but it is harmless to the mankind.Vibrio parahaemolytious is the gram-Negative bacillus for belonging to vibrio, in the mankind
In cause acute food poisoning and enteritis and cause the vibriosis of fish.Recently, vibrio parahaemolytious has been confirmed to be acute hepatopancrease
The pathogenic bacteria of downright bad disease (AHPND) causes the group in Shrimp farming dead. 
 As used herein, term " prevention " refers to by giving the composition including bacillus subtilis according to the disclosure
Any behavior for causing the symptom of prawn AHPND to inhibit or postpone. 
 As used herein, term " treatment " refers to that by giving include bacillus subtilis according to the disclosure
(KCCM11143P) any action that composition leads to the remission of prawn AHPND or fully recovers. 
 Other than the contained above-mentioned bacterial strains as active constituent, composition may include drug, food or feed applications can
The known carrier or additive received.In the disclosure, as the probiotics with the antibacterial activity for resisting vibrio parahaemolytious
Preparation comprising bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P) and bacillus licheniformis
(KCCM11270P), the deterioration of probiotics preparation quality is prevented added with adhesive, emulsifier, preservative etc.
(deterioration)；And feed addition have amino acid, vitamin, enzyme, flavoring agent, non-protein nitrogen compound, silicate,
Buffer, extractant, oligosaccharides etc. are to improve the effect of probiotics preparation.It in addition to this, can further comprise forage mixture etc.,
But the present disclosure is not limited thereto. 
 In embodiment of the present disclosure, AHPND is resisted to whether shrimp feeding feed stuff composition can improve as confirmation
Immunity and show disease prevention effect as a result, confirmed compared to comparing embodiment 1 is wherein given (does not include prebiotic
Bacterium) with the group (BS group 3 and 4) of comparing embodiment 3 and 4 (only including bacillus subtilis), wherein be given the disclosure includes
Bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain, bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P) bacterial strain and bacillus licheniformis
(KCCM11270P) it is secondary molten that shrimp resistance can be improved in the group (BS+BP+BL group 1 and 2) of the fodder compound (embodiment 5 and 6) of bacterial strain
The disease resistance of blood vibrio infection and the toxin amount for significantly reducing AHPND in shrimp hepatopancrease. 
 In the other embodiment of the disclosure, the non-specificity for including the fodder compound of above-mentioned bacterial strains as analysis is exempted from
The result of epidemic disease power, it is found that macrophage (NBT) activity, glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity, lysozyme activity, phenol
Oxidizing ferment (PO) activity, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and antiprotease activity are significantly higher than that in comparing embodiment
A bit.Based on this result, it is seen that composition can be used for improving the nonspecific immune response of shrimp or improve its immunity. 
 Present disclose provides the feed addictives for shrimp aquaculture comprising above-mentioned fodder compound. 
 In the feed addictive of the disclosure, in addition to above-mentioned active constituent, drug, food or feed applications can be added
Acceptable known carrier or stabilizer.When necessary, such as all kinds of vitamin, amino acid and minerals can be added
Nutrient, antioxidant and other additives, shape can be it is convenient to its, such as powder, particle, pellet and suspension
Liquid.When feed addictive of the supply according to the disclosure, the feed addictive can separately supply or mix with feed supply
Nonruminantia animal. 
 In addition, present disclose provides the feeds for shrimp aquaculture comprising above-mentioned feed addictive. 
 Bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain, bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) bacterial strain and the ground of the disclosure
Clothing bacillus (KCCM11270P) bacterial strain is the gram-positive bacterium with sporogenesis ability, preferably with spore
Form is formulated, but not limited to this.The feed of the disclosure is not particularly limited, and such as powder feed, solid feed, wet ball
Grain feed, dry pellet feed, extruder pellet (EP) feed and any feed of former feed (raw feed) are all available. 
 As described above, bacillus forms endospore, therefore highly stable to heat.Therefore, the withered grass gemma of the disclosure
Bacillus (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P) can be made respectively
For at feed addictive form, then mixed with feed, or can be produced and being directly appended to feed when preparing feed.
It may be at liquid or drying including bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and the bacillus licheniformis in disclosure feed
State, and it is preferably at the form of dried powder.Drying process can by being air-dried, spontaneously dry, be spray-dried and
Freeze-drying carries out, but not limited to this.Bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), the bacillus pumilus of the disclosure
(KCCM1114P) and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P) can weight based on feed, with by weight 0.05% to
10%, preferably by weight 0.1% to 1% amount is mixed into powder type.The bacillus subtilis of the disclosure, short and small bud
Spore bacillus and bacillus licheniformis can be with 1 to 5:1 to 5:1 to 5 concentration than mixing.In addition, feed is used for aquaculture, and
And in addition to the bacillus subtilis of the disclosure (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) and bacillus licheniformis
(KCCM11270P) except, feed can further comprise the conventional additives that can be improved the keeping quality of feed. 
 In order to achieve the above objectives, another aspect of the present disclosure is provided for preventing or treating Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis
Method, the fodder compound including giving the disclosure to object. 
 Herein, the Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis of the disclosure, prevention and treatment are as described above. 
 As used herein, term " object " can be referred to fish or crustacean (its cultivation is possible), and it has suddenly
Property Hepatopancreatic necrosis disease or in the risk for developing Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis, but the object may refer to according to the disclosure
Target shrimp. 
 Feed is preferably with amount identical with conventional feed and identical feeding floor every supply.In addition, pathogen refers to
The bacterium for causing group's death of shrimp by inducing AHPND in shrimp aquaculture, and specifically may refer to vibrio parahaemolytious. 
 In shrimp aquaculture, the reason of group's death not only include vibrio parahaemolytious and also including by it is various virus caused by sense
The concentration of ammonia in dye and cultivation water.Albumen of the ammonia as shrimp excreta, feed waste etc. in shrimp aquaculture, in cultivation water
The metabolin of matter occurs, and it greatly changes with the raising of pH and water temperature.High strength ammonia is the direct of shrimp acute death
Reason causes group dead；And low concentration ammonia on long terms can lead to the growth and feeding ability and immunity of shrimp
It reduces, and then can lead to the development of various diseases. 
 In embodiment of the present disclosure, to wherein by the cultivation water progress of the shrimp of the fodder compound of the feeding disclosure
It collects and analyzes, and as a result, total ammonia density is substantially less than the total ammonia density compareed in discovery cultivation water, thus the disclosure
Bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain, bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P) bacterial strain and bacillus licheniformis
(KCCM11270P) water quality of the water of cultivation shrimp can be improved in bacterial strain. 
 As described above, the bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) of the disclosure, bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) and ground
The disease resistance that shrimp not only can be enhanced in clothing bacillus (KCCM11270P) can also inhibit the toxin of AHPND in shrimp hepatopancrease.
Therefore, by using the bacterial strain, the effect that prevention causes the vibrio parahaemolytious of disease can be obtained, it is also possible to obtain enhancing pair
The effect of the resistance of white spot syndrome virus, so as to more safely cultivate shrimp. 
 In order to achieve the above objectives, the another aspect of the disclosure is provided for preventing or treating guttate morphea syndrome
(WSS) fodder compound, including as the bacillus subtilis strain of active constituent, strain of i (bacillus) pumilus and lichens bud
Spore bacillus strain；Its culture medium；Its concentrate；Or its dry matter. 
 The term bacillus subtilis of the disclosure, bacillus licheniformis, prevents and treats institute as above at bacillus pumilus
It states. 
 The composition of the disclosure may include bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P)
With bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P), count of bacteria is 1 × 10 4 CFU to 1 × 10 11 Every gram of Active principals of CFU.Tool
Body, count of bacteria can be 1 × 10 4 CFU/g to 1 × 10 10 CFU/g, and more specifically, the composition of the disclosure includes withered
Careless bacillus (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P) and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P),
Count of bacteria is 1 × 10 8 CFU/g to 1 × 10 10 CFU/g。 
 As used herein, term " white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) " refers to the virus being distributed widely in all over the world.By
There is shape of tail attachment in virion end in WSSV, and there is the form similar to egg type bacillus, wherein there are bars
Shape shell and envelope, therefore it is considered as baculoviral or the virus that bacillus sample is formed；However, recently, it is weighed
It is named as whispovirus, this is a kind of viral group genetically new.The virus is about 275nm, diameter about 120nm, and by
The double-stranded DNA of size about 290kb forms. 
 Composition may include that drug, food or feed applications can connect other than the contained above-mentioned bacterial strains as active constituent
The known carrier or additive received.In the disclosure, as the prebiotic of the antiviral activity with resistance white spot syndrome virus
Bacteria preparation comprising bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P) and bacillus licheniformis
(KCCM11270P), the deterioration of probiotics preparation quality is prevented added with adhesive, emulsifier, preservative etc.；And feed
Added with amino acid, vitamin, enzyme, flavoring agent, non-protein nitrogen compound, silicate, buffer, extractant, oligosaccharides etc. to mention
The effect of high probiotics preparation.It in addition to this, can further comprise forage mixture etc., but the present disclosure is not limited thereto. 
 In embodiment of the present disclosure, hickie synthesis is resisted as whether confirmation can improve to shrimp feeding feed stuff composition
The immunity of sign and show disease prevention effect as a result, confirmed (do not include compared to being wherein given comparing embodiment 1
Probiotics) and only include bacillus subtilis KCCM11143P bacterial strain fodder compound (comparing embodiment 4) group (BS group
4), wherein be given the disclosure includes bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain, bacillus pumilus
(KCCM11144P) group (BS of the fodder compound (embodiment 5 and 6) of bacterial strain and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P) bacterial strain
+ BP+BL group 1 and the disease resistance that shrimp resistance white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) infection 2) can be improved. 
 In the other embodiment of the disclosure, as confirmation to white spot syndrome virus when to shrimp feeding feed stuff composition
Whether the resistance of malicious (WSSV) and compound (complex) of Acute Hepatic pancreatic necrosis (AHPND) infection improves and survival rate
It is that whether reinforcing effect can show as a result, it is confirmed compared to be wherein given comparing embodiment 1 (not including probiotics) and only
The group (BS group 4) of fodder compound (comparing embodiment 4) including bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain, wherein by giving
It gives including bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain, bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P) bacterial strain and bacillus licheniformis
(KCCM11270P) shrimp resistance can be enhanced in the group (BS+BP+BL group 1 and 2) of the fodder compound (embodiment 5 and 6) of bacterial strain
The disease resistance of the compound infection of WSSV and AHPND. 
 Present disclose provides the feed addictives for shrimp aquaculture, including above-mentioned fodder compound. 
 In the feed addictive of the disclosure, drug, food or the feed that can be added other than above-mentioned active constituent are used
Acceptable known carrier or stabilizer on the way.When necessary, all kinds of such as vitamin, amino acid and minerals can be added
Nutrient, antioxidant and other additives, shape can be it is convenient to its, such as powder, particle, pellet and outstanding
Supernatant liquid.When feed addictive of the supply according to the disclosure, the feed addictive can separately supply or mix with feed confession
Give Nonruminantia animal. 
 In addition, present disclose provides the feed for shrimp aquaculture, including above-mentioned feed addictive. 
 Bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) bacterial strain, bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) bacterial strain and the ground of the disclosure
Clothing bacillus (KCCM11270P) bacterial strain is the gram-positive bacterium with sporogenesis ability, preferably with spore
Form is formulated, but not limited to this.The feed of the disclosure is not particularly limited, and such as powder feed, solid feed, wet ball
Grain feed, dry pellet feed, extruder pellet (EP) feed and former feed any feed be all available. 
 As described above, bacillus forms endospore, therefore highly stable to heat.Therefore, the withered grass gemma of the disclosure
Bacillus (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P) can be made respectively
For at feed addictive form, then mixed with feed, or can be produced and being directly appended to feed when preparing feed.
Bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and the bacillus licheniformis for including in the feed of the disclosure may be at liquid or drying
State, and it is preferably at the form of dried powder.Drying process can by being air-dried, spontaneously dry, be spray-dried and
Freeze-drying carries out, but not limited to this.Bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), the bacillus pumilus of the disclosure
(KCCM1114P) and bacillus licheniformis (KCCM11270P) can weight based on feed, with by weight 0.05% to
10%, preferably by weight 0.1% to 1% amount is mixed into powder type.In addition, feed is used for aquaculture, and
In addition to the bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P), bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) and bacillus licheniformis of the disclosure
(KCCM11270P) except, feed can further comprise the conventional additives that can be improved the keeping quality of feed. 
 In order to achieve the above objectives, the another aspect of the disclosure provides the side for preventing or treating guttate morphea syndrome
Method, the fodder compound including giving the disclosure to object. 
 Herein, the term guttate morphea syndrome of the disclosure, prevent, treat it is as described above with object. 
 In shrimp aquaculture, the reason of group's death not only include vibrio parahaemolytious and also including by it is various virus caused by sense
Dye.Specifically, virus may refer to white spot syndrome virus (WSSV). 
 As described above, the bacillus subtilis (KCCM11143P) of the disclosure, bacillus pumilus (KCCM1114P) and ground
Clothing bacillus (KCCM11270P) can obtain the effect of resistance of the enhancing to white spot syndrome virus (WSSV), so as to
More safely cultivate shrimp. 
 
 
 Specific embodiment 
 Hereinafter, the disclosure will be described in detail by illustrative embodiments.However, these illustrative embodiments are only
For exemplary purposes and it is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. 
 Preparing embodiment 1. has the selection of probiotics of antibacterial activity 
 In order to select to carry out transparent region with the bacterial strain for the antibacterial activity for resisting the vibrio parahaemolytious for inducing shrimp AHPND
(clear zone) test.By the pathogen shake culture (2.0 × 10 of 0.5% agar (3mL) and 100 μ L 9 CFU/mL it) mixes
Merging is seeded in TSA + To prepare upper layer (top layer, top) agar on culture medium.12 kinds of bacillus subtilis strains are (by CJ
CheilJedang holds and is commercial strain) culture, the amount of each is 10 μ L, drip in prepared top-layer agar
Top (top, top), cultivate 18 hours at 30 DEG C, and observe cleaning region in the presence/absence of.It assesses together commercially available
Bacillus subtilis and compound bacteriophage antibacterial activity. 
 [table 1] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ++++: is strongly active ,+: there are activity ,-: it is inactive 
 Shown in table 1 as above, 1 microorganism of bacillus subtilis (CJBS-01) shows the secondary haemolysis that resistance causes AHPND
The most excellent in-vitro antibacterial effect of vibrios.Although however, the microorganism shows that the in-vitro antibacterial for resisting special pathogen is living
Property, but observed antibacterial activity is in vitro effects, and it is not necessarily mean that animal takes the photograph vibrio parahaemolytious
Take the preventive effect that will be supplied to animal immunizing power or resist special pathogen. 
 Therefore, in following experiments, investigated when feeding to shrimp when bacillus subtilis 1 (CJBS-01) microorganism whether
It will lead to the disease prevention effect for showing immunity raising and shrimp resistance AHPND disease.In addition, also having investigated bacillus subtilis
Whether 1 (CJBS-01) has an impact to weight gain and digestibility. 
 Bacillus subtilis 1 (CJBS-01) is to be preserved in Korean Culture Center (Korean on December 14th, 2010
Culture Center of Microorganisms) (KCCM) bacterial strain, and specified deposit number is KCCM11143P. 
 Prepare preparation of the embodiment 2. for the fodder compound containing bacillus subtilis of shrimp 
 Preparation preparation embodiment 1 selected in containing bacillus subtilis 1 (deposit number KCCM11143P, hereinafter
For the fodder compound of " BS "). 
 Specifically, the comparing embodiment 1 without bacillus subtilis, containing commercially available bacillus kind (that is, three seed buds
Spore bacillus kind (bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis) is mixed with object) comparing embodiment 2
With containing selected amount be 10 10 The composition of the embodiment 1 of the bacillus subtilis 1 (BS) of × 0.2CFU/g respectively with fish oil and water
Mixing, and prepared with pellet form.Using drier by the fodder compound of comparing embodiment 1 and 2 and embodiment 1 at 25 DEG C
It is about 24 hours dry, and store at -20 DEG C until subsequent experimental. 
 [table 2] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. fodder compound of EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE resists the assessment of the preventive effect of AHPND 
 The preparation of 1-1. shrimp and the assessment of growth rate 
 40 water tanks in total prepare 30 white leg shrimps in each water tank.All Experimental Water Tanks are equipped with gas stone (air
Stones) to maintain dissolved oxygen, and in the range of water tank temperature is maintained 28 DEG C to 32 DEG C during entire experiment.To have
Limit is supplied in feeding feed stuff (the 4% to 12% of fish weight) four times a day. 
 The weight of shrimp is measured every 2 weeks.Evaluation item and calculation equation relevant to growth rate and feed effect are as follows: 
 Weight gain (%)= 
 100 × (the final initial average weight of average weight -)/average weights 
 Feed conversion rate (%)=weight gain amount/feed intake amount 
 Daily than growth rate (% days -1 )= 
 100×(log e Final weight-log e Original body mass)/number of days 
 In order to test feed distribution, and carry out the design of completely random and be passed through using 18.0 program of SPSS version unidirectional
ANOVA carrys out the result of statistical analysis growth and analysis.In Duncan multiple range test (Duncan ' s multiple range
Test) compare the significant difference of data value between (P < 0.05).Data are represented as average value ± SD, and percent data is counted
It calculates for arcsine transformation value and by statistical analysis. 
 [table 3] 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Control group 1 
 Control group 2 
 BS group 1 
 
 
 IBW 1 (g) 
 0.51±0.01 
 0.51±0.01 
 0.51±0.01 
 
 
 FBW 2 (g) 
 3.49±0.12 bc   
 3.80±0.22 ab   
 3.86±0.18 a   
 
 
 WG 3 (%) 
 592±18.9 c   
 655±39.3 ab   
 667±31.9 a   
 
 
 SGR 4 (%) 
 6.04±0.09 b   
 6.31±0.16 a   
 6.37±0.13 a   
 
 
 FCR 5   
 1.30±0.26 
 1.28±0.09 
 1.19±0.12 
 
 
 Survival rate (%) 
 80.0±3.33 
 75.6±6.94 
 71.1±6.94 
 
 
 
 
 
   1 IBW: original body mass 
   2 FBW: final weight 
   3 WG: weight gain (%)=[(final weight-original body mass)/original body mass] × 100 
   4 SGR: daily than growth rate (% days -1 )=[(log e Final weight-log e Original body mass)/number of days] × 100 
   5 FCR: feed conversion rate=feeding dry feed/wet weight gain 
 As shown in table 3, as feeding inspection as a result, confirmed compared to respectively with comparing embodiment 1 and relatively more real
Control group 1 and control group 2 that the fodder compound of example 2 provides are applied, with bacillus subtilis 1 selected in the embodiment 1 containing preparation
(BS) the BS group 1 that the fodder compound of embodiment 1 provides shows significant higher growth rate.In addition, confirmed to implement
The daily of the group that the fodder compound of example 1 provides is significantly higher than respectively than growth rate with comparing embodiment 1 and comparing embodiment 2
The group that fodder compound provides. 
 The test of the invasion of 1-2. vibrio parahaemolytious prawn 
 The test of the invasion of vibrio parahaemolytious prawn is carried out through two sseparated tests in total.The cholerae strain the case where
Under, the bacterial strain for causing AHPND (EMS) in Vietnam's separation in 2013 is used in testing for.Invasion test is following to be carried out: by embodiment
Fodder compound feed and continue two weeks to shrimp, then will there is the shrimp of identical weight (average weight: 2.32g) to be distributed into 4
It repeats, wherein every group of 96 shrimps.Using TSB + Culture medium, at 30 DEG C, with 150rpm culture bacterium 24 hours, and by concentration
It is 2 × 10 9 Suspension impregnation 20 acrylic acid water tanks (110L, working bodies of the vibrio parahaemolytious (30mL) of CFU (OD:1.7)
Each of product: 72.5L).After dipping, the survival rate and travelling state of shrimp are confirmed per hour, and after 8 hours, replacement
95% water.Three times a day (in 8:30,13:30 and 18:30), in a limited manner, divided dose gives test feed (fish body weight
10 to 12%), observe dead degree 70 hours.As the result is shown in the following table 4. 
 [table 4] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shown in table 4 as above, compared to control group 1 and control group 2, with bacillus subtilis selected in the embodiment 1 containing preparation
The BS group 1 that the fodder compound of bacterium 1 (BS) provides shows higher survival rate in the invasion test of vibrio parahaemolytious prawn. 
 In addition, it is as shown in Figure 1, it is generally observed after impregnating vibrio parahaemolytious in above-mentioned two test, shrimp
It is mobile to become slowly, and they are sitting in the bottom of water tank without travelling activity, and and their feed intake is also not actively.?
After 8 hours, the rapid death of shrimp starts to occur dipping, and the survival rate of BS group 1 is up to compared to control group 1 or control group 2
Few 17%. 
 The method that 1-3. collects the method and histopathological analysis of sample 
 Vibrio parahaemolytious prawn invasion test beginning (before infection), interlude (infection) and completion it is each when
Between at point, two shrimps of every group of random selection simultaneously extract its hepatopancrease.A part of extracted hepatopancrease is stored in ethyl alcohol
(100%) in, for quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) analysis, and another part is fixed on Davidson fixative (Davidson ' s
Fixative it 24 hours in), is then stored in ethyl alcohol (70%), is used for histopathological analysis. 
 More specifically, carrying out histopathological analysis by the following method. 
 In order to minimize the damage to the hepatic tissue of extraction, 1mL syringe is used immediately after the sampling of each water tank
Davidson fixative is injected in the hepatopancrease of shrimp, and extracts hepatopancrease.Then, the hepatopancrease of each extraction is being contained
24 hours are fixed in the 1.5mLEppendorf pipe of Davidson fixative, is stored in ethyl alcohol (70%), and for analyzing.It is complete
After fixation, organ is trimmed to the thickness having a size of from about 2mm to about 3mm, is suitable for preparing tissue samples and is inserted into box
(cassette) in, and by their tissue treatment 13 hours.These are organized into the thinly-sliced thickness at about 4 μm, and is received with brush
Collection gained sample, is attached on each glass slide without any wrinkle, is placed in air about 5 minutes, then carries out
H&E dyeing.After completing dyeing, using phase contrast microscope (BX50, Olympus), using for microscopical specialized procedure
(TCapture, Tucen Photonics) takes pictures glass slide under 200 × magnifying power.Then, in the hepatopancrease of sampling
The amount of existing AHPND toxin carries out qPCR analysis. 
 As the result is shown in Fig. 2, wherein lower Ct value indicates the toxin of higher amount. 
 In the hepatopancrease of time point (the i.e. 0 hour) sampling before invasion test, AHPND is not detected in all groups
Toxin, and in 10 hour time point (i.e. 10h of invasion test；When the quantity highest of dead object) sampling hepatopancrease in,
AHPND toxin is detected in all samples.However, being provided with compared with control group 1 and control group 2 comprising according to this public affairs
The BS group 1 of the fodder compound of the bacillus subtilis opened shows significant higher Ct value, and 24 in invasion test are small
When point in time sampling hepatopancrease in, the AHPND toxin of floor level is detected in BS group 1.In addition, in invasion test
It terminates time point (i.e. 193 hours), AHPND toxin is not detected in BS group 1 and control group 2. 
 In addition, the histopathological analysis result of hepatopancrease is shown in Fig. 3. 
 In the hepatopancrease of time point (the i.e. 0 hour) sampling before invasion test, abnormal structure is observed in all groups.
In the hepatopancrease of 10 hours point in time sampling, the level of damage in control group 1 is shown as most serious, and in BS group 1 and right
According to the progress for observing tissue necrosis in group 2.In the hepatopancrease of 24 hours point in time sampling, inflammation is observed, rather than by
Tissue necrosis caused by AHPND toxin.In the hepatopancrease of termination time point (the i.e. 193 hours) sampling of invasion test, due to
37 hours time points, it is dead to occur 100% in control group 1, therefore can not be sampled, and in BS group 1 and control group 2
In observe some inflammatory cells. 
 From result above it has been confirmed that the fodder compound of the bacillus subtilis containing the with good grounds disclosure can not only mention
The disease resistance that high shrimp infects vibrio parahaemolytious, but also the amount of AHPND toxin in the hepatopancrease of shrimp can be significantly reduced. 
 EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 2. is evaluated according to the concentration of bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis to be grown
Rate and immunity 
 Consider in preparation embodiment 2 as a result, preparation includes bacillus subtilis 1 selected in preparation embodiment 1
(KCCM11143P, below is " BS "), bacillus pumilus (KCCM11144P, below is " BP ") and lichens gemma
The fodder compound (embodiment 1 to 5) of the various concentration of each of bacillus (KCCM11270P, below is " BL ").
As the result is shown in the following table 5. 
 [table 5] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The composition of each group is prepared by the way that fish oil and water, mixing and then granulation is added in table 5.Using drier by table 5
The composition of middle each group is about 24 hours dry at 25 DEG C, and stores at -20 DEG C until subsequent experimental. 
 The preparation of 2-1. shrimp and the assessment of growth rate 
 Prepare five white leg shrimps in each water tank in 280 water tanks in total.All Experimental Water Tanks are equipped with gas
Stone is to maintain dissolved oxygen, and in the range of the temperature of water tank maintains 28 DEG C to 32 DEG C during entire experiment.Feed is daily
Feeding 4 times, continues 8 weeks, limited supply (the 6% to 12% of fish weight, original body mass: 0.14 gram). 
 The weight of shrimp is measured every 2 weeks.Evaluation item relevant to growth rate and feed efficiency and calculation equation are as follows: 
 Weight gain (%)= 
 100 × (the final initial average weight of average weight -)/average weights 
 Feed conversion rate (%)=weight gain amount/feed intake amount 
 Daily than growth rate (% days -1 )= 
 100×(log e Final weight-log e Original body mass)/number of days 
 As the result is shown in the following table 6. 
 [table 6] 
 
 
 
 *(P<0.05) 
   1 IBW: original body mass 
   2 FBW: final weight 
   3 WG: weight gain (%)=[(final weight-original body mass)/original body mass] × 100 
   4 SGR: daily than growth rate (% days -1 )=[(log e Final weight-log e Original body mass)/number of days] × 100 
   5 FCR: feed conversion rate=feeding dry feed/wet weight gain 
 As shown in table 6 and Fig. 4, compared to those of before feeding, all groups of shrimp of feeding 8 weeks is shown more than 7,
000% growth rate.Specifically, the final average weight of BS group 1 (fodder compound for being provided with embodiment 1) and BS group 2 (mention
Be provided with the fodder compound of embodiment 2) final average weight distinguish big 15.7% He than the final average weight of control group 1
16.7%.Final average weight, the BS+BP group 2 of BS+BP group 1 (fodder compound for being provided with embodiment 3) (are provided with implementation
The fodder compound of example 4) final average weight and BS+BP+BL group 1 (fodder compound for being provided with embodiment 5) it is final
Average weight has increased separately 7.8%, 15.6% and 8.8% compared to the final average weight of control group 1.In addition, about every
Day than growth rate, the value of BS group 1 and BS group 2 is shown respectively compared to control group 1 increases by 3.4% and 4.1%.BS+BP group 1, BS+
BP group 2 and the daily of BS+BP+BL group 1 increase separately 2.4%, 3.4% and 2.5% compared to control group 1 than growth rate.BS group 1
27.5% and 26.1% is respectively increased compared to control group 1 with the feed efficiency of BS group 2.BS+BP group 1, BS+BP group 2 and BS+BP
The feed efficiency of+BL group 1 is respectively increased 11.1%, 20.9% and 13.1% compared to control group 1.However, all groups of Prawns
Survival rate is not significantly different. 
 2-2. sample collection 
 Every 2 weeks to test shrimp weigh, and all test shrimps all before measuring fasting in 18 hours to reduce answering for shrimp
Swash (stress). 
 After measuring final weight, 7 shrimps are randomly choosed from each water tank and are anaesthetized in ice water, and use passes through
The syringe collecting hemolymph of Alsever solution (Alsever ' s solution) processing.The hemolymph of collection is for analyzing nitrogen
Blue tetrazolium (NBT) activity, wherein using the sample of centrifuge (800g, 10 minutes, 4 DEG C) separation serum for analyzing non-specificity
Immunity. 
 About the collection for the shrimp excrement analyzed for digestibility, clean water is more brought by siphon and water after feeding 30 minutes
Remaining feed and impurity in case, and hereafter 3 hours, the excrement of excretion is collected using siphon pipe.The sample of collection distills
Water washing is filtered by filter paper, and is stored in -40 DEG C of deep freeze refrigerator until with the sample that performs an analysis. 
 2-3. statistical analysis 
 For testing the distribution of feed, completely random design is carried out, and pass through unidirectionally using 18.0 program of SPSS version
The result of ANOVA statistical analysis growth and analysis.Compare the aobvious of data value between Duncan multiple range test (P < 0.05)
Write difference.Data are represented as average value ± SD, and percent data is calculated as arcsine transformation value and by statistical analysis. 
 The analysis of 2-4. conventional ingredient 
 The conventional ingredient of test feed and excrement is analyzed according to AOAC (2005) method；Pass through atmospheric pressure heat drying method
(125 DEG C, 3h) (Kejltec system 2300, Sweden) analysis moisture content；Pass through (550 DEG C, 4h) analysis cinders of direct incineration method
Point；Crude protein is analyzed by automation crude protein analysis instrument (Kejltec system 2300, Sweden)；And pass through Folch et al.
(1957) method analyzes thick lipid.As the result is shown in the following table 7. 
 [table 7] 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Control group 1 
 Control group 2 
 BS group 1 
 BS group 2 
 BS+BP group 1 
 BS+BP group 2 
 BS+BP+BL group 1 
 
 
 Dry matter 
 24.9±0.35 
 24.5±0.10 
 23.7±0.39 
 23.7±0.35 
 25.1±0.36 
 24.3±0.23 
 24.3±0.16 
 
 
 Coarse ash 
 12.9±2.34 
 12.8±0.12 
 12.3±0.33 
 14.5±0.22 
 14.8±3.47 
 13.9±1.46 
 14.6±3.60 
 
 
 Crude protein 
 76.5±3.46 b   
 82.0±1.67 a   
 84.3±2.85 a   
 83.9±2.31 a   
 79.4±2.23 ab   
 82.0±3.58 a   
 81.8±1.52 a   
 
 
 Thick lipid 
 5.37±0.96 
 5.45±1.15 
 5.09±0.28 
 5.26±1.05 
 5.29±0.12 
 5.40±0.53 
 5.59±0.73 
 
 
 
 
 
 (*P<0.05) 
 As shown in table 7, the content about coarse ash and thick lipid is not significantly different between group.However, in BS group 2
The content of crude protein is significantly higher compared to the content of control group 1 and the crude protein of control group 2.That is, confirmed provide when to shrimp
When according to the fodder compound of the disclosure, the protein content of shrimp can be increased. 
 2-5. analysis relevant to nospecific immunity 
 2-5-1. nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) active analysis 
 It is exploded (respiratory explosion) phase using the analysis method measurement respiratory of Zhang et al. (2013)
Between neutrophil cell generate oxyradical amount. 
 Specifically, firstly, by Hank balanced salt solution (Hank ' the s balanced of hemolymph (50 μ L) and 200 μ L
Salt solution) (HBSS) mixing, and react it at 25 DEG C.After 30 minutes, 100 μ L zymosans are added thereto
It (0.1%Hank solution) and is reacted 2 hours at 37 DEG C.NBT solution (0.3%) is added simultaneously with the amount of 100 μ L thereto every time
It is reacted 2 hours at 37 DEG C.100% methanol (600 μ L) is added thereto and mixture is centrifuged 10 with the rate of 6,500rpm
Minute.Liquid is discarded supernatant, and is washed pellet 3 times with 70% methanol (100 μ L), and is 5 minutes dry.Then, it is added thereto
2M KOH (700 μ L) and DMSO (800 μ L), and at 620nm measure gains absorbance. 
 2-5-2. glutathione peroxidase (GPx) active analysis 
 Use the GPx activity in GPx kit (California Biovision, Inc.) analysis serum. 
 Specifically, as cumene hydroperoxide, wherein mixed peroxides substrate (ROOH), glutathione reductase are used
(GSSG-R) and reduction b- nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate (b-nicotinamide adenine
Denucleotide phosphate) (NADPH) reaction mixture.Firstly, tablet is added in hemolymph sample (50 μ L)
In device (microplater), and reaction mixture (40 μ L) is added thereto and reacts.Then, hydroperoxidation is added thereto
Cumene (10 μ L) measures the absorbance of gains after five minutes at 340nm.GPx activity is calculated as nmol/min/mL. 
 2-5-3. the analysis of lysozyme activity 
 Method analysis lysozyme activity analysis based on Swain et al. (2007). 
 Specifically, lysozyme is the antibacterial enzyme for participating in non-specific (congenital) immune response, is with non specific manner
Rather than the enzyme for resisting the antibacterial activity of various bacteriums is shown with the specificity pattern for specific bacteria. 
 The antibacterial mechanisms for resisting pathogen are the β-Isosorbide-5-Nitrae-glycosidic bond antibacterial actions for hydrolyzing peptide glycan, and peptide glycan is bacterium
The component part of cell wall, to destroy bacteria cell wall.Lysozyme is especially effective to gram-positive bacterium.Based on this machine
System, lysozyme activity are widely used in analysis to measure the nonspecific immune response in shrimp (including fish).When by immunostimulation
When object (such as ascorbic acid, beta glucan, probiotics etc.) is added in shrimp feed, it can be confirmed in the hemolymph and tissue of shrimp
Lysozyme activity improves, and these results are interpreted to increase nonspecific immune response or improve the immunity of fish (shrimp). 
 2-5-4. phenol oxidase (PO) active analysis 
 Method analysis phenol oxidase (PO) activity based on Hernandez-Lopez et al. (1996). 
 Specifically, phenol oxidase is the enzyme played a significant role in the defense mechanism of Crustaceans, in haemocyte
In in the form of phenol oxidase exist and by preceding phenol oxidase activation system activate.The phenol oxidase of activation generates opsonin,
Promote the phagocytosis of haemocyte and to the encapsulation action of exotic antigen and participates in blood coagulation reaction.Therefore, in hemolymph
Phenoloxidase activity is used as the important indicator of the innate immunity of shrimp. 
 2-5-5. superoxide dismutase (SOD) active analysis 
 Use SOD assay kit (Sigma-Aldrich, 19160, St. Louis, the U.S.) analysis SOD activity. 
 Specifically, free radical detector (radical detector) (20 μ L) is added in 96 orifice plates, and will be every
A blood sample (20 μ L) is added in each hole.Then, xanthine oxidase (20 μ L) is added thereto and reacts 20 minutes.
The absorbance of gains is measured at 450nm using Microplate Reader (Thermo). 
 2-5-6. the analysis of antiprotease activity 
 Use the activity of antiprotease in the analytical hemolymph of Ellis (1990). 
 Specifically, by hemolymph (20 μ L) and standard trypsinization solution (20 μ L；II-S type from pig pancreas, Sigma-
Aldrich, A2765, St. Louis, the U.S.) it mixes and is cultivated 10 minutes at 22 DEG C.Phosphate buffer is added thereto
(200μL；0.1M, pH7.0) and azo-casein (2%) (250 μ L；Sigma-Aldrich), cultivated 1 hour at 22 DEG C, and
Trichloroacetic acid (500 μ L are added again thereto；10%) (TCA), and cultivated 30 minutes at 22 DEG C.Culture solution is centrifuged
(6000g, 5 minutes), and gains (100 μ L) are inoculated into 96 orifice plates, and 1N NaOH (100 μ L) is added thereto, and
The absorbance of gains is measured at 430nm using Microplate Reader. 
 The knot for wherein having carried out the EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE 2-5-1 to 2-5-6 of nospecific immunity credit analysis is shown in the following table 8
Fruit. 
 [table 8] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (*P<0.05) 
   1 Nitroblue tetrazolium；Phagocytic activity (absorbance) 
   2 Phenoloxidase activity (absorbance) 
   3 Antiprotease (% inhibiting rate) 
   4 Lysozyme activity (μ g mL -1 ) 
   5 Superoxide dismutase (% inhibiting rate) 
   6 Glutathione peroxidase (mU mL -1 ) 
 As shown in table 8 and Fig. 5, about NBT activity and PO activity, BS group 1, BS group 2, BS+BP group 1,2 and of BS+BP group
BS+BP+BL group 1 is all shown compared to control group 1 and the significant higher value of control group 2；And specifically, in the active feelings of PO
Under condition, the value of BS group 1 is shown compared to control group 1 high 26.8%.About antiprotease activity, BS group 1, BS group 2, BS+BP group 2
It all shows with BS+BP+BL group 1 compared to control group 1 and the significant higher value of control group 2；And specifically, the value of BS group 1
Display is compared to control group 1 high 15.8%.About lysozyme activity and SOD activity, BS group 1, BS group 2, BS+BP group 1, BS+BP
Group 2 and BS+BP+BL group 1 all shows significant compared to control group 1 higher.About GPx activity, BS group 1, BS group 2, BS+BP group 1,
The value of BS+BP group 2 and BS+BP+BL group 1 all shows significant compared to control group 1 and control group 2 higher；And specifically, BS group
The value of 1 and BS group 2, which is shown, distinguishes high 27.7% and 28.8% compared to control group 1. 
 The analysis of 2-6. water quality and the experiment of zero water coke slurry 
 During 8 weeks of administering transgenic, primary culture water sample is collected from each water tank within every 5 days.Phase from each case
Sample is collected with position, and measures dissolved oxygen (DO), salinity, pH and ammonia (NH 4   + ) concentration level.Pass through Thermo
Scientific Orion Star A216 Benchtop Meter (ThermoScientific) measures DO, passes through Master
Refractometer (ATAGO) measures salinity.PH is measured by Seven Compact (METTLER TOLEDO), and passes through root
NH is analyzed according to the method for Verdouw et al. (1978) 4   + Concentration. 
 It is 2.87 (± 0.08) g's by average weight using zero water changing method (zero water change method)
12 white leg shrimps (Penaeus Vannmei (L.vannamei)) are put into each 96L water tank of 14 water tanks in total at random.Each
Test group is there are two repeating, and one day four times, with divided dose (in 08:30,12:00,15:30 and 19:00) give shrimp its
The test feed of weight 10%.According to Verdouw et al. (1978), the water sample of collection in one day, and measure total ammonia in water sample
Concentration continues 10 days.As the result is shown in table 9. 
 [table 9] 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 DO mgL -1   
 pH 
 NH 4   + mgL -1   
 
 
 Average value 
 6.85 
 7.10 
 0.102 
 
 
 Maximum value 
 7.21 
 6.78 
 0.154 
 
 
 Minimum value 
 6.39 
 6.48 
 0.035 
 
 
 
 
 
 As shown in table 9 and Fig. 6, interestingly, it is found that from the 7th day, all test groups all started display than control
The low total ammonia density of group, and at the 10th day, all test groups all show low ammonia density more significant than control group. 
 The analysis of 2-7. digestibility 
 2-7-1. indicant (Cr 2 O 3 ) analysis 
 In order to analyze the content of chromium oxide in test feed and powder, the side according to (2002) Divakaran et al. is used
Method. 
 Specifically, test feed and Powder samples are subjected to ashing 4 hours in ashing furnace (550 DEG C), and by acquisition
Sample is for analyzing.Firstly, weighing 5mg in order to which chromium oxide is oxidized to monochrome acid salts and to 10mg Powder samples and shifting
Into teat glass.4mL perchloric acid reagent (HClO4) is added in the teat glass containing sample.By in 100mL distilled water
Middle mixing 200mL nitric acid, mixes 70% perchloric acid of 200mL thereto then to prepare perchloric acid reagent at cooling mixture
(70%).Teat glass containing sample and perchloric acid reagent is placed in heating plate, heats 15 minutes at 300 DEG C, then
It is cooled to room temperature.Pretreated sample is transferred in 50mL glass flask, and quantitative to 25mL with tri-distilled water.Hereafter, it uses
Spectrophotometer (Beckman DU-730) measures absorbance at 350nm.Using such as in sample analysis from pretreated mark
The absorbance of measurement, is used to calculate the chromic oxide content of sample by the standard equation of quasi- solution preparation. 
 The analysis of 2-7-2. dry matter and protein digestibility 
 It calculates dry matter by the following method and tests the protein digestibility of feed: 
 ADC (%)=100-100 × (%Cr in diet of dry matter 2 O 3 %Cr in/excrement 2 O 3 )； 
 ADC (%)=100-100 × (%Cr in diet of protein 2 O 3 %Cr in/excrement 2 O 3 In) × (excrement
% protein/diet in % protein) 
 The result of the digestibility analysis carried out at the end of administering transgenic is shown in table 10. 
 [table 10] 
 
 
 
 Numerical value is the average value of repeating groups and to be expressed as average value ± SD three times.With different upper target numerical value in identical column
It is dramatically different (P < 0.05). 
   1 The apparent digestibility coefficient of dry matter 
   2 The apparent digestibility coefficient of protein 
 As shown in table 10, all test groups all show that higher dry matter digestibility more significant than control group and protein disappear
Rate. 
 Prepare the shrimp feed composition that embodiment 3. includes bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis
Preparation 
 Preparation include bacillus subtilis 1 selected in preparation embodiment 1 (deposit number KCCM11143P, hereinafter by
Referred to as ' BS '), bacillus pumilus (deposit number KCCM11144P, hereinafter referred to as ' BP ') and bacillus licheniformis (
Hereinafter referred to as ' BL ') fodder compound. 
 Specifically, by adding fish oil and water and being mixed, bacillus kind bacterial strain is free of with pellet form preparation
Comparing embodiment 1 composition, contain 10 9 The composition of the comparing embodiment 3 of the BS of × 0.2CFU/g contains 10 10 ×0.2CFU/
The composition of the comparing embodiment 4 of the BS of g contains 10 9 The composition of the embodiment 5 of BS, BP and BL of × 0.2CFU/g, Yi Jihan
10 10 The composition of BS, BP and BL of the embodiment 6 of × 0.2CFU/g.By comparing embodiment 1,3 and 4 and implemented using drier
The fodder compound of example 5 and 6 is about 24 hours dry at 25 DEG C, and stores at -20 DEG C until experiment. 
 [table 11] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Assessment of 3. fodder compound of EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE to the prophylactic effects of AHPND 
 The preparation of 3-1. shrimp 
 Prepare 30 white leg shrimps in each water tank, in total 40 water tanks.All water tanks are equipped with gas stone to remain molten
Oxygen is solved, and in the entire experiment process maintains the water temperature for being used to feed in the range of 28 DEG C to 32 DEG C.Feed is with limited
It gives within mode one day 4 times (the 4% to 12% of fish body weight). 
 3-2. the invasion of vibrio parahaemolytious are tested 
 In order to confirm the antibacterial of the fodder compound including bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis
Activity has carried out primary invasion test, so that shrimp is invaded by vibrio parahaemolytious.In the case where cholerae strain, use 2013
The bacterial strain that the AHPND (EMS) separated from Vietnam is induced is tested.Invasion test carries out as follows: by the feeding of embodiment
Feed composition is fed shrimp 4 weeks, then will there is the shrimp of identical weight (average weight: 2.30g) to be distributed into 4 repetitions, wherein often
96 shrimps of group.Use TSB + Culture medium at 30 DEG C, with 150rpm culture bacterium 24 hours, and by 6.3 × 10 5 CFU/mL concentration
Vibrio parahaemolytious the every case of suspension impregnation.After dipping, the survival rate and its state of moving about of shrimp are confirmed per hour, and small 8
Shi Hou replaces 95% water.Three times a day (in 8:30,13:30 and 18:30), in a limited manner, divided dose is given test and is raised
Expect (the 10% to 12% of fish body weight), and observes 70 hours of dead degree.As a result as shown in table 12 below. 
 [table 12] 
 
 
 
 As shown in Table 12, it in the vibrio parahaemolytious invasion test for shrimp, is provided with including bacillus subtilis, short
The BS+BP+BL group 1 and 2 of the fodder compound of the embodiment 5 and 6 of bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis is shown than control group 1
(fodder compound of comparing embodiment 1 is given to control group 1) and BS group 3 and 4 (give comparing embodiment 3 to BS group 3 and 4
With 4 fodder compound) higher survival rate. 
 Assessment of 4. fodder compound of EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE to WSSV prophylactic effects 
 In order to confirm the disease-resistant of the fodder compound including bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis
Cytotoxic activity carries out invasion test, so that invasion of the shrimp by white spot syndrome virus.In the case where white spot syndrome virus,
The virus separated from the white leg shrimp (Penaeus Vannmei) of infection WSSV is in 2017 from domestic farm (domestic farms)
It obtains and is used to test.Invasion test is following to be carried out: giving the fodder compound of embodiment to shrimp 6 weeks, then will have identical
The shrimp of weight (average weight: 6.25g) is placed in 4 repetitions, wherein every group of 96 shrimps.The inoculum density of virus is 4.1 × 10 5 
A copy/μ L, and use syringe with 100 μ L virus every shrimps of intramuscular inoculation.The final inoculum density of every shrimp be 4.1 ×
10 7 A copy/μ L. 
 After inoculation, the death rate and its travelling state of shrimp are confirmed.Three times a day (in 8:30,13:30 and 18:30), with
Limited manner, divided dose gives test feed (the 10% to 12% of fish body weight), and observes dead degree 125 hours.As a result
It is shown in the following table 13. 
 [table 13] 
 
 
 
 As shown in table 13, it in the invasion test of the white spot syndrome virus for shrimp, is provided with including withered grass gemma
The BS+BP+BL group 1 and 2 of the fodder compound of the embodiment 5 and 6 of bacillus, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis shows ratio
Control group 1 (fodder compound of comparing embodiment 1 is given to control group 1) and BS group 4 (give comparing embodiment 4 to BS group 4
Fodder compound) higher survival rate. 
 Assessment of 5. fodder compound of EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE to the prophylactic action for infecting WSSV and AHPND simultaneously 
 In order to confirm the antibacterial of the fodder compound including bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis
And antiviral activity, invasion test is carried out, so that shrimp is invaded by vibrio parahaemolytious and white spot syndrome virus.In cholerae strain
In the case where, the bacterial strain that the AHPND (EMS) separated using 2013 from Vietnam is induced is tested.In white spot syndrome virus
In the case where, the virus separated from the white leg shrimp (Penaeus Vannmei) of infection WSSV was used in combination in 2017 from domestic farm
In test.Invasion test carries out as follows: giving the fodder compound of embodiment to shrimp 6 weeks, then will have identical heavy
The shrimp of amount (average weight: 4.52g) is placed in 4 repetitions, every group of 96 shrimps.The inoculum density of virus is 8.3 × 10 3 It is a to copy
Shellfish/μ L, and use syringe with 50 μ L virus every shrimps of intramuscular inoculation.The final inoculum density of every shrimp is 4.1 × 10 4 It is a to copy
Shellfish/μ L.Two days after virus inoculation, shrimp is infected cholerae strain. 
 Use TSB + Culture medium at 30 DEG C, with 150rpm culture bacterium 24 hours, and by 1.3 × 10 5 CFU/mL concentration
The every case of the suspension impregnation of vibrio parahaemolytious.After dipping, the death rate and its travelling state of shrimp are confirmed per hour.Three times a day
(in 8:30,13:30 and 18:30), in a limited manner, divided dose give test feed (the 10% to 12% of fish body weight), and
It observes dead degree 7 days.As the result is shown in the following table 14. 
 [table 14] 
 
 
 
 As shown in table 14, it in the invasion test of vibrio parahaemolytious and white spot syndrome virus for shrimp, is provided with
The BS+BP+BL of the fodder compound of embodiment 5 and 6 including bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and bacillus licheniformis
1 and 2 display of group (is given than control group 1 (giving the fodder compound of comparing embodiment 1 to control group 1) and BS group 4 to BS group 4
The fodder compound of comparing embodiment 4) higher survival rate. 
 Based on the above embodiment, according to the disclosure including bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus and lichens gemma bar
The growth of white leg shrimp, feed efficiency, digestibility, the quality and nospecific immunity for cultivating water can be improved in the fodder compound of bacterium
Power.Additionally, it is contemplated that the disclosure is able to produce the white leg shrimp of high protein, so as to improve the merchantability of shrimp. 
 Deposit number 
 Preservation mechanism: Korean Culture Center (International Depository Authority (International Depositary
Authority)) 
 Deposit number: KCCM11143P 
 Preservation date: 20101214 
 Deposit number: KCCM11144P 
 Preservation date: 20101214 
 Deposit number: KCCM11270P 
 Preservation date: 20120322 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
