
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Anti-inflammatory composition comprising plant extract compound and for treating diseases associated with inflammation
Composition 
 
 Technical field 
 The present invention relates to the anti-inflammatory composition comprising extracted form natural plant compound, more particularly, to comprising purple perilla and
The anti-inflammatory composition of Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract and pharmaceutical composition for treating diseases associated with inflammation. 
 
 
 Background technique 
 Inflammation is by tissue damage or to destroy caused topical protective reaction, and effect is to destroy, weaken or shield institute
There are the substance and damaged tissues for causing damage.Inflammation is characterized in that capillary is perforated, blood constituent leaks into interstitial space, white
Tissue of the cell migration to inflammation.In terms of macroscopic view, it is generally entailed such as erythema, edema, the clinical conditions such as hyperalgia and pain
Shape. 
 As defined above, inflammatory reaction is a certain specific reaction occurred due to inflammation.Many institute's weeks in the field of medicine
Know, inflammatory reaction causes relevant many uncomfortable to various disease and damage, such as pain and function lose.Cause
This, giving medicament uncomfortable caused by reducing inflammatory reaction is advisable, and the substance with the property effect is classified as
Anti-inflammatory agent.Anti-inflammatory agent is for treating a variety of diseases, and identical drug usually can also be used for treating different diseases. 
 As anti-inflammatory substance, natural and synthesis corticosteroid formulations can generate many side effects, including blood pressure increase,
Salt and water stagnation, compromised kidneys, potassium and calcium secretion increase.In addition, having developed non-class for the side effect for overcoming steroid substance
Steroid anti-inflammatory effect substance (NSAID).Wherein, most popular is salicylate, and acetylsalicylic acid or aspirin are
Most widely used analgesia, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory substance, disclose in South Korea patent application No.2008-7027164 etc..However,
When a large amount of administration, it may appear that various side effects, such as be short of breath, circulatory failure, epigastric pain, vomiting, stomach and intestine are said
Blood, hepatic injury, blood platelet inhibition etc.. 
 Although the anti-inflammatory substance of many types has also been employed that, but still needs not having side effect and have excellent anti-inflammatory
The substance of effect. 
 Therefore, when developing with excellent anti-inflammatory activity and when natural anti-inflammatory agents safe to the human body, it is contemplated that can be
Related fields is effectively applied. 
 
 
 Summary of the invention 
 It is an aspect of the invention to provide include that anti-inflammatory activity is excellent and be safe plant extract compound to human body
Anti-inflammatory composition. 
 Another aspect of the present invention is to provide excellent including anti-inflammatory activity and is safe plant extract compound to human body
Anti-inflammatory composition preparation method. 
 Another aspect of the present invention is to provide excellent comprising anti-inflammatory activity and is safe plant extract compound to human body
For treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation. 
 According to an aspect of the present invention, providing a kind of includes being mentioned by the plant that extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract are constituted
Take the anti-inflammatory composition of compound. 
 According to another aspect of the present invention, a kind of preparation method of anti-inflammatory composition is provided, including is obtained respectively comprising purple
The step of plant extracts of Soviet Union's extract and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract；And it is prepared by the plant extracts of each acquisition of mixing
The step of extracting compound. 
 According to another aspect of the present invention, providing a kind of includes being mentioned by the plant that extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract are constituted
Take the anti-inflammatory composition for being used to treat diseases associated with inflammation of compound. 
 Beneficial effect 
 Anti-inflammatory composition according to the present invention and pharmaceutical compositions use for treating diseases associated with inflammation are from different common perilla alkene
The extraction compound that the mixture of the extract obtained in ketone (isoegomaketone) content excellent purple perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae is constituted,
It is therefore expected that can be in many necks such as the treatment of inflammation, prevention and improvement and cosmetics, health food, pharmaceuticals, daily necessity
Domain is utilized effectively for the purpose of anti-inflammatory. 
 
 
 Detailed description of the invention 
 Fig. 1 is the cultivating process schematic diagram for the purple perilla Antisperill that can be used in the present invention. 
 Fig. 2 shows super critical extraction process, it is shown that the relationship of pressure change and time. 
 Fig. 3 shows the toxic degree measurement result for extracting compound. 
 Fig. 4 is shown the measurement result (a) of the NO amount generated when handling cell with every kind of alcoholic extract and is mentioned with Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae
The NO measurements (b) for taking each supercritical extract of object and extractive of perilla to generate when handling cell are white for evaluating
Art extract and the respective antiphlogistic effects of extractive of perilla. 
 Fig. 5 shows the NO measurements generated when handling cell with the extraction compound of embodiment, is implemented with evaluating
The antiphlogistic effects of the extraction compound of example. 
 Fig. 6, which shows to take orally alcoholic extraction compound (a) and means of supercritical extraction compound (b) of the invention, gives joint
Hind leg variation after scorching mouse model. 
 Fig. 7 A to 7C respectively illustrates the oral embodiment for giving arthritis mouse model 25mg/kg to 100mg/kg dosage
Confirm after 1 extraction compound to the variation (a) of arthritis numerical value in the 6th day, the thickness change (b) of hind leg edema, Yi Jihou
The volume change (c) of limb edema. 
 Fig. 8 A to 8C respectively illustrates the oral reality for giving arthritis mouse model 66.5mg/kg to 133.0mg/kg dosage
Apply example 6 extract confirmation after compound to the variation (a) of the 7th day arthritis numerical value, hind leg edema thickness change (b), with
And the volume change (c) of hind leg edema. 
 
 
 Specific embodiment 
 Hereinafter, the preferred embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to the drawings.However, it is possible to which the embodiment of the present invention is repaired
Various other forms are changed to, and the scope of the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described below. 
 According to the present invention, a kind of anti-inflammatory composition is provided, is mentioned comprising the plant containing extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract
Take compound.Moreover, according to the present invention, if it is desired, may further include siberian Ginseng P.E. 
 In the present invention, the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae (Atractylodes japonica Koidz) uses rhizome.Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae has enhancing
Spleen and refresh oneself, excludes moisture promote urine smoothness, hidroschesis, stabilization pregnant woman's nausea the effect of.In addition, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae can be used for treating spleen
The symptom, edema, ephidrosis of dizziness, pregnant woman's movement of the foetus are unstable when void, loss of appetite, diarrhea, phlegm or asthma cause to absorb food
Etc. symptoms. 
 Wilsonii (Acanthopanaxsenticosus) and ginseng belong to Araliaceae, are broad leaved and deciduous broad leaved shrub, can
To use bark prepared plant extracts.Wild ginseng, therefore also referred to as Siberia wild ginseng are similar to because wilsonii tree is outer
(Siberian Ginseng).Wilsonii the tree acanthoside and plurality of active ingredients excellent containing a large amount of bioactivity, because
This is used to treat neuralgia, hypertension, neurasthenia, diabetes, and can be used as invigorant etc.. 
 In addition, purple perilla (Perilla frutescens BRITT. purple perilla；Perilla leaf) it is that Labiatae (Labiatae) is annual
Leaf prepared plant extracts can be used in herbaceous plant, is used for sweating, antibechic, stomach invigorating, diuresis, calmness and analgesia, and right
Also there is therapeutic effect in dizzy disease, physical distress and nasal obstruction and nasal mucus. 
 The extractive of perilla used in the present invention contains isoegomaketone (IK, isoegomaketone) or its salt is made
For active constituent, the extractive of perilla being especially used in the present invention, every 1g extract contains the different common perilla of 10mg to 30mg
Ketenes (IK, isoegomaketone), isoegomaketone concentration are preferably 100mg/mL to 300mg/mL. 
 In the present invention, isoegomaketone (IK, isoegomaketone) content in every 1g extractive of perilla is less than 10mg
Or isoegomaketone concentration less than 100mg/mL when, targeting inflammatory effect may be insufficient, and when in every 1g extractive of perilla
Isoegomaketone (IK, isoegomaketone) content when being more than that 30mg or IK isoegomaketone concentration is more than 300mg/mL,
Toxicity tends to increase. 
 The increased purple perilla of isoegomaketone content can be obtained by the ray in irradiation such as 50 to 500 ranges, excellent
Choosing can be by the gamma-rays of irradiation 150 to 250Gy, and the gamma-rays for more preferably irradiating about 200Gy obtains. 
 Fig. 1 is the exemplary cultivating process of Antisperill.More specifically, on purple perilla seed after useful to irradiation of rays,
It is excellent that in M1 generation, picks out fertility, is cultivated to M3 generation, and whether confirmation character fixes, finally to 150 plants of progress strains at
Reason can be evaluated by physiological activity and select the excellent CJ-29A of antiphlogistic effects.At this point, selection course can be based on outstanding breeding. 
 Thus obtained Antisperill was preserved in South Korea Biological Resource Center (Korean on August 17th, 2016
Collection for Type Cultures, KCTK), and obtain deposit number KCTC 13077BP. 
 In the present specification, the increased purple perilla of isoegomaketone content preferably obtains deposit number KCTC 13077BP's
Antisperill。 
 In addition, the extraction compound of the invention refers to the plant extracts such as independently prepared extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract
After object, the compound that mixes. 
 In addition, in the present invention, the extractive of perilla, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract, siberian Ginseng P.E can be molten with ethyl alcohol respectively
Agent is extracted, it is highly preferred that the alcohol solvent concentration is 60% or more, it is further preferable that the alcohol solvent concentration is
100%.Using ethonal extraction, as shown in figure 4, can get significant improved antiphlogistic effects. 
 At this point, the extractive of perilla, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract and wilsonii of the plant extract compound preferably 1 parts by weight extract
Any extract and 1 parts by weight in object to 2 parts by weight other two kinds of extracts mixture.It is further preferable that the plant
Object is extracted compound and is mixed by extractive of perilla, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract and siberian Ginseng P.E with the weight ratio of 1:1:1.Purple perilla
When extract, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract and siberian Ginseng P.E are mixed with the weight ratio of 1:1:1, as shown in figure 3, being mixed with other
Than comparing, toxicity can be significantly reduced. 
 In addition, the extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract are preferably the extract obtained respectively with means of supercritical extraction, lead to
Cross supercritical extraction method from purple perilla extract extract when, compared with the alcoholic extraction for using ethyl alcohol, isoegomaketone content increase
Add as 7 times or so；It is white compared with the alcoholic extraction for using ethyl alcohol when extracting extract from Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae by supercritical extraction method
Art lactone content dramatically increases. 
 According to the present invention, the preparation method of the anti-inflammatory composition comprising the plant extract compound by following step into
Row: the step of including the plant extracts of extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract is obtained respectively；The plant extract that will be obtained respectively
Object mixing extracts the progress of compound the step of to prepare. 
 The step of obtaining the plant extracts respectively can crush freeze-drying plant by including the steps that each plant of freeze-drying
The step of, and the step of freeze-drying plant is independently suspended in alcohol solvent and is extracted carry out.At this point, plant extracts can
It further comprise siberian Ginseng P.E. 
 At this point, to remove pollutant, further including rinsing purple perilla, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, wilsonii etc. respectively before executing the step of freeze drying
Stage, the step of freeze drying can respectively rinse purple perilla, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, wilsonii the step of after subsequent progress. 
 In the present invention, step of freeze drying can carry out under the normal condition of this field, and step of freeze drying be it is preferred,
Because it is with excellent drying efficiency and no residual solvent. 
 The extraction step crushes the plant of freeze-drying preferably to carry out.When the plant of the freeze-drying is pulverized, advantage is that do not have
There is remaining solvent, and quantitative measurment later is easy. 
 In addition, the step of obtaining plant extracts respectively can be carried out by each plant of means of supercritical extraction, at this point it is possible to
Obtain the anti-inflammatory composition with improved antiphlogistic effects. 
 On the other hand, the present invention provides a kind of for treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation, and it includes contain purple perilla
The plant extract compound of extract and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract. 
 The plant extract complex may include the alcoholic extract of each plant, at this point, the plant extract compound
It can further comprise siberian Ginseng P.E.On the other hand, the plant extract compound may include that the overcritical of each plant mentions
Object is taken, at this point it is possible to obtain the pharmaceutical compositions with significant increased antiphlogistic effects for treating diseases associated with inflammation. 
 According to the present invention, the diseases associated with inflammation be selected from by asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), allergic rhinitis,
The group of dermatitis, arthritis, allergy and inflammatory bowel disease composition, the especially described arthritis is rheumatoid arthritis. 
 Further, the pharmaceutical compositions also may include pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 
 Pharmaceutical compositions for treating diseases associated with inflammation of the invention can be according to each using purpose, conventionally
The oral preparations such as various forms, such as powder, particle, tablet, capsule, suspension, lotion, syrup, aerosol are configured to, it can be with
The diversified forms such as sterile injection solvent version form preparation and use, orally available or intravenous, intraperitoneal, subcutaneous, straight by injecting
The number of ways administration such as intestines or part. 
 It may include suitable carrier, excipient and the diluent in such pharmaceutical compositions for treating diseases associated with inflammation
Example include lactose, dextrose, sucrose, D-sorbite, mannitol, xylitol, antierythrite, maltitol, starch, I
Primary glue, alginate, gelatin, calcium phosphate, calcium silicates, cellulose, methylcellulose, amorphous cellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidine
Ketone, water, methyl hydroxybenzoate, nipasol, talcum, magnesium stearate and mineral oil etc.. 
 In addition, the pharmaceutical compositions for treating diseases associated with inflammation may also include filler, anticoagulant, lubrication
Agent, wetting agent, flavoring agent, emulsifier, preservative etc.. 
 Solid form for oral administration includes tablet, pill, pulvis, granule, capsule etc., these solid formulations
It can be by mixing at least one excipient such as starch, calcium carbonate, sugarcane in the pharmaceutical compositions for treating diseases associated with inflammation
Sugar, lactose, gelatin etc. are prepared.Other than simple excipient, such as magnesium stearate and talcum lubricant can also be used. 
 Oral liquid formulations include suspension, solution, lotion, syrup etc., in addition to common simple diluent water and liquid stone
Except wax, it may also include the various excipient such as wetting agent, sweetener, aromatic, preservative and antistaling agent. 
 Non-oral formulation includes aseptic aqueous solution, nonaqueous solvents, suspension, lotion, freeze-drying formation and suppository.It is non-aqueous
Agent and suspension may include the vegetable oil such as propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, olive oil, such as ethyl acetate injectable esters.With
It may include that the routine such as solubilizer, isotonic agent, suspending agent, emulsifier, stabilizer and preservative adds in the basic material of injection
Add agent. 
 It, can be by inhibiting and improving the progress of inflammation in diseases associated with inflammation by applying composition of the invention to patient
Diseases associated with inflammation is prevented and treated with deteriorating.Pharmaceutical compositions for treating diseases associated with inflammation of the invention are effective with pharmacy
Amount application. 
 Composition of the invention can be used as individual therapeutic agent application or apply with combination with other therapeutic agents, control with existing
Treating agent can serially or simultaneously apply, and can be administered alone or a variety of applications.It is important to consider that all above-mentioned factors exist
The amount of application of maximum efficiency is obtained in the case where being free from side effects with minimum, those skilled in the art can readily determine that this
A bit. 
 Specifically, the medicine effective quantity of compound according to the present invention can according to the age of patient, gender and weight and
Variation, and usually every kg weight 1mg to 50mg, preferably daily or every two days 1mg are to 10mg or 1 time a day to 3 times points
Dosage administration. 
 However, dosage does not limit the scope of the invention in any way, because dosage can be according to administration route, disease
Severity, gender, weight, age etc. and change. 
 Hereinafter, the present invention will be more specifically described with reference to specific embodiment.Following embodiment is only for being easier
Understand example of the invention, and the scope of the present invention is not limited thereto. 
 
 
 Embodiment 
 The preparation of the increased purple perilla of isoegomaketone 1. (IK) content 
 Isoegomaketone (IK, isoegomaketone) content of every 1g extractive of perilla in extractive of perilla of the invention
For 10mg or more, obtained from the purple perilla that IK concentration is 100mg/mL or more.The purple perilla for possessing so high IK content passes through
Breed of variety process in detail below obtains. 
 Nineteen ninety-five irradiates the gamma-rays of 200Gy on purple perilla seed, has collected 2000 seeds.Sowing was cultivated from M1 generation
The seed collected in 2000 plants gives family name for 150 plants of strainization in M3 generation.M9 is based on for superior growth in order to test
150 plants of homogeneity and stability of selection cultivates 30 plants of 1 group, selects 6 strains with excellent economical character, passes through
6 strain ingredients for analyzing selection have selected the increasing of antiphlogistic effects excellent isoegomaketone (IK, isoegomaketone) content
The CJ-29A strain added.At this point, substantially selection grows excellent strain, and anti-inflammatory physiology is measured using selected strain and is lived
Property, as a result, it has been found that CJ-29A strain shows most highly active, and metabolic analysis confirmation isoegomaketone increases.Later, CJ-
29A strain is named as " Antisperill ", and at the advanced radioactive ray research institute breeding experiment center of Atomic Energy Research Institute, South Korea
Quantity test and Regional suitability test are carried out.Fig. 1 is the diagram of " Antisperill " incubation. 
 Thus obtained Antisperill was preserved in South Korea Biological Resource Center (Korean on August 17th, 2016
Collection for Type Cultures, KCTC), and obtain deposit number KCTC 13077BP. 
 2. extracting the preparation of compound 
 Preparation example 1 
 (1) preparation of purple perilla alcoholic extract 
 The perilla leaf obtained in above-mentioned 1. part is dried and crushed at about 45 DEG C, using extraction element (name of product:
SI-600R, manufacturer: JeioTech) by the 10g purple perilla powder sample of preparation and 100mL fermentation alcohol (100% ethyl alcohol) 45
DEG C and 100rpm under 6 hours of stirring extract. 
 Filter thus obtained extract with filter paper (filter paper), using rotatory vacuum inspissator (name of product:
N-1100, manufacturer: EYELA) concentration, then using efficient centrifugal inspissator (name of product: HT-4X, manufacturer:
GeneVac all solvents are removed) to obtain extractive of perilla. 
 (2) preparation of Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract and/or Wilsonii wine essence extract 
 Wilsonii and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae sample are dried and crushed at about 45 DEG C, respectively by 10g powder and 100mL fermentation alcohol
(100% ethyl alcohol) 6 hours (name of product: SI-600R, manufacturer: JeioTech) of stirring under 60 DEG C and 100rpm are extracted. 
 It uses filter paper (filter paper) to filter respectively the siberian Ginseng P.E of acquisition and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract, uses rotation
Vacuum concentrator (name of product: N-1100, manufacturer: EYELA) concentration, then using efficient centrifugal inspissator (name of product:
HT-4X, manufacturer: GeneVac) all solvents are removed to obtain siberian Ginseng P.E and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract respectively. 
 Preparation example 2 
 In addition to using 70% ethyl alcohol as solvent extracting purple perilla, wilsonii and when Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, remaining by with 1 phase of preparation example
Same technique is extracted purple perilla, wilsonii and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract respectively. 
 Preparation example 3 
 (1) preparation of purple perilla supercritical extract 
 It collects the Antisperill perilla leaf obtained in above-mentioned 1. part and is put into drier, dry 24 is small at 50 DEG C
When after crush be made it is powdered.Using supercritical fluid extraction device (supercritical fluid extraction,
ILSHIN AUTOCLAVE, ISA-SEFE-0500-0700-080) by manufactured 200g purple perilla powder according to the specific of following table 1
Extraction conditions extract. 
 [table 1] 
 
 
 
 Extraction process as shown in Fig. 2, by isobaric 10 minutes, purging 10 minutes, pressurization 10 minutes, under 400 bar pressures
It persistently extracts 180 minutes, depressurizes 20 minutes carried out according to Fig. 2 later.After removing water in the supercritical extract obtained, obtain
Final extract. 
 (2) preparation of Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract 
 It buys dry food Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae and is pulverized into powder, use supercritical fluid extraction device
(supercritical fluid extraction, ILSHIN AUTOCLAVE, ISA-SEFE-0500-0700-080) will
200g Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae powder is extracted according to condition identical with above-mentioned (1).After removing water in the supercritical extract obtained, obtain most
Whole extract. 
 Compare preparation example 1 
 In addition to using water as solvent when extracting purple perilla, wilsonii and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, remaining passes through work identical with preparation example 1
Skill is extracted purple perilla, wilsonii and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract respectively. 
 (3) preparation of compound is extracted 
 
 
 Embodiment 1 
 By the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, Antisperill and siberian Ginseng P.E that will be obtained respectively in preparation example 1 with the weight of 1:1:1
Than mixing, extraction compound of the invention is prepared. 
 
 
 Embodiment 2 
 By the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, Antisperill and siberian Ginseng P.E that will be obtained respectively in preparation example 1 with the weight of 2:1:1
Than mixing, extraction compound of the invention is prepared. 
 
 
 Embodiment 3 
 By the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, Antisperill and siberian Ginseng P.E that will be obtained respectively in preparation example 1 with the weight of 1:2:1
Than mixing, extraction compound of the invention is prepared. 
 
 
 Embodiment 4 
 By the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, Antisperill and siberian Ginseng P.E that will be obtained respectively in preparation example 1 with the weight of 2:2:1
Than mixing, extraction compound of the invention is prepared. 
 
 
 Embodiment 5 
 By the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae, Antisperill and siberian Ginseng P.E that will be obtained respectively in preparation example 1 with the weight of 1:1:2
Than mixing, extraction compound of the invention is prepared. 
 
 
 Embodiment 6 
 It is mixed by the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae and Antisperill extract that will be obtained respectively in preparation example 3 with the weight ratio of 1:1, system
Standby extraction compound of the invention. 
 3. the quantitative analysis of isoegomaketone in extractive of perilla 
 To analyze the different common perilla alkene in extractive of perilla and common extractive of perilla obtained in (1) of above-mentioned preparation example 1
Ketone (isoegomaketone) has used HPLC (Agilent Technologies).Operation item for the quantitative analysis
Part such as the following table 2. 
 [table 2] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Isoegomaketone in extractive of perilla and common extractive of perilla obtained in (1) of above-mentioned preparation example 1
(isoegomaketone) result such as the following table 3 is analyzed. 
 [table 3] 
 
 
 
 From in table 3 it has been confirmed that IK in the purple perilla obtained in (1) of preparation example 1, in every 1g extractive of perilla
(isoegomaketone) content is 10mg or more, and concentration is 100mg/mL or more, compared with common wild purple perilla, different common perilla
It is 40 times or so that ketenes (IK, isoegomaketone) content, which at most increases,. 
 4. according to effective component quantitative analysis in the extract of extracting mode 
 (1) extractive of perilla 
 1ml methanol is added in the purple perilla supercritical extract 1mg obtained in (1) of above-mentioned preparation example 3, and passes through 0.45
The filtering of μm filter, is analyzed, the operating condition for the quantitative analysis is such as using HPLC (Agilent Technologies)
The following table 4. 
 [table 4] 
 
 
 
 As a result, when obtaining extract by supercritical extraction method from purple perilla, as shown in table 5 below, it has been confirmed that with general
Logical alcoholic extraction is compared, and the content increase of isoegomaketone is about 7 times. 
 [table 5] 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Alcoholic extraction (preparation example 1) 
 Means of supercritical extraction (preparation example 3) 
 
 
 The content of isoegomaketone in purple perilla 
 9-10mg/g 
 75-76mg/g 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract 
 It, can be true when obtaining extract in the Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae obtained in (2) of above-mentioned preparation example 3 by supercritical extraction method
Recognize, compared with conventional alcohol extract, as shown in table 6 below, atractylodes lactone content increase is about 2 times. 
 [table 6] 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Alcoholic extraction (preparation example 1) 
 Means of supercritical extraction (preparation example 3) 
 
 
 The atractylodes lactone content of Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae 
 3-4mg/g 
 8.2-8.5mg/g 
 
 
 
 
 
 5. extracting the cytotoxicity experiment of compound 
 Mouse inflammatory cell RAW264.7 cell is put into 96 holes (well) tissue culture plate, with 2.0 × 10 5 Cell/ml is dense
Degree, at 37 DEG C, 5%CO 2 It is cultivated 24 hours in environment.Then, with the every kind of extraction compound obtained from embodiment 1 to 5 with
The concentration of 50 μ g/ml is handled.Further after culture 24 hours, covered by using EZ-Cytox (Daeillab Service company)
Box measures cytotoxicity degree. 
 The measurement result of the toxic degree of every kind of extraction compound is shown in Fig. 3.As shown in figure 3, with untreated right
It is compared according to area, the extraction compound of mixing Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract, extractive of perilla and siberian Ginseng P.E is shown acceptable respectively
Toxic degree, it is particularly possible to confirm, compared with other blending ratios, with identical weight ratio mixing embodiment 1 extraction
Object compound, toxicity significant low 10% or more. 
 6. antiphlogistic effects are evaluated 
 (1) the antiphlogistic effects evaluation of every kind of extract 
 Whether generate a kind of nitric oxide (NO, nitric oxide) of one of inflammatory reaction mark by measuring and assess
Antiphlogistic effects.Mouse inflammatory cell RAW264.7 cell is placed in 96 porocyte culture plates, with 2.0 × 10 5 Cell/ml concentration,
At 37 DEG C, 5%CO 2 It is cultivated in environment 24 hours, then extracts compound with every kind and handled with the concentration of 50 μ g/ml.It is laggard
After one step culture 2 hours, is further cultivated 18 hours after carrying out the processing of 1 μ g/m concentration with LPS, use Griess reagent later
(Griess reagent) measurement generates the amount of NO. 
 At this point, to Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract, extractive of perilla and thorn obtained in preparation example 1, preparation example 2 and comparison preparation example 1
Every kind of extract of slender acanthopanax extract carries out above-mentioned experiment, and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract to preparation example 3 and extractive of perilla is every
Kind extract has carried out above-mentioned experiment. 
 It is shown in Figure 4 with the measurement result of the NO amount generated when each extract-treated.As shown in fig. 4 a, with comparison preparation example
It uses in 1 and is compared the case where water, in the case where using the alcohol solvent in such as preparation example 1 and 2, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract, purple perilla are mentioned
Take object and siberian Ginseng P.E that can obtain significant antiphlogistic effects.Further, it is also possible to confirm, and the 70% of preparation example 2 is used
Ethyl alcohol is compared as solvent, when using 100% ethyl alcohol of preparation example 1 as solvent, can obtain more effective antiphlogistic effects. 
 Further, as shown in Figure 4 b, it has been confirmed that when obtaining extract by means of supercritical extraction as preparation example 3
When, more significant antiphlogistic effects can be obtained. 
 At this point, as shown in figure 4, negative control area is using with 264.7 cell of RAW of any extract-treated, the positive is not right
264.7 cell of RAW handled with LPS has then been used according to area. 
 (2) the antiphlogistic effects evaluation of composite extract 
 The nitric oxide (NO, nitric oxide) for whether generating one of inflammatory reaction mark by measurement is anti-inflammatory to assess
Effect.Mouse inflammatory cell RAW264.7 cell is placed in 96 holes (well) tissue culture plate, with 2.0 × 10 5 Cell/ml is dense
Degree, at 37 DEG C, 5%CO 2 Cultivate 24 hours in environment, then with the extraction compound of embodiment 1 with the concentration of 50 μ g/ml at
Reason.After cultivating 2 hours later, further cultivates 18 hours after carrying out the processing of 1 μ g/m concentration with LPS, tried later using Ge Lisi
Agent (Griess reagent) measurement generates the amount of NO. 
 
 
 The extraction compound NO of embodiment 1 generates measurements as shown in figure 5, it has been confirmed that mixing Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae from Fig. 5
The extraction compound of the invention of extract, extractive of perilla and siberian Ginseng P.E with not with extraction compound of the invention at
The check plot of reason is compared, and antiphlogistic effects are more significant.At this point, it has been confirmed that negative control area use is not mentioned with any from Fig. 4
264.7 cell of RAW for taking object to handle, positive control area have then used 264.7 cell of RAW handled with LPS.With of the invention real
When applying the extract-treated of example 1, it can confirm whether antiphlogistic effects are reduced than positive control area. 
 7. for arthritic effect assessment 
 (1) production of arthritis animal model 
 For the antiphlogistic effects for verifying extraction compound of the invention in animal model, arthritis animal model has been made. 
 At this point, the arthritis animal model by by ArthritoMab antibody cocktail (antibody cocktail,
Mabioscience company) with IP injection 2mg to Balb/c mouse, and 50ug is injected with intraperitoneal injection (IP) after 3 days
LPS makes. 
 (2) for the evaluation of arthritis animal model effect 
 Using the mouse model obtained in above-mentioned (1), since to the mouse injection LPS same day, daily extremely with 25mg/kg
The extraction compound of the embodiment of the present invention 1 and embodiment 6 is administered orally in the dosage of 100mg/kg, measures the thickness of joint part
And volume. 
 Fig. 6 a, which shows to work as, is administered orally mentioning for the embodiment of the present invention 1 with the dosage of daily 25mg/kg to 100mg/kg
When taking compound, in the hind leg variation of the practical arthritis mouse model of confirmation in the 7th day. 
 As shown in fig. 6, it has been confirmed that arthritic therapeutic effect increases with the dosage of extraction compound of the invention,
And visual effects are obtained after 7 days. 
 On the other hand, Fig. 6 b is shown will mix the embodiment 6 of purple perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae supercritical extract with the ratio of 1:1
It extracts compound to be administered orally respectively with the concentration of 66.5 and 133.0mg/Kg daily, and in the thickness of the 6th day measurement joint part
The degree of degree and volume. 
 As shown in Figure 6 b, it can be confirmed that the arthritis treatment effect for extracting compound is improved as dosage increases, into one
Step ground, in alcoholic extraction compound, mitigating arthritic effect is to rely on concentration, but effect is multiple less than means of supercritical extraction
Close object. 
 On the other hand, Fig. 7 a to 7c respectively illustrate to arthritis mouse model oral administration dosage be 25mg/kg extremely
After the extraction compound of the embodiment of the present invention 1 of 100mg/kg, the arthritis numerical value change a of confirmation in the 6th day, hind leg edema are thick
Degree variation b and hind leg edema volume change c. 
 It has been confirmed that arthritis treatment effect increases with the dosage of extraction compound of the invention from Fig. 7. 
 Further, Fig. 8 a to 8c respectively illustrates the dosage with 66.5mg/kg and 133.0mg/kg to arthritic mice
Model (CAIA) be administered orally the embodiment of the present invention 6 extraction compound when, the 7th day confirmation arthritis numerical value change a, after
Limb edema thickness change b and hind leg edema volume change c. 
 According to Fig. 8 it has been confirmed that when using extraction compound of the invention, obtained especially with by means of supercritical extraction
Composite extract when, arthritic therapeutic effect can dramatically increase. 
 The embodiment of the present invention is described in detail although having been described above, interest field of the invention is unlimited
In this, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that not departing from the technology of the invention recorded by claim
In the range of thought, numerous modifications and variations can be carried out. 
 Deposit support mechanism: Korea Institute of Bioengineering 
 Deposit number: KCTC13077BP 
 Preservation date: 2016817 
 Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure 
 International table 
 The former deposit receipt saved issued by the International Depository Authority that this page of lower end is pointed out 
 According to the 7.1st section of regulation 
 Addressee: KIM, Jin-Baek 
 Atomic Energy Research Institute, South Korea 
 (56212) city the Republic of Korea's North Cholla Jing Yi road Jin Qiu 29 
 
 
 
 Page totally 1 of format BP/4 (KCTC format 17) 
 Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure 
 International table 
 The former deposit receipt saved issued by the International Depository Authority that this page of lower end is pointed out 
 According to the 7.1st section of regulation 
 Addressee: KIM, Jin-Baek 
 Atomic Energy Research Institute, South Korea 
 (56212) city the Republic of Korea's North Cholla Jing Yi road Jin Qiu 29 
 
 
 
 Page totally 1 of format BP/4 (KCTC format 17). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
