
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
 
   
    
    [0001]
     
 
       Figure 1. Solvent exposure of sidechains of framework
residues in KOL and J539 Fvs and the residues which occur
most frequently at these positions in the various human VH
subgroups. 
 Figure 2. Solvent exposure of sidechains of framework
residues in KOL VL and the residues which occur most
frequently at these positions in the various human V-lambda
subgroups. 
 Figure 3. Solvent exposure of sidechains of framework
residues in J539 VL and the residues which occur most
frequently at these positions in the various human V-kappa
subgroups. 
     
     
    
    [0002]
     Figure 4. Primers used to isolate DNA encoding murine
kappa light chain variable region and murine IgG2a heavy
chain variable region using PCR. Oligodeoxynucleotides used
as PCR primers to generate a shortened IgG4 heavy chain.
Oligodeoxynucleotides used in PCR to re-engineer the
thymidine kinase (TK) promoter to facilitate the expression of
the neomycin resistance gene. Oligodeoxynucleotide primers
used in PCR to clone the IgH enhancer sequence.
Oligodeoxynucleotides used as PCR primers to generate a
human kappa light chain constant region. 
     
    
    [0003]
     Figure 5. Oligodeoxynucleotides used in the
construction of the "veneered" 1B4 heavy and light chain
variable regions plus those necessary to fuse the human signal
and intronic sequenceds onto these variable regions. 
     
    
    [0004]
     Figure 6. PCR-recombination strategy used in the
veneering of the 1B4 kappa light chain variable region. 
     
    
    [0005]
     Figure 7. Outline of the insertion of the "veneered"
kappa light chain variable region and kappa constant region
into the light chain expression vector. 
     
    
    [0006]
     Figure 8. PCR-recombination strategy used in the
veneering of the 1B4 heavy chain variable region. 
     
    
    [0007]
     Figure 9. Outline of the insertion of the "veneered"
heavy chain variable region into the heavy chain expression
vector. 
     
    
    [0008]
     Figure 10. Outline of the construction of neomycin
selectable expression vector.  
     
    
    [0009]
     Figure 11. Outline of the construction of the hygromycin
selectable expression vector. 
     
    
    [0010]
     Figure 12. Amino acid sequence completion of the
"veneered"-1B4, murine 1B4 and human Gal heavy chain
variable regions and the "veneered" 1B4, murine 1B4 and
human Len kappa light chain variable regions. Check marks
indicate the individual amino acid residues converted. 
     
    
    [0011]
     Figure 13. Competitive binding assay of native murine
1B4 (open diamonds) and recombinant "veneered" 1B4 (closed
diamonds). 
   
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0012]
     The identification and production of murine monoclonal
antibodies has lead to numerous therapeutic applications of
these exquisitely specific molecules in human disease. The
technologies of molecular biology have further expanded the
utility of many antibodies by allowing for the creation of class
switched molecules whose functionality has been improved by
the acquisition or loss of complement fixation. The size of the
bioactive molecule may also be reduced so as to increase the
tissue target availability of the antibody by either changing the
class from an IgM to an IgG, removing most of the heavy chain
constant region in the creation of a F(ab) 2  or both heavy and
light chain constant regions may be dispensed with in the
formation of a Fv antibody. Common to all of these potentially
therapeutic forms of antibody are the requisite CDRs
(complementary determining regions) which guide the
molecule to its ligand and the framework residues (FRs) which 
support these latter structures and dictate the disposition of the
CDRs relative to one another, Winter European Patent
Application, Publication No. 239,400; Riechmann et al., Nature
332: 323-327 (1988). Crystallographic analyses of numerous
antibody structures reveal that the combining site is composed
almost entirely of the CDR residues arranged in a limited
number of loop motifs, Padlan and Sheriff, 1990. The necessity
of the CDRs to form these structures combined with the
appreciated hypervariablity of their primary sequence leads to a
great diversity in the antigen combining site, but one which has
a finite number of possibilities. Thus, hypermutability and a
limited primary sequence repetoire for each CDR would
suggest that the CDRs derived for a given antigen from one
species of animal would be the same derived from another
species. Hence, they should be poorly immunogenic, if at all,
when presented to a recipient organism in a non-foreign
context. 
     
    
    [0013]
     Monoclonal antibody producing hybridomas have been
most readily obtained from immunized rodents. Development
of similar reagents from human sources has been frustrated by
the current inability to maintain long term cultures of cells
which produce sufficient quantities of antibody. Additional
problems arise from the regulatory standpoint when cells of
human origin are employed for the production of agents to be
used in man. These considerations have lead to the widespread
use of rodent monoclonal antibodies for the imaging and
treatment of malignancy, prophylactic administration to
guard against toxic shock, modification of graft rejection
episodes, and to temper acute inflammatory reactions. In all
scenarios where completely rodent or partially rodent (ie, rodent
- human chimeras) antibodies have been used for therapy the
recipients have often elicited an immune response directed 
toward the antibody. These reactions have limited the duration
and effectiveness of the therapy. 
     
    
    [0014]
     Various attempts have been made to minimize or
eliminate the immunogenicity of non-human antibodies while
perserving their antigen- binding properties. Initially,
chimeric antibodies were constructed containing the rodent
varible regions and their associated CDRs fused to human
constant domains. The following references generally describe
chimaeric antibody technology: Lobuglio et al., Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA  86 : 4220-4224 (1989); United States Patent
4,816,567; PCT International Publication No. WO 87/02671,
published May 7,1987; European Patent Publication No. 255,694,
published February 10 1988; European Patent Publication No.
274,394, published July 13, 1988; European Patent Publication
No. 323,806, published July 12, 1989; PCT International
Publication No. WO/89/00999, published February 9, 1989;
European Patent Publication No. 327,000, published August 9,
1989; European Patent Publication No. 328,404, published
August 16,1989; and European Patent Publication No. 332,424,
published September 13, 1989. These proved to be less
immunogenic but still approximately half of the recipients
mounted an immune response to the rodent variable region
framework residues. Further reduction of the "foreign" nature
of the chimeric antibodies has been achieved by grafting only
the CDRs from the rodent monoclonal into a human supporting
framework prior to its subsequent fusion with an appropriate
constant domain, Winter European Patent Application,
Publication No. 239,400; Riechmann et al., Nature 332: 323-327
(1988). The procedures employed to accomplish CDR-grafting
often result in imperfectly "humanized" antibodies. That is to
say, the resultant antibody has either lost avidity (usually 2-3
fold, at best) or in an attempt to retain its original avidity a
significant number of the murine framework residues have 
replaced the corresponding ones of the chosen human
framework. In this later case, the immunogenicity of the
modified "humanized" antibody is difficult to anticipate  a
priori . 
     
    
    [0015]
     The ligand binding characteristics of an antibody
combining site are determined primarily by the structure and
relative disposition of the CDRs, although some neighboring
residues also have been found to be involved in antigen binding
(Davies  et   al ., Ann. Rev. Biochem.  59 : 439-473 [1990]). Fine
specificity can be perserved in a "humanized" antibody only if
the CDR structures, their interaction with each other, and their
interaction with the rest of the variable domains are strictly
maintained. One may anticipate that the key residues
represent "interior" and interdomain contact residues, hence
those surface exposed residues which are immediately
available for immune surveillance should be non- inclusive of
the structural residues. 
     
    
    [0016]
     EP-A-438312 discloses the incorporation of a CDR from a
first species into a second species which has similar variable heavy
and light chain frameworks to the first species. 
     
    
    [0017]
     Tempest  et al ., Bio/Technology  9 , 266-271 (1991) discloses
transferring CDRs from a murine monoclonal antibody to a human
monoclonal antibody, then making additional alterations to one of
the framework regions to restore binding affinity and specificity. 
     
    
    [0018]
     WO-A-9007861 discloses a humanized immunoglobulin
having a human framework and CDRs from a second species. At
least one framework amino acid is substituted by the corresponding
amino acid from the donor Ig where the human amino acid is rare
for that position but the donor amino acid in that position is
common in humans.  
   
 OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0019]
     It is, accordingly, an objective of the present invention to
provide a
method of producing immunoglobulin
according to  claim  1.  
   
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0020]
     A unique method is disclosed for identifying and
replacing immunoglobulin surface amino acid residues which
converts the antigenicity of a first mammalian species to that of
a second mammalian species. The method will simultaneously
change immunogenicity and strictly preserve ligand binding
properties. The judicious replacement of exterior amino acid
residues has no effect on the ligand binding properties but
greatly alters immunogenicity. 
   
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0021]
     The present invention relates to a "humanization"
procedure which simultaneously reduces the immunogenicity
of the rodent monoclonal antibody while preserving its ligand
binding properties in their entirety. Since the antigenicity of a
protein is primarily dependent on the nature of its surface, the
immunogenicity of an xenogenic or allogenic antibody could be
reduced by replacing the exposed residues which differ from
those usually found in another mammalian species antibodies.
This judicious replacement of exterior residues should have
little, or no, effect on the interior domains, or on the
interdomain contacts. Thus, ligand binding properties should 
be unaffected as a consequence of alterations which are limited
to the variable region framework residues. The process is
refered to as "veneering" since only the outer surface or skin of
the antibody is altered, the supporting residues remain
undisturbed. 
     
    
    [0022]
     The procedure for "veneering" makes use of the available
sequence data for human antibody variable domains complied
by Kabat et al., "Sequences of Proteins of Immunological
Interest", 4th ed., Bethesda, Maryland: National Institutes of
Health, 1987, updates to this database, and other accessible U.S.
and foreign databases (both nucleic acid and protein). The
subgroups into which the various sequences have been
combined are presented in Figures 1 - 3, indicating the most
frequently occurring amino acid at each framework position.
Also presented are the sequences of the various J-minigenes.
The solvent accessibilities of the amino acids, as deduced from
the known three-dimensional structure for human and mouse
antibody fragments, are included in these figures. 
     
    
    [0023]
     High resolution X-ray crystallography of the variable
domains of the antibodies KOL and J539 have been subjected to
extensive refinement beginning with the structures available
from the Protein Data Bank (Bernstein  et   al ., J. Mol. Biol. 112:
535-542 1977; file 2FB4 for KOL and file 2FBJ for J529). The
solvent accessibilities were computed as described by Padlan
Proteins: Struct. Funct. Genet.  7 : 112-124 (1990). 
     
    
    [0024]
     There are two steps in the process of "veneering". First,
the framework of a first animal species, e.g. the mouse, variable
domains are compared with those corresponding frameworks
of a second animal species, e.g. human. It is intended that this
invention will allow the antigenic alteration of any animal
species antibody. The present invention illustrates the
conversion of murine antibody to human antibody, but this is
for illustrative purposes only. The most homologous human 
variable regions are then compared residue for residue to the
corresponding murine regions. This will also define the
human subgroup to which each mouse sequence most closely
resembles. Second, those residues in the mouse framework
which differ from its human counterpart are replaced by the
residues present in the human counterpart. This switching
occurs only with those residues which are at least partially
exposed (mE and Ex; Figures 1-3) (i.e. those having a fractional accessibility of at least 0.61). One retains in the
"veneered" mouse antibody: its CDRs, the residues neighboring
the CDRs, those residues defined as buried or mostly buried
(mB and Bu; Figures 1-3), and those residues believed to be
involved with interdomain contacts (boldface, Figures 1-3). 
     
    
    [0025]
     Human and murine sequences frequently differ at the N-terminus
of both heavy and light chains. The N-termini are
contiguous with the CDR surface and are in position to be
involved in ligand binding. Thus, wisdom would dictate that
these murine termini be retained in its "veneered" version. 
     
    
    [0026]
     Finally, replacement of some amino acid types could
have a significant effect on the tertiary structure or electrostatic
interactions of the variable region domains. Hence, care
should be exercised in the replacement of proline, glycine, and
charged amino acids. 
     
    
    [0027]
     These criteria and the following procedures are used to
prepare recombinant DNA sequences which incorporate the
CDRs of a first mammalian species, animal, mMAb, both light
and heavy chains, into a second mammalian species, human,
appearing frameworks that can be used to transfect
mammalian cells for the expression of recombinant human
antibody with the antigen specificity of the animal monoclonal
antibody. 
Preferrably the recombinant immunoglobulins will
be recognized as self proteins when administered for
threapeutic purposes. This method of "veneering" will render
the recombinant antibodies useful as therapeutic agents
because they will be either weakly immunogenic or non-immunogenic
when administered to humans. The invention is
further contemplated to include the recombinant conversion of
any animal monoclonal antibody into a recombinant "human-appearing"
monoclonal antibody providing that a suitable
framework region can be identified (as described below). The
animal monoclonals may include, but are not limited to, those
murine monoclonal antibodies described by VanVoorhis et al.,
J. Exp. Med. 158: 126-145 (1983) which bind to human leukocytes
and the appropriate mMAbs produced by hybridomas deposited
in the Hybridoma Cell Bank maintained by the American Type
Culture Collection (ATCC) and described in the ATCC Catalog
of  Cell Lines  8 Hybridomas, No. 6, 1988. 
     
    
    [0028]
     The CDR sequences from the animal monoclonal
antibody are derived as follows. Total RNA is extracted from
the murine hybridomas, for exampe the 1B4 myeloma cells
described by Wright et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80: 5699-5703
(1983), the 60.3 cells described by Beatty et al., J. Immunol. 
131:2913-2918 (1983), the TS1/18 cells described by Sanchez-Madrid
et al., J. Exp. Med. 158: 1785-1803 (1983), and other anti-CD18
or CD11 monoclonal antibodies and hybridomas as
described in Leukocyte Typing lll, Springer-Verlag, New York
(1988), using standard methods involving cellular solubilization
with guanidinium isothiocyanate (Chirgwin et al., Biochem.
18: 5294-5299 [1979]). The murine 1B4 mMAb will be used as the
primary example of animal MAb that can be "veneered" by the
unique process being disclosed. The invention is intended to
include the conversion of any animal immunoglobulin to a
"human-appearing" immunoglobulin. It is further intended
that "human-appearing" immunoglobulin (Ig) can contain
either kappa or lambda light chains or be one of any of the
following heavy chain isotypes (alpha, delta, epsilon, gamma
and mu). 
     
    
    [0029]
     Pairs of degenerate oligodeoxynucleotide primers (Figure
4) representing sequences within  framework  1 of the murine
kappa light chain variable region and light chain constant
domain, or those within  framework  1 of the murine IgG2a
heavy chain variable region and heavy chain constant CH1
domain are synthesized on an Applied Biosystem 381A DNA
synthesizer, removed from the resin by treatment with
concentrated NH 4 0H and desalted on a NAP-5 column eluted
with  H       2 0. Total RNA, about 2 µg, is reverse transcribed for 30
min at 42°C using Moloney MLV reverse transcriptase, about
200 units (BRL), and about 10 pmoles of the constant region
complementary strand primers for either the heavy or light
chain. The reverse transcriptase is heat inactivated, at about 95°
C for about 5 min, and the reactions are made to contain in
about 100 µl of PCR buffer about 50 pmoles of each of the paired
primers and and 2.5 units of Taq polymerase. About 45 cycles of
amplification (2', 94° C; 2', 55° C; 2' 72° C) are followed by gel
purification of the anticipated 400+ base pair (bp) DNA 
fragments. Prior to subcloning those DNAs into a blunt-ended
intermediate plasmid such as pSP72 (Promega) they are
terminally phosphorylated using T4 polynucleotide kinase.
Multiple clones representing these PCR amplified sequences
are grown and submitted to DNA sequence determinations
using Sequenase® and T7 and SP6 specific sequencing
primers. A unique DNA sequence representing a murine
IgG2a heavy chain variable region is obtained by analysis of the
derived amino acid sequences. Replacement of the "murine-appearing"
framework residues with those residues compatible
with a human variable region is accomplished utilizing the
following unique processes. An appropriate human framework
is determined utilizing the criteria discussed below. The light
chain variable region framework with sufficient homology to
the the m1B4 framework was determined to be the human LEN
framework (FR). The Len FR shows a similarity of 90% and an
identity of 81% when compared to murine 1B4. This sequence,
with its leader, 3' intronic sequences and engrafted m1B4 CDRs
had been subcloned into the intermediate vector pGEM3Z
(Promega), as described in Daugherty  et   al . Nucleic Acids Res.
19: (1991). About eight oligodeoxynucleotide primers (Figure
5) are synthesized representing the primers necessary to
generate by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification four
DNA fragments. Incorporated into all but the terminal
oligodeoxynucleotide primers were those sequences
corresponding to the veneered MAb 1B4 light chain, with its
unaltered CDRs, and at least 15 bases of 5'-terminal
complementarity to allow for the subsequent PCR- directed
recombination of these four fragments. For the purposes of
exemplifying the "veneering" process the LEN light chain
variable region already containing an engrafted set of CDRs
representing those within the light chain of murine 1B4 was
used as the template into which mutations were placed so as to 
easily create the "veneered" framework sequence. The
appropriate primer pair (S1 & V9, V10 & V11, etc.), about 50
pmole each, was combined with about 10 ng of plasmid DNA
representing the LEN CDR- grafted framework, about 2.5 units
of Taq DNA polymerase and about twenty-five (25) cycles of PCR
amplification ensued (cycle periods: 1', 94° C; 1', 55° C; 2' 72° C).
The products of the four reactions, purified by agarose gel
electrophoresis, are combined, about 10 ng of each DNA
fragment, along with terminal oligodeoxynucleotide primers
(A1 &A2, Figure 6) and Taq DNA polymerase. The combined
fragments were PCR amplified (25 cycles of: 2', 94° C; 2', 55° C;
2' 72° C). Following restriction endonuclease digestion with
Hind lll and Xba I the amplified DNA is purified by agarose gel
electrophoresis and subcloned into compatible sites of an
intermediate vector pSP72 (Promega) which contains the
human kappa light chain constant region (see Figure 7).
Genomic DNA, about 1 µg, purified from a human B cell line
(GM0108A: NIGMS Human Genetic Mutant Cell Repository,
Institute for Medical Research, Camden, NJ) is used as a
template for PCR amplification (Figure 4) of about a 920 base
pair fragment containing the splice acceptor for the kappa light
chain constant domain, the exon and a portion of its 3'-untranslated
region. The PCR product is purified by agarose
gel electrophoresis, digested with Bam H1 endonuclease, and
subcloned into pSP72 previously linearized with Bam H1. The
individual clones representing the pSP72 intermediate vector
containing both the 1B4 "veneered" light chain variable region
and the human kappa constant region derived by PCR
amplification of human DNA are used to determine the DNA
sequence of the "veneered" light chain varisble region. 
     
    
    [0030]
     The "veneered" heavy chain portion of the recombinant
antibody is derived from the mutated version of the murine 1B4
heavy chain variable region fused to the human constant region 
of a  gamma  4 subtype obtained from a lambda library
constructed by Flanagan and Rabbits, Nature 300: 709-713
(1982). The variable region of the "veneered" heavy chain is
constructed from five DNA fragments representing a signal
sequence, portions of the mutated murine heavy chain variable
region, and an intronic sequence (Figure 8).
Oligodeoxynucleotide primer pairs (Figure 5) are synthesized
representing the primers necessary to generate by PCR
amplification these five DNA fragments from about 10 ng of
plasmid DNA template obtained from a pSP72 intermediate
vector containing the heavy chain variable region previously
used to determine the murine 1B4 CDR sequence.
Amplification of the signal fragment, variable region
fragments, and intron-containing fragment was as described
above. The agarose gel purified products are combined, about
10 ng of each product, with terminal oligodeoxynucleotide
primer pairs (Figure 8) and the PCR-generated in vitro
recombined template is amplified using the standard
procedures described above. Prior to subcloning into a Hind III
and Bam HI digested expression vector containing the human
 heavy chain gamma  4 constant region (Figure 9), this
recombined product is similarly digested and agarose gel
purified. Individual clones are submitted to DNA sequence
determination using Sequenase® and T7 and SP6 specific
sequencing primers and one is chosen for subsequent
expression. The  gamma  4 heavy chain constant region is
subcloned as about a 6.7  Kb Hind  111 fragment derived from the
plasmid pAT84 into the Hind lll site of the intermediate vector
pSP72. This plasmid is then used as the template DNA from
which a shortened version of the  gamma  4 constant region is
subcloned using PCR amplification and the primer pairs
indicated in Figure 4. Eukaryotic expression vectors are
constructed as described below.  
     
    
    [0031]
     Expression vectors are defined herein as DNA sequences
that are required for the transcription of cloned copies of genes
and the translation of their mRNAs in an appropriate host.
Such vectors can be used to express eukaryotic genes in a
variety of hosts such as bacteria, blue-green algae, plant cells,
yeast cells, insect cells and animal cells. The
immunoglobulins may also be expressed in a number of virus
systems. Specifically designed vectors allow the shuttling of
DNA between host such as bacteria-yeast or bacteria-animal
cells. An appropriately constructed expression vector should
contain: an origin of replication for autonomous replication in
host cells, selectable markers, a limited number of useful
restriction enzyme sites, a potential for high copy number, and
strong promoters. A promoter is defined as a DNA sequence
that directs RNA polymerase to bind to DNA and initiate RNA
synthesis. A strong promoter is one which causes mRNAs to
be initiated at high frequency. Expression vectors may include,
but are not limited to, cloning vectors, modified cloning vectors,
specifically designed plasmids or viruses. The heavy chain
immunoglobulin molecule is transcribed from a plasmid
carrying the neomycin (G418) resistance marker while the light
chain immunoglobulin is transcribed from a plasmid carrying
the hygromycin B resistance marker. With the exception of the
drug resistance portion of these plasmids they are identical.
The preferred progenitor of the immunoglobulin expression
vectors is the pD5 (Berkner and Sharp, Nucl. Acids Res.  13 : 841-857
[1985]) eukaryotic expression vector which contains the
origin of adenovirus replication, the SV40 enhancer domain,
the adenovirus major late promoter, the  adenovirus  2 tripartite
leader, a 5' splice donor from the adenovirus third leader and a
3' splice acceptor derived from an immunoglobulin locus, a
multiple cloning site placed in the Bam H1 site subsequent to
receipt of the vector, and the SV40 late polyadenylation signal 
(Figure 10). The origin of replication is removed by digestion
with Eco R1 and Kpn I and replaced by two fragments
representing the neo selectable marker gene (derived from
plasmid pCMVIE-AK1-DHFR as an Eco R1/Bam H1 about1.8 Kb
fragment) and the Ig heavy chain enhancer (obtained as a PCR
amplified fragment using human DNA as the template, and
the oligodeoxynudeotides listed in Figure 4 as the primer pair,
following its digestion with Bgl ll and Kpn 1). The resultant
expression vector is found to lack a small portion of the TK
promoter responsible for the transcription of the neomycin
gene. This is replaced by insertion into the Eco Rl site about a
0.14 Kb PCR amplified fragment derived from the CMVIE-AK1-DHFR
DNA using the primer pair listed in Figure 4. The
resultant heavy chain expression vector (p8941) is modified by
removal of the indicated Hind lll and Xba I sites using standard
procedures. To convert this vector into one expressing the hyg
romycin B selectable marker the neomycin-resistance cassette
is removed by digestion first with Eco R1 followed by DNA
polymerase-directed fill in of the 5' overhand, then subsequent
Sal I digestion. The about 1.9 Kb hygromycin B expression
cassette, TK promoter and TK polyadenylation signal flanking
the hygromycin B gene, (obtained as a 1.8 kb Bam H1 fragment
in plasmid pL690, Gritz and Davies, Gene 25: 179-188 [1981]) is
removed from the plasmid pAL-2 by Bam H1 digestion and
subcloned into the Bam H1 site of the intermediate vector pSP72.
The hygromycin B cassette is removed from this vector by
digestion with Sma I and Sal I and cloned into the expression
vector linearized as described above to create a blunt end and
Sal I end DNA fragment (Figure 11). 
     
    
    [0032]
     Expression of the 1B4 "veneered" kappa light chain is
accomplished by transferring this cistron from the pSP72-based
intermediate cloning vector (p8952), containing the human
kappa constant region, to the hygromycin B selectable 
eukaryotic expression vector (Figure 7). An about 1.5 kb DNA
fragment resulting from the endonuclease digestion of p8952
with Spe I and Cla I is purified by agarose gel electrophoresis
and ligated into the expression vector which has previously
been linearized, following digestion with the same two
restriction enzymes; and agarose gel purified. The heavy chain
eukaryotic expression vector is constructed in two steps. First,
the p8950 vector containing the modified heavy chain variable
region of murine 1B4 fragment is digested with Bgl ll and Bam
H1. The agarose gel purified 0.75 kb fragment is ligated into the
Bam H1 site of the p8941 vector and recombinant clones
containing this fragment in the proper orientation are
identified. Plasmid DNA from one such clone is linearized by
Bam H1 digestion and ligated with a 1.78 Kb Bam H1 fragment
representing a short version of the  human gamma  4 constant
region, derived from plasmid pAT84 by PCR amplification.
Following the identification of clones containing these inserts
in the appropriate orientation, plasmid DNAs (one which is
referred to as p8953) are grown and purified for transfection
into recipient mammalian cells. Equal amounts, about 10 µg,
of the plasmids encoding the 1B4 "veneered" IgG4 heavy chain
and the 1B4 "veneered" kappa light chain are transfected by
standard calcium phosphate precipitation procedures into the
monkey kidney cell line CV-1P or the human embryonic kidney
cell line 293. The culture supernants, assayed by a trapping
ELISA (described below), were found to contain a human kappa
light chain / human IgG4 immuno-globulin. Immulon-2
(Dynatech Labs.) 96-well plates are coated overnight with about
a 5 µg/ml solution of mouse anti-human kappa chain constant
domain monoclonal antibody (cat. #MC009, The Binding Site,
Inc., San Diego, CA) in about 0.1 M NaHCO 3  buffer (pH 8.2) at
about 4° C, and blocked with about 1% bovine serum (BSA) in
about 0.1 M NaHCO 3  for about 1 hour at about 25° C. After this 
and all subsequent steps, washing was performed with
phosphate buffered saline (PBS). The wells are then challenged
with conditioned medium containing recombinant anti-CD18
antibody, or with predetermined quantities of human
IgG4/kappa purified by protein A Sepharose® (Pharmacia Fine
Chemicals) chromatography from human IgG4 myeloma
serum (cat. # BP026, The Binding Site, Inc.) All samples are
diluted in PBS containing about 0.05% Tween®-20. About 100 µl
aliquots are incubated for about 1 hour at about 37° C in
triplicate, and standard calibration curves are constructed
using IgG4 concentrations ranging from about 10 ng/ml to
about 100 ng/ml. Bound and fully assembled human IgG4
(either native or the recombinant 1B4 human "veneered" IgG4
constructs) are detected with about 100 µl aliquots of a 1:500
dilution of mouse anti-human IgG4 Fc monoclonal antibody
conjugated to alkaline phosphatase (cat #05-3822, Zymed
Laboratories, Inc.) in phosphate buffered saline (PBS)
containing about 1 % BSA. After incubation for about 1 hour at
about 37°C and subsequent washing, the quantities of bound
conjugate are detected by incubating all samples with a 1
mg/ml solution of p-nitrophenyl phosphate in 0.1  M  2,2' amino
methyl-propanediol buffer, pH 10.3, for about 30 minutes at
about 25° C. The adsorbance of the wells is determined with a
UV Max ELISA plate reader (Molecular Devices) set at 405 nm.
The antibody secreted by the transfected human 293 cells or
monkey kidney CV1 P cells, either following transient
expression or subsequent to stable clone isolation, is isolated by
protein A chromatography, the concentration of recombinant
human anti-CD18 antibodies determined by the trapping Elisa
described above, and used to compete with the binding of
radiolabeled murine 1B4 to the CD18 ligand on the surface of
activated human PMNs. Affinities of r-anti-CD18 antibody
constructs are determined using a competitive  125 I-1 B4 soluble 
binding assay with stimulated human polymorpho-nuclear
leukocytes (PMNs). Purified murine anti-CD18 monoclonal
antibody (50 ug) is iodinated using chloramine-T (Hunter, W.M.
and Greenwood, F.C., Nature 194: 495-496, 1962), and the
radiolabeled antibody purified using a Bio-Sil® TSK250 (Biorad,
Richmond, CA) gel filtration HPLC column (which fractionates
proteins in the range of 1-300 x 103 daltons) equilibrated in 0.1 M
phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. Effluent radioactivity is monitored
with an in-line detector (Beckman Model 170; Beckman,
Fullerton,CA) and total protein measured at OD 280  with a
Kratos Spectroflow 757 detector (Kratos, Mawah, N.J.). A
single  125 l-1B4 peak composed of coincident OD 280  and
radioactivity tracings characteristically elutes at about 6
minutes, 30 seconds following sample injection. Specific
activity of the product is generally about 10 µCi/µg protein, and
97-99% of the counts are precipitable with 10% trichloroacetic
acid. The binding of this radiolabeled antibody is assessed on
human PMNs purified on a discontinuous Ficoll/Hypaque
gradient (English, D. and Anderson, B.R., J. Immunol.
Methods  5 : 249-255, 1974) and activated with about 100 ng/ml
phorbol myristate acetate for about 20 minutes at about 37°C (Lo
 et   al ., J. Exp. Med.  169 : 1779-1793, 1989). To determine the
avidity of antibodies for CD18 molecules on the PMN surface,
about 1 x 10 5  activated PMNs are incubated in a buffer such as
Hanks balanced salt solution containing about 20 mM Hepes
(pH 7.2), about 0.14 units aprotinin (Sigma Chemical Co.) and
about 2% human serum albumin (binding buffer) containing
about 1.3 ng  125 I-1B4 (2.8 x 10 -11  M) in the presence of increasing
concentrations of unlabeled 1B4 antibody (about 10 -7  to 10- 15 M)
in about a 300 µl reaction volume for about 1 hour at about 4°C
with constant agitation. Cell bound 1B4 is separated from the
unbound antibody by centrifugation through a 0.5 M sucrose
cushion ( 4,800 x g, 3 minutes); the tubes are frozen on dry ice, 
and the tips cut off and counted with an LKB gamma counter.
The IC 50  of the anti-CD18 antibody for the inhibition of  125 I-1B4
antibody binding is calculated using a four parameter fitter
program (Rodbard et al., In, "Radioimmunoassay and Related
Procedures in Medicine", International Atomic Energy
Agency, Vienna, vol 1,469 - 504, 1978). The affinity of the
"veneered" r-anti-CD18 antibody for the CD18 ligand is
determined in a similar manner using murine  125 I-1B4
antibody and increasing quantities, as determined by the
trapping Elisa, of unlabeled r-anti-CD18. The results of the
binding assays are shown in Figure 13 and indicate that the
avidity of the "veneered" recombinant 1B4 antibody is equal to
that of the murine 1B4 monoclonal antibody. This result shows
that an antibody with presumptive human isotype may be
recombinantly constructed from the murine parent antibody by
the introduction of numerous point mutations in its framework
residues and expressed fused to human kappa and  gamma  4
constant domains without loss in avidity for the antigen. It can
be inferred from this result that the point mutations within the
framework regions do not alter the presentation of the murine
1B4 light chain and heavy chain CDRs. Many of the examples
of construction of recombinant human antibodies containing
complementary regions replaced by those found within
murine monoclonal antibodies have resulted in loss of avidity
for the ligand or antigen. Thus, although these latter
transmutations are possible, the successful maintenance of
avidity is not assured. This procedure described above
demonstrates that when strict attention is paid to the
framework regions, and the nature of the amino acids within
each framework, "humanization" may potentially be achieved
without the loss of avidity which accompanies the transfer of
CDRs to the "generic" human frameworks ("humanization") 
employed by Winter, European Patent Publication No. 239,400,
published September 30, 1987. 
     
    
    [0033]
     To identify human framework sequences compatible with
the CDRs of, say, murine 1B4, human frameworks with a high
degree of sequence similarity to those of murine 1B4 are
identified. Sequence similarity is measured using identical
residues as well as evolutionarily conservative amino acid
substitutions. Similarity searches are performed using the
murine 1B4 framework sequence from which the CDR
sequences had been removed. This sequence is used to query a
database of human immunoglobulin sequences that had been
derived from multiple sources. Sequences with a high degree of
sequence similarity are examined individually for their
potential as humanizing framework sequences. In this way,
the human homologue providing the murine CDRs with the
structure most similar to their native murine framework is
selected as the template for the construction of the "veneered"
variable regions (Figure 12). Should human frameworks of
sufficient similarity not be identifiable from compiled
sequences, it is possible to isolate from human genomic DNA a
group of closely related variable regions using recombinant
technology. Thus, a  degenerate  5' upstream
oligodeoxynucleotide primer may be designed from the
conserved sequences within the amino-terminus of each of the
various human FR1 regions and paired with a degenerate 3'
downstream oligodeoxynucleotide primers fashioned from the
FR sequence determined from the murine monoclonal whose
CDRs one wishes to transfer into a human context. These
primer pairs are then used to PCR amplify from a human
genomic template those DNA sequences which are flanked by
the primer pair. The resulting DNAs may then be cloned and
the DNA sequence derived from individual members will
describe various murine-related human variable regions. The 
paucity of somatic mutations in framework residues and the
conservation of amino acid sequence between mouse and man
make this approach possible. 
     
    
    [0034]
     The construction of a complete recombinant human IgG4
antibody, whose heavy and light chain variable domains
contain the CDR residues of the murine monoclonal antibody,
with complete retention of the specificity and avidity of the
parent murine monoclonal antibody is disclosed. The
construction of the "veneered" light chain framework derived
from the human sequence of LEN fused with a human kappa
light chain constant region is described above. The murine
variable region framework sequence, devoid of CDR sequences,
is used to query a database of complete human variable region
sequences. The human sequences that are most similar to the
murine framework region are then analyzed individually to
determine both their sequence identity and similarity to the
murine framework region. In the case of murine 1B4 these
sequences include, but are not limited to, "Gal", chosen because
of its high degree of both similarity and identity with the 1B4
heavy chain sequence. The Gal FR has been found to be 85%
similar and 79% identical to murine 1B4. These values are
based upon the Dayhoff similarity matrix of evolutionarily
conserved amino acid substitutions (R. M. Schwartz, M. O.
Dayhoff, in Atlas of Protein sequence and structure M. O.
Dayhoff, Eds. (National Biomedical Research Foundation,
Washington, DC [1979]) (Figure 12). To prepare a recombinant
DNA encoding the murine heavy chain CDRs in the context of a
human-appearing framework the following procedures are
performed. A set of ten short oligodeoxynucleotides are
synthesized. Each pair is combined in a separate PCR reaction
with the DNA template representing the murine 1B4 heavy
chain variable region, amplified and isolated following PCR of
the RNA of the murine hybridoma 1B4 as described above. 
Thus, about 50 pmole of each primer pair was combined with
about 10 ng of plasmid DNA representing the murine 1B4 heavy
chain variable region, about 2.5 units of Taq DNA polymerase
and about twenty- five (25) cycles of PCR amplification ensued
(cycle periods: 1', 94°C; 1', 55°C; 2' 72°C). The products of the
five reactions (Figure 8) encoded portions of the 1B4 heavy chain
variable region, beginning with the signal peptide encoding
region and ending with the 3' intronic sequence which resides
between the variable region coding domain and the IgG4
constant region sequence, with the desired point mutations to
create a "veneered" variable region framework. These five
fragments are purified by agarose gel electrophoresis,
combined, about 10 ng of each DNA fragment, along with
terminal oligodeoxynucleotide primers (A1 &A2, Figure 5) and
Taq DNA polymerase. The combined fragments were PCR
amplified (25 cycles of: 2', 94°C; 2', 55°C; 2' 72°C). By virtue of
the complementary ends of the five fragments, the
polymerization/denaturation/polymerization cycles of the
polymerase chain reaction result in the formation, and
subsequent amplification, of the combined sequences.
Following 25 cycles of amplification the combined 0.8 Kb
fragment is electrophoretically purified from an agarose gel
and was digested with restriction enzymes Spe I and Bam H1.
Following agarose gel electrophoresis, the purified DNA
fragment is ligated into the heavy chain expression vector,
p8958 (see Figure 9), in place of the chimaeric variable region
existing in this vector. Each "veneered" variable region, with
its associated human constant region, residing within a pD5-based
expression vector plasmid was co-transfected into 293
cells and CV1 P cells and recombinant human antibody is
found to be present in the conditioned medium 48 hours post
transfection. The "veneered" recombinant antibody is isolated
by protein A chromatography. The avidity of this antibody for 
the CD18 ligand displayed on the surface of activated human
PMNs is compared with that of the murine 1B4 monoclonal
antibody parent. Figure 13 shows that although each antibody
contains the same set of six CDRs within different framework
domains, they exhibit identical avidity for the ligand. Thus, the
avidity of an antibody molecule does not rely upon the variable
region framework residues which are surface exposed, rather
the proper structure in which the CDRs are presented must be
significantly influenced by the buried and inter/intra active
residues. The parent murine monoclonal antibody
demonstrates an IC 50  of about 1.0 to about 0.7 nM, the
"veneered" molecule has a similar IC 50 . 
     
    
    [0035]
     Further a method of inhibiting
the influx or migration of leukocytes capable of expressing
CD18 antigen (leukocyte integrin, beta subunit) on their surface
into a site of inflammation or a tissue area or organ that will
become inflamed following an influx of the cells is disclosed. The
inflammation
may result from an infection with pathogenic
microorganisms such as gram-positive and gram-negative
bacteria, parasites and fungi. The response may also be
induced by viruses and non-infectious means such as trauma
or reperfusion following myocardial infarction or stroke,
immune responses to foreign antigen and autoimmune
responses. The recombinant human anti-CD18 antibodies are
useful in the treatment of inflammation in lung, central
nervous system, kidney, joints, endocardium, eyes, ears, skin,
gastrointestinal tract and urogenital system. Disease states in
which the recombinant human anti-CD18 antibodies are useful
as therapeutic agents include, but are not limited to: infectious
diseases where active infection exists at any body site, such as
meningitis; conditions such as chronic or acute secondary
inflammations caused by antigen deposition; and other 
conditions such as, encephalitis; arthritis; uveitis; colitis;
glomerulonephritis; dermatitis; psoriasis; and respiratory
distress syndrome associated with sepsis and/or trama. Other
inflammatory diseases which may be responsive to
recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody include, but are not
limited to, immune disorders and conditions involving T-cell
and/or macrophage attachment/recognition, such as acute and
delayed hypersensitivity, graft vs. host disease; primary
autoimmune conditions such as pernicious anemia; infection
related autoimmune conditions such as Type I diabetes
mellitis; flares during rheumatoid arthritis; diseases that
involve leukocyte diapedesis, such as multiple sclerosis;
antigen-antibody complex mediated diseases including certain
of the secondary infection states listed above;
immunosuppression; and transplant rejection. Inflammatory
conditions due to toxic shock or trauma such as adult
respiratory distress syndrome and reperfusion injury; and
disease states due to leukocyte dyscrasias and metastasis, are
foreseen.
Inhibition of leukocyte-endothelial
attachment for diagnostic and therapeutic
purposes; such as the iatrogenic opening of the endothelium to
prevent the ingress of leukocytes during the ingress of a
therapeutic drug in the instance of chemotherapy; or to
enhance the harvesting of leukocytes from patients is also anticipated. 
     
    
    [0036]
     Recombinant human anti-CD18 antibodies or an active
fragment thereof can be used to treat the above mentioned
diseases. An active fragment will include the F(ab')2, the Fab
and any other fragment that can bind to the CD18 antigen.
Recombinant human anti-CD18 antibodies can be administered
alone for non-infectious disease states or combined with
antibiotics or other anti-infective agents for the treatment of
infectious diseases for reasons discussed above. 
Administration will generally include the antibodies and
possibly other substances in a physiologically acceptable
medium or pharmaceutical carrier. Such physiologically
acceptable media or phamaceutical carriers include, but are
not limited to, physiological saline, phosphate buffered saline,
phosphate buffered saline glucose, buffered saline and the like.
The antibodies and any anti-infective agent will be
administered by parenteral routes which include intravenous,
intramuscular, subcutaneous and intraperitoneal injection or
delivery. The amount of the antibodies and the mixture in the
dosage form is dependent upon the particular disease state
being treated. The amount of the recombinant human anti-CD18
antibody utilized in a dosage form can range from about 1
to about 1,000 mg, with a range of from about 10 mg to about 100
mg being preferred. The antibodies can be administered daily
or less than daily as determined by the treating physician. The
following examples illustrate the present invention without,
however, limiting the same thereto. 
   
 EXAMPLE 
 
 Preparation of a "Veneered" Recombinant Antibody 
   
    
    [0037]
     An antibody was produced in which the variable domain
of the light chain comprises the framework region of a murine
light chain modified to contain surface exposed amino acids of
human derivation. The variable domain of the heavy chain is
similarly derived from the murine heavy chain with point
mutations which replace murine exposed residues with
human-appearing residues. The light chain human
framework region was derived from human myeloma protein
LEN. The CDR and framework sequences from the murine
monoclonal antibody 1B4 which binds to CD18 (the beta subunit 
of the leukocyte integrin B-2 family which includes: LFA-1,
Mac-1, and p150.95) were derived as follows. The hybridoma
designated 1B4 which produces 1B4 monoclonal antibody was
deposited under the Budapest Treaty at the International
Depository Authority: American Type Culture Collection, 12301
Parklawn Drive, Rockville, MD, 20852. Viability was
determined on June 6, 1989 and the hybridoma was designated
HB 10164. Previous experiments had determined this antibody
to be an IgG 2a with a kappa light chain (Wright  et   al ., Proc.
Natl. Acal. Sci. USA  80 : 5699-5703 [1983]). 
     
    
    [0038]
     Total RNA was extracted from the 1B4 myeloma cells
using standard methods involving cellular solubilization with
guanidinium isothiocyanate (Chirgwin  et   al ., Biochem.  18 :5294-5299
[1979]). Sets of degenerate oligodeoxynucleotide primers
(Figure 4) representing sequences within  framework  1 of the
murine kappa light chain variable region and kappa light
chain constant domain, or those within  framework  1 of the
murine IgG2a heavy chain variable region and heavy chain
constant CH1 domain were synthesized by standard
phosphoramidite procedures on an Applied Biosystem 381A
DNA synthesizer. Removal of the oligodeoxy-nucleotides
(oligos) from the resin was accomplished by treatment with
concentrated NH 4 OH followed by desalting on a NAP-5 column
(Pharmacia) with H 2 O elution (when the oligos were <45 bases
in length), or by use of an OPC column (Applied Biosystems
Inc) with 20% acetonitrile elution (when the oligos were >45
bases in length), as recommended by the manufacturers. Total
RNA (2µg) was reversed transcribed for 30' at 42°C using
Moloney MLV reverse transcriptase (200 units, BRL) and 10
pmoles of the constant region complementary strand primers
representing either heavy or light chain in a buffer (final
volume of 20 µl) containing 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.3, 75 mM
KCl, 3 mM MgCl 2 , 10 mM DTT, and 20 units of RNAsin 
(Pharmacia). The reverse transcriptase was heat inactivated
(95°C, 5') and the reactions were made to contain in 100µl of
PCR buffer (10 mM Tris HCI, pH 8.3, 50 mM KCI, 1.5 mM
MgCl 2 , 0.01% gelatin, 200 µM each dNTP), 50 pmoles of each of
the paired primers, and 2.5 units of Taq polymerase (Perkin
Elmer/Cetus). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification
was carried out essentially as described by Saiki  et   al ., Science
 230 : 1350-1354 (1985) and others (Mullis  et   al ., Cold Srping
Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 51 : 263-273 [1986], Dawasaki and
Wang, PCR Technology, Princples and Applications for DNA
Amplification, Erlich, Ed., Stockton Press, NY, pp. 89-97 [1989],
Tung  et   al ., ibid. pp. 99-104 [1989]). Forty five cycles of
amplification by a DNA Thermal Cycler (Perkin Elmer Cetus
Instruments)(2', 94°C; 2', 55°C; 2' 72°C) were followed by gel
purification of the anticipated 400+ base pair (bp) DNA
fragments. Prior to subcloning the DNAs into a blunt-ended
intermediate plasmid (pSP72, Promega) they were terminally
phosphorylated using T4 polynucleotide kinase (Boehringer
Mannheim). Multiple clones representing these PCR amplified
sequences were isolated form DH5 transformed E.coli plated on
LB agar plates containing 50 µg/ml ampicillin, grown by
described procedures (Maniatis  et   al ., Molecular Cloning, A
Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold
Spring Harbor, NY, 1982), plasmid DNAs were extracted from
the bacteria using the DNA preparation procedures of Birnboin
and Doly, Nucleic Acid Res.  7 : 1515 (1979), and the double-stranded
plasmid DNAs were submitted to DNA sequence
determinations using Sequenase® (United States
Biochemicals) and T7 and SP6 specific sequencing primers
(Boehringer Mannheim) using the protocols recommended by
the manufacturer. A unique DNA sequence representing a
murine IgG2a heavy chain variable region was obtained, as
was a kappa light chain variable region sequence.  
     
    
    [0039]
     To give the final appearance of a "veneered" murine light
chain, several residues within a template composed of the
human LEN framework, into which had been grafted the CDRs
described for 1B4, were replaced by corresponding residues
found in the murine 1B4 light chain framework. Replacement
of the human LEN variable region residues with those unique
to MAb 1B4 took place as follows. Eight oligodeoxynucleotides
(Figure 5) were synthesized representing the primers
necessary to generate by PCR amplification four DNA
fragments. Incorporated into all but the terminal
oligodeoxynucleotides were those sequences corresponding to
the MAb 1B4 light chain variable region framework residues to
be point mutated and at least 15 bases of 5'-terminal
complementarity (see Figure 6). The appropriate primer pair
(50 pmole each) was combined with 10 ng of a 1B4 CDR-grafted
LEN framework-containing plasmid DNA, 2.5 units of Taq
DNA polymerase, PCR reaction components and buffer, and
twenty-five (25) cycles of PCR amplification ensued (cycle
periods: 1', 94°C; 1', 55°C; 2' 72°C). The products of the four
reactions, purified by agarose gel electrophoresis, were
combined (10 ng of each DNA fragment) along with a terminal
oligodeoxynucleotide primer pair (amplifier) (Figures 5 & 6),
Taq DNA polymerase, PCR reaction components and buffer,
and the subsequent recombined fragments were amplified, as
described above, for twenty-five (see Figure 6). Following
restriction endonuclease digestion with HindIII and XbaI the
amplified DNA was purified from an agarose gel and
subcloned into these same sites of an intermediate vector pSP72
(Promega) which contained the human kappa light chain
constant region, obtained as follows. DNA (1µg) purified from
a human B cell line (GM01018A; NIGMS Human Genetic
Mutant Cell Repository, Institute for Medical Research,
Camden, N.J. 08103) was used as a template for the 
oligodeoxynucleotide primers described in Figure 4 to PCR
amplify a 920 base pair fragment containing the splice acceptor
for the human kappa light chain constant domain, the exon
and a portion of its 3'-untranslated region (PCR primer pair
choice was selected based on the kappa constant region
sequence described by Hieter  et   al ., Cell  22 : 197-207 (1980). The
PCR product was purified by agarose gel electrophoresis,
digested with Bam H1 endonuclease, and subcloned into pSP72
(Promega) previously linearized with Bam H1. 
     
    
    [0040]
     The individual clones representing the pSP72
intermediate vector containing both the 1B4 "veneered" light
chain variable region derived as described above, and the
human kappa constant region, derived by PCR amplification of
human DNA, were used to verify the DNA sequence of the
"veneered" light chain variable region. The "veneered" heavy
chain portion of the recombinant antibody was derived from a
point mutated murine 1B4 heavy chain variable region fused to
the human constant region of  gamma  4 subtype obtained from a
lambda library constructed by Flanagan and Rabbitts, Nature
 300 : 709-713 (1982). 
     
    
    [0041]
     The variable region of the "veneered" heavy chain was
constructed from five DNA fragments representing a signal
sequence, mutated portions of the murine 1B4 heavy chain
variable region, and an intronic sequence (Figure 8).
Oligodeoxy-nucleotide primer pairs (Figure 5) were synthesized
representing the primers necessary to generate by PCR
amplification these five DNA fragments from 10 ng of plasmid
DNA template containing the murine 1B4 heavy chain variable
region previously used to determine the murine 1B4 CDR and
framework sequences. Amplification of the five fragments was
performed as described above for the four light chain variable
region fragments. The agarose gel purified products were
combined (10 ng of each product) with terminal primer pairs 
(Figure 5) and the PCR-generated  in vitro  recombined template
was amplified using the standard procedure also described
above for recombining the fragments comprising the
"veneered" light chain variable region. Prior to subcloning into
a Hind III and Bam HI digested expression vector this
recombined product was similarly digested and agarose gel
purified. DNA was obtained following growth of individual
bacterial clones and submitted to DNA sequence determination
using Sequenase® and T7 and SP6 specific sequencing primers
in order to verify the sequence of the reconstructed variable
region and its flanking domains. 
     
    
    [0042]
     The  gamma  4 heavy chain constant region had been
subcloned as a 6.7 Kb Hind III fragment derived from the
plasmid pAT84 (Flanagan and Rabbitts, supra) into the Hind
III site of the intermediate vector pSP72 (Promega). This
plasmid was then used as the template DNA from which a
shortened version of the  gamma  4 constant region was obtained
using the standard PCR amplification procedures described
above and the primer pairs indicated in Figure 4. Eukaryotic
expression vectors were constructed as described below such
that the heavy chain immunoglobulin molecule was
transcribed from a plasmid carrying the neomycin (G418)
(Rothstein and Reznikoff, Cell  23 : 191-199 [1981]) resistance
marker, while the light chain immunoglobulin was
transcribed from a plasmid carrying the hygromycin B
resistance marker (Gritz and Davies, Gene  25 : 179-188 [1983]).
With the exception of the drug resistance portion of these
plasmids they are identical. 
     
    
    [0043]
     The progenitor of the immunoglobulin expression vectors
was the pD5 eukaryotic expression vector (Berkner and Sharp,
Nucl. Acids Res.  13 : 841-857 [1985]) which contained the origin
of adenovirus replication, the SV40 enhancer domain, the
adenovirus major late promoter, the  adenovirus  2 tripartite 
leader, a 5' splice donor from the adenovirus third leader and a
3' splice acceptor derived from an immunoglobulin locus, a
multiple cloning site, and the SV40 late polyadenylation signal
(Figure 10). The origin of replication was removed by digestion
with Eco R1 and Kpn I and replaced by two fragments
representing the neo selectable marker gene (derived from
plasmid pCMVIE-AK1-DHFR (Silberklang  et   al ., Modem
Approaches to Animal Cell Technology, Ed. Spier  et   al .,
Butterworth, U.K., [1987]) as an Eco R1/Bam H1 1.8 Kb
fragment) and the Ig heavy chain enhancer (obtained as a PCR
amplified fragment using standard procedures described above
and human DNA as the template; the oligodeoxynucleotide
primer pair is listed in Figure 4) following its digestion with Bgl
II and Kpn I. The resultant expression vector was found to
lack a small portion of the TK promoter responsible for the
transcription of the neomycin gene. This was replaced by
insertion into the Eco RI site of a 0.14 kb PCR amplified
fragment derived from the CMVIE-AK1-DHFR DNA using the
primer pair also listed in Figure 4. The resultant heavy chain
expression vector was subsequently modified by removal of the
indicated Hind III and Xba I sites. To convert this neomycin
selectable vector into one expressing the hygromycin B
selectable marker (Figure 11) the neomycin-resistance cassette
was removed by digestion first with Eco R1 followed by DNA
polymerase-directed fill in of the 5' overhang, then subsequent
Sal I digestion. The 1.9 kb hygromycin B expression cassette
[TK promoter and TK polyadenylation signal flanking the
hygromycin B gene obtained from Gritz and Davies, Gene  25 :
179-188 (1983), as the 1.9 kb Bam H1 fragment in plasmid
(pLG90)] was removed from the plasmid pAL-2 by Bam H1
digestion and subcloned into the Bam H1 site of the
intermediate vector pSP72 (Promega). The hygromycin B
cassette was removed from this vector by digestion with Sma I 
and Sal I and cloned into the expression vector linearized as
described above to create a blunt end and Sal I end DNA
fragment. 
     
    
    [0044]
     Expression of the 1B4 "veneered" kappa light chain was
accomplished by transferring this cistron from its position
within the pSP72 intermediate vector to the hygromycin B
selectable eukaryotic expression vector (Figure 7). A 1.5 kb
DNA fragment resulting from the endonuclease digestion of
v1B4 VK/pSP72 intermediate vector with Spe I and ClaI was
purified by agarose gel electro-phoresis and ligated into the
expression vector which had previously been linearized, by
digestion with the same two restriction enzymes and agarose
gel purified. 
     
    
    [0045]
     The 1B4 "veneered" heavy chain eukaryotic expression
vector was constructed in one step (Figure 9) from an existing
vector previously constructed to express a chimaeric form of the
1B4 heavy chain. The "veneered" heavy chain variable region
created by PCR amplifcation (Figure 8) was digested with Hind
III and Bam H1. The agarose gel purified 0.8 kb fragment was
ligated into the Hind III and Bam H1 sites of the pD5/IgH-Enhancer/Neo/1B4
VH-Short Human C- Gamma  4 expression
vector following its endonuclease digestion with these two
enzymes and subsequent purification by agarose gel
electrophoresesis (Figure 9). Transformants containing both
variable and constant regions were identified. Plasmid DNAs
were grown (Maniatis  et   al ., supra) and purified for
transfection into recipient mammalian cells (Maniatis  et   al .,
supra; Birbion and Doly, supra.). 
     
    
    [0046]
     Equal amounts (10µg) of the plasmids encoding the
"veneered" IgG4 heavy chain and the "veneered" kappa light
chain were transfected by standard calcium phosphate
precipitation procedures into human 293 cells and african
green monkey kidney CV-1P cells. The culture supernatant 
fluids were assayed by a trapping Elisa (described below) for the
secretion of a human kappa light chain containing IgG4
immunoglobulin. 
     
    
    [0047]
     An Elisa was developed for the quantitation of the
amounts of a 1B4 recombinant antibody expressed in
conditioned mammalian cell growth medium. Immulon-2
(Dynatech Labs.) 96-well plates are coated overnight with a
5µg/ml solution of mouse anti-human k chain constant domain
monoclonal antibody (cat. #MC009, The Binding Site, Inc., San
Diego, CA) in 0.1M NaHCO 3  buffer (pH 8.2) at 4°C, and blocked
with 1% bovine serum (BSA) in 0.1M NaHCO 3  for 1h at 25°C.
After this and all subsequent steps, washing was performed
with phosphate buffered saline (PBS). The wells are then
challenged with conditioned medium containing recombinant
anti-CD18 antibody, or with predetermined quantities of human
IgG4 purified by protein A Sepharose® (Pharmacia Fine
Chemicals) chromatography from human IgG4 myeloma
serum (cat. # BP026,The Binding Site, Inc.). All samples are
diluted in PBS containing 0.05% Tween®-20. 100µl aliquots are
incubated for 1h at 37°C in triplicate, and standard calibration
curves are constructed using IgG4 concentrations ranging
from 10 ng/ml to 100 ng/ml. Bound and fully assembled human
IgG4 (either native or recombinant "veneered"1B4 human IgG4
constructs) are detected with 100µl aliquots of a 1:500 dilution of
mouse anti-human IgG4 Fc monoclonal antibody conjugated to
alkaline phosphatase (cat #05-3822, Zymed Laboratories, Inc.)
in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) containing 1% BSA. After
incubation for 1h at 37°C and subsequent washing, the
quantities of bound conjugate are detected by incubating all
samples with a 1 mg/ml solution of p-nitrophenyl phosphate in
0.1 M  2,2'amino-methyl-propanediol buffer, pH 10.3, for 30 min
at 25°C. The adsorbance of the wells is determined with a UV
Max ELISA plate reader (Molecular Devices) set at 405 nm. All 
supernatant fluids contain this immunoglobulin, though in
various amounts. The antibody secreted by the transfected 293
cells is concentrated by protein A chromatography and the
concentrations of the recombinant human "veneered" anti-CD18
antibody determined by the trapping Elisa described
above, is used to compete with the binding of radiolabeled
murine 1B4 to the CD18 ligand on the surface of activated
human PMNs. Affinities of various anti-CD18 antibody
constructs are determined using a competitive  125 I-m1B4
soluble binding assay with stimulated human
polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs). Purified murine anti-CD18
monoclonal antibody (50 ug; m1B4) is iodinated using
chloramine-T (Hunter, W.M. and Greenwood, F.C., Nature
 194 : 495-496, 1962), and the radiolabeled antibody purified using
a Bio-Sil® TSK250 (Biorad, Richmond, CA) gel filtration HPLC
column (which fractionates proteins in the range of 1-300 x 10 3 
daltons) equilibrated in 0.1M phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. Effluent
radioactivity is monitored with an in-line detector (Beckman
Model 170; Beckman, Fullerton,CA) and total protein measured
at OD 280  with a Kratos Spectroflow 757 detector (Kratos,
Mawah, N.J.). A single  125 I-m1B4 peak composed of
coincident OD 280  and radioactivity tracings characteristically
elutes 6 minutes, 30 seconds following sample injection.
Specific activity of the product is generally about 10µCi/µg
protein, and 97-99% of the counts are precipitable with 10%
trichloroacetic acid. The binding of this radiolabeled antibody is
assessed on human PMNs purified on a discontinuous
Ficoll/Hypaque gradient (English, D. and Anderson, B.R., J.
Immunol. Methods  5 : 249-255, 1974) and activated with 100
ng/ml phorbol myristate for 20 minutes at 37°C (Lo  et   al ., J.
Exp. Med.  169 : 1779-1793, 1989). To determine the avidity of
antibodies for CD18 molecules on the PMN surface, about 1 x
105 activated PMNs are incubated in a buffer such as Hanks 
balanced salt solution containing 20 mM Hepes (pH 7.2), 0.14
units aprotinin (Sigma Chemical Co.) and 2% human serum
albumin (binding buffer) containing 1.3 ng  125 I-m1B4 (2.8 x 10 -11 M)
in the presence of increasing concentrations of unlabeled
m1B4 antibody (10 -7  to 10 -15 M) in a 300 ul reaction volume for
about 1 h at about 4°C with constant agitation. Cell bound 1B4 is
separated from the unbound antibody by centrifugation through
a 0.5M sucrose cushion (4,800 x g, 3 minutes); the tubes are
frozen on dry ice, and the tips cut off and counted with an LKB
gamma counter. The IC 50  of the anti-CD18 antibody for the
inhibition of  125 I-m1B4 antibody binding is calculated using a
four parameter fitter program (Rodbard, D, Munson, P.J., and
DeLean, In, "Radioimmunoassay and Related Procedures in
Medicine", International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna, vol
I,469-504, 1978). The affinity of the "veneered" anti-CD18
antibody for the CD18 ligand is determined in a similar manner
using murine  125 I-mlB4 antibody and increasing quantities, as
determined by the trapping Elisa, of unlabeled "veneered" anti-CD18
antibody. The results of the binding assays are shown in
Figure 13 and indicate that the avidity of the "veneered" heavy
chain and light chain recombinant 1B4 antibody is equivalent
to that of the murine 1B4 monoclonal antibody. 
     
    
    [0048]
     The "veneered" heavy and light chain expression vectors
were co-transfected into CV1P monkey kidney cells using 20 µg
of each plasmid to prepare 2 mL of the calcium phosphate
precipitated solution. One mL was placed in the medium
overlaying each 100 mm dish of CV1P cells. After 4 hr at 37°C
the medium was replaced with 1 mL of 15% glycerol in 1 x HBS
(Hepes buffered salt). Following the 3 min glycerol shock, 10
mL of PBS as added, the cell monolayers were aspirated,
washed once with 10 mL of PBS, and re-fed with fresh medium
(DMEM + 10% heat inactivated new born calf serum)
containing 200 µg of hygromycin B and 800 µg of G418 per mL. 
Cloning cylinders (Fishney, In, Culture of Animal Cells, Alan
R. Liss, Inc. New York, 1983) were used to isolate individual
colonies prior to their expansion and subsequent assay for
productivity. Two clones, #11 and #48, were found to express
sufficient amounts of v1B4 to warrant their expansion and
ultimate accessioning. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
