
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Detailed Description of the Invention: 
 Technical Field of the Invention: 
   
    
    [0001]
     The present invention relates to extremely excellent, frozen
dough-resistant practical baker's yeast and high-sugar dough-resistant
practical baker's yeast. Conventional frozen dough-resistant baker's
yeast and high-sugar dough-resistant baker's yeast have heretofore been
produced, over which the frozen dough-resistant practical baker's yeast
and the high-sugar dough-resistant practical baker's yeast of the invention
are significantly excellent. Frozen dough as produced through the process
of preparing dough with the frozen dough-resistant baker's yeast of the
invention followed by incubating and freezing it is resistant to long-term
frozen storage of 2 weeks or longer, from which is produced good bread.
The long-term stored, frozen dough gives, when thawed and baked, bread which
is comparable to or better than that from the frozen dough as prepared with
the conventional frozen dough-resistant baker's yeast and stored long.
Specifically, in the invention in which the ATH1 gene in practical baker's
yeast having various excellent characteristics but not having resistance 
to frozen dough is inactivated, it has become possible to make the practical
baker's yeast have frozen dough resistance that is comparable to or higher
then that of ordinary commercially-available, frozen dough-resistant
baker's yeast, and even to make it have high-sugar dough resistance.
Therefore, considering the fact that frozen dough generally has a high sugar
content, the frozen dough-resistant/high-sugar dough-resistant, practical
baker's yeast of the invention greatly contributes to developments in the
frozen dough industry. 
   Prior Art: 
   
    
    [0002]
     Regarding the frozen dough resistwce of yeast of  Saccharomyces
cerevisiae , a technique of gene manipulation to ensure the accumulation
of trehalose in the yeast was reported by Helmut Holzer et al. of the
Freiburg University (see J.B.C., Vol. 268, No. 7, 1993). This technique
was applied to practical strains, and a patent application was filed for
"Frozen Dough-Resistant, Practical Baker's Yeast" (Japanese Patent
Application No. Hei-8-297886). The report and the patent application
relate to the NTH1 gene (neutral trehalase gene) of that yeast. 
     
    
    [0003]
     After that, the same attempt was made on a gene ATH1 (acidic trehalase
gene). This gene was cloned and analyzed by Momoca Destruelle, et al. of
the Freiburg University (see Yeast, Vol. 11, 1995). John Kim, et al. of 
the California University found that the trehalose accumulation in an ATH1
gene-disrupted strain is significantly increased, and they suggested the
practical use of that strain in baker's yeast because of its freezing
resistance and drying resistance (see Applied and Environmental
Microbiology, Vol. 62, No. 5, 1996). However, they used laboratory strains
in their studies, and nothing is suggested for the usefulness of the ATH1
gene disruption in practical baker's yeast. In other words, their studies
were not confirmed in the practical baking industry, and at present, the
industrial usefulness of the ATH1 gene-disrupted strain is not confirmed
at all. 
     
    
    [0004]
     The matter to be specifically noted herein is that laboratory strains
and practical baker's yeast strains greatly differ in their behavior. For
example, as so mentioned in the report of Takano, et al. of the National
Food Research Institude, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
of Japan (red in the Meeting of the Food Engineering Society of Japan in
1997), and in the specification of Japanese Patent Application Hei-8-297896
for "Frozen Dough-Resistant, Practical Baker's Yeast", laboratory strains
and practical baker's yeast strains greatly differ in the effect of NTH1
gene disruption thereon. Naturally, therefore, it is anticipated that
laboratory strains and practical baker's yeast strains will greatly differ 
in the effect of ATH1 gene disruption thereon, and it is rather anticipated
that the effect on laboratory strains could not be exhibited on practical
baker's yeast strains. 
     
    
    [0005]
     The neutral trehalase encoded by the NTH1 gene exists in cytoplasm,
and its action has been clarified; while the acidic trehalase encoded by
the ATH1 gene exists in vacuole, and its action still remains no more than
speculation. Accordingly, the two could not be discussed on the same level,
and it must be said that the matter as to whether or not the ATH1 gene
disruption could be effective even in practical strains like the NTH1 gene
disruption therein is still quite unknown. 
     
    
    [0006]
     When practical baker's yeast is improved to thereby make it have
specific capabilities in conventional breeding methods comprising mating
different types of strains, their intrinsic and favorable properties are
often sacrificed. 
     
    
    [0007]
     Where the yeast of  Saccharomyces   cerevisiae  is used as practical
baker's yeast, its source shall be a species of  Saccharomyces   cerevisiae ,
and, in addition, the yeast must satisfy various requirements needed in
its practical use. For example, the indispensable requirements for the
yeast are as follows: 1. In order to cultivate it in an industrial scale,
the yeast must grow well in blackstrap molasses media that are generally 
used for mass-cultivating baker's yeast (that is, the growth rate of the
yeast is high, and the yield thereof is large), the baker's yeast having
grown in the media must be efficiently separated therefrom, and the
efficiency in the dehydrating step in the process of forming the thus-separated
baker's yeast into commercial products must be high (in that step,
used is a specific device of a so-called dehydrator). 2. The products could
keep the yeast activity (dough-expanding activity) during long-term cold
storage (generally, for a few weeks), they are hardly softened during the
storage, they are white without adsorbing blackstrap molasses. Apart from
those, the yeast is required to have capabilities compatible with various
baking methods. 
     
    
    [0008]
     For the reasons noted above, there is almost no possibility that
laboratory strains not subjected to the screening for practical baker's
yeast could be directly used as those for practical baker's yeast. In
general, it is unusual that the requirements noted above are rarely governed
by one gene but are often defined by a plurality of genes. In addition,
there are known few studies relating to the relationship between the
properties of practical baker's yeast and the genes constituting tie yeast. 
     
    
    [0009]
     Being different from laboratory strains, most strains for baker's
yeast are polyploidal and hardly form spores. Tnerefore, even the 
application of the breeding method of mating/spore separation that is based
on classic breeding systems and is generally applied to laboratory strains,
to baker's yeast strains is extremely difficult. Good baker's yeast shall
exclusively rely on the screening of spontaneous mutants from ordinary
strains that have been practically used in the art for many years, or on
the screening thereof from the natural world. Gunge, et al. first applied
a classic breeding method to baker's yeast in their rare-mating method (see
Genetics, Vol. 70, 1972), and after that, one example of practical
application of the method was first descried in the specification of a
patent application filed in 1982 for " Saccharomyces  species FD612" (see
Japanese Patent Publication Hei-1-16155). 
   Problems to be Solved by the Invention: 
   
    
    [0010]
     However, as so mentioned hereinabove, one necessary property of
baker's yeast is governed by a large number of genes. Therefore, where
strains having good properties of baker's yeast are transformed to thereby
make them have specific capabilities according to classic breeding methods,
their favorable and intrinsic characters are often lost. For example, when
baker's yeast capable of producing good bread taste is bred through
mating/spore separation for making it have freezing resistance or
high-sugar dough resistance, the ability of the yeast to produce good bread 
taste is often attenuated. In that case, an extremely large number of
strains of the posterity must be screened for the strains capable of
producing relatively good bread taste. The subject matter of the present
invention is to make baker's yeast strain have frozen dough resistance or
high-sugar dough resistance while leaving the strain to still keep its
favorable and intrinsic properties. 
     
    
    [0011]
     In ordinary gene manipulation, used is haploid strains. However,
most baker's yeasts now used in Japan are diploid. This is because, as
compared with haploid ones, diploid and higher polyploid strains are larger
in size and grow better, and therefore they are more easily satisfy the
practical requirements noted above. The strain group described in the
patent application for "Frozen Dough-Resistant Practical Baker's Yeast"
(Japanese Patent Application Hei-8-297886) was developed for the purpose
of compensating for the gap. The strains described were previously so
tested that they could exhibit various excellent properties when they are
mated in suitable combination to give diploids. 
     
    
    [0012]
     The conventional gene manipulation of disrupting the ATH1 gene
(acidic trehalase gene) in yeast may produce the increase in the amount
of trehalose to be formed in the resulting yeast, but frozen dough-resistant,
practical baker's yeast capable of finally giving delicious 
bread could not be obtained as yet. Given this situation, one object of
the invention is to construct frozen dough-resistant, practical baker's
yeast capable of finally giving delicious bread, to produce excellent
frozen dough, and to produce delicious bread by thawing, fermenting and
baking the frozen dough. 
     
    
    [0013]
     On the other hand, it is known that the dough-expanding force of
practical baker's yeast generally lowers when the sugar content of dough
is larger than 5 % relative to the wheat flour content thereof. In practical
formula of dough for commercial bread products, the sugar concentration
may be 40 % or more. Yeast of which the fermenting power is lowered little
even in dough having a high sugar concentration (high-sugar dough) is herein
referred to as high-sugar dough-resistant yeast. High-sugar dough-resistant,
practical baker's yeast is known. However, the intracellular
substances in the yeast, which could be the index for the high-sugar dough
resistance of the yeast, are not analyzed as yet, and even though analyzed,
there is known no study report in which the analyzed data are associated
with the bread-producing capabilities of the yeast. Given this situation,
another object of the invention is to disrupt the ATH1 gene in a strain
thereby increasing the intracellular trehalose content of the resulting
strain and increasing the intracellular osmotic pressure in the strain for 
positively constructing high-sugar dough-resistant, practical baker's
yeast, to produce excellent high-sugar dough, and to produce delicious
bread (sweetened buns, etc.) from the high-sugar dough. 
   Means for Solving the Problems: 
   
    
    [0014]
     Even though freezing-resistant yeast could be constructed trough
ATH1 gene disruption, frozen dough-resistant practical baker's yeast or
high-sugar dough-resistant practical baker's yeast capable of producing
delicious bread could not be obtained as yet. We, the present inventors
desired to modify practical baker's yeast having excellent properties but
not having resistance to frozen dough or to high-sugar dough into frozen
dough-resistant/high-sugar dough-resistant, practical baker's yeast still
having its original excellent properties and additionally having frozen
dough resistance/high-sugar dough resistance that is comparable to or
higher than that of ordinary, commercially-available freezing-resistant
yeast. For this purpose, we analyzed in detail starting yeast strains,
frozen dough or high-sugar dough, and even final bread from the dough in
various experiments and, as a result, have completed the invention. 
     
    
    [0015]
     The invention relates to a set of ATH1 gene-disrupted, haploid yeasts
as produced through gene manipulation of disrupting the ATH1 gene in a set
of haploid yeasts of which the original hybridized diploid is practical 
baker's yeast. 
     
    
    [0016]
     The invention also relates to a diploid or higher polyploid, frozen
dough-resistant/high-sugar dough-resistant, practical baker's yeast as
produced through mating with one or more ATH1 gene-disrupted, haploid
yeasts produced through gene manipulation of disrupting the ATH1 gene in
a haploid yeast of which the diploid is practical baker's yeast. 
     
    
    [0017]
     At least one haploid yeast to be used in that mating most be the ATH1
gene-disrupted, haploid yeast, but may be combined with yeasts with no gene
disruption. The invention further relates to frozen dough-resistant/high-sugar
dough-resistant, practical baker's yeast-containing,
frozen or high-sugar dough, as produced by preparing dough with
a diploid or higher polyploid, frozen dough-resistant/high-sugar
dough-resistant, practical baker's yeast that is produced through mating
with one or more ATH1 gene-disrupted, haploid yeasts produced through gene
manipulation of disrupting the ATH1 gene in a haploid yeast of which the
diploid is practical baker's yeast. (1) The non-frozen dough is then
incubated and thereafter frozen to give the frozen dough. Optionally, the
frozen dough is thawed, fermented and baked to give delicious bread. (2)
The high-sugar dough is directly fermented and baked also to give delicious
bread.  
   Brief Description of the Drawings : 
   
    
    [0018]
     Fig. 1 shows a process of constructing a vector for ATH1 gene
disruption. 
     
    
    [0019]
     Fig. 2 is a conceptual view showing ATH1 gene disruption. 
     
    
    [0020]
     Fig. 3 shows the confirmation of ATH1 gene disruption, in which the
 lane  1 indicates a molecular weight marker, the        lanes        2, 4, 6 and 8 indicate
PCR products of DNA derived from    strains    7, 21, 18 and 19, respectively,
and the        lanes        3, 5, 7 and 9 indicate PCR products of DNA derived from strains
7dA, 21dA, 18dA and 19dA, respectively. 
     
    
    [0021]
     Fig. 4(A) shows the time-dependent variation in the acidic trehalase
activity of each strain of T118 and A318 in culture; and Fig. 4(B) shows
the time-dependent variation in the intracellular trehalose content of each
strain of T118 and A318 in culture. 
     
    
    [0022]
     Fig. 5(A) shows the time-dependent variation in the acidic trehalase
activity of each strain of T128 and A328 in culture; and Fig. 5(B) shows
the time-dependent variation in the intracellular trehalose content of each
strain of T128 and A328. 
     
    
    [0023]
     Fig. 6 shows the time-dependent variation in the trehalose content
of each strain of T118 and A318 in fermentation. 
     
    
    [0024]
     Fig. 7 shows the time-dependent variation in the trehalose content 
of each strain of T128 and A328 in fermentation. 
     
    
    [0025]
     Fig. 8 shows the time-dependent variation in the trehalose content
of each strain of commercially-available yeasts in fermentation. 
     
    
    [0026]
     Fig. 9 shows the data of the gaseous volume of each low-sugar dough
sample as obtained through fermography, for which each dough sample
comprising a different yeast was incubated for 60 minutes, then frozen and
stored for 1 to 3 weeks, thawed, and thereafter subjected to fermography
at 30°C for 120 minutes. 
     
    
    [0027]
     Fig. 10 shows the data of the gaseous volume of high-sugar dough
samples, which were obtained in the same manner as in Fig. 9. 
   Modes of Carrying out the Invention: 
 1. (Screening for haploid yeasts of which the diploids are practical
baker's yeasts, and genetic marking) 
   
    
    [0028]
     In the invention, the screening of yeast strains for those to be
subjected to gene manipulation is indispensable. First are selected
haploid yeast strains, which must be identified as to whether they are
a-type ones or α-type ones. Where a selected haploid yeast could be
conjugated with a previously prepared α-type haploid yeast within a few
hours in the culture of the two in a ratio of 1/1 and where the conjugation
could be confirmed with a microscope, the haploid yeast is identified as 
an a-type one. On the other hand, where the conjugation of a selected
haploid yeast with a previously prepared a-type haploid yeast in the culture
of the two in a ratio of 1/1 could be confirmed, the haploid yeast is
identified as an α-type one. In laboratory experiments, the thus-identified
haploid yeasts could be subjected to the next step of genetic
marking. In constructing practical baker's yeasts, however, a step of
screening the identified haploid yeasts is indispensable prior to the
genetic marking step. The screening step may be effected in the manner
mentioned below. 
     
    
    [0029]
     An a-type or α-type haploid yeast is mated will an α-type or a-type
haploid to construct an a/α-type diploid yeast. Then, in the first stage,
the resulting diploid strains are screened in a mass-cultivation test such
as that mentioned hereinabove, which is based on the possibility of
industrial production of the strains. Next, in the second stage, the
strains thus cultivated and screened in the previous test are further
screened for those that satisfy the requirements of commercial products
also mentioned hereinabove. Finally, the strains thus passed the two-stage
screening are cultivated, and the thus-cultivated strains are used
in producing different types of bread. In this final step, the strains
with which excellent bread samples were produced are selected. Thus, the 
yeasts used in preparing the excellent bread samples are known, and they
are determined to be haploid yeasts to be subjected to gene manipulation. 
     
    
    [0030]
     There are various types of bread, including, for example, loaves,
rolls, croissants, French bread and rolls, and buns, for all of which
diploid yeasts as constructed from various haploid yeasts are tested and
tasted. Depending on the type of the haploid yeasts to be mated, as to
whether they are a-type ones or α-type ones, the characteristics of the
bread to be prepared by baking frozen dough or high-sugar dough that
comprises the mated diploid yeast greatly vary. Therefore, the screening
of the suitable haploid yeast to be subjected to gene manipulation is
extremely difficult. However, in order to obtain the intended, frozen
dough-resistant or high-sugar dough-resistant, practical baker's yeast,
this screening step is indispensable. 
     
    
    [0031]
     Gene manipulation of yeast requires genetic markers. Practical
baker's yeast has no marker, and where it is subjected to gene manipulation,
employable are markers except those for the genes of the yeast, such as
chemical-resistant markers and the like, which, however, are unfavorable
from the viewpoint of the safety in the gene manipulation. Haploid strains
to be subjected to gene manipulation within the range of their self-cloning
require genetic markers. In that case, if the yeast to be processed is 
mutated with chemicals or the like, it will lose its intrinsic favorable
properties. For this, therefore, it is desirable to employ a screening
method for spontaneous mutants. For example, as the marker genes,
preferred are URA3, LYS2, ADE2 and the like for easy screening for the
intended defective strains. 
     
    
    [0032]
     To introduce a gene marker, ura3 (URA3-defective strain) into a
haploid strain, cells of the strain are screened in a 5-fluoro-orotic
acid-containing medium. Briefly, cells of a haploid strain are cultivated
in an YPD liquid medium, centrifuged, and washed with a physiological saline
solution. About 10 8  cells thus cultivated are applied onto a 5-fluoro-orotic
acid-containing medium (0.7 % YEAST NITROGEN BASE (DIFCO), 2 %
glucose, 0.1 % 5-fluoro-orotic acid, 0.05 % uracil, 2 % agar) and cultivated
thereon at 30°C for 3 days, and the cells growing on the medium to give
colonies thereon are selected. The cells having grown on the medium do
not have URA3 gene, as having been spontaneously mutated. Such URA3-defective
cells are obtained at a frequency of one cell per 10 6  to 10 7  cells.
Those URA3-defective cells could not grow on an uracil-free medium, but
could grow thereon only after having been transformed with an URA3-containing
plasmid, such as YCp50 or the like. Therefore, through the
transformation of those cells, the defect of URA3 therein can be confirmed.  
   2. (Cloning of acidic trehalase gene) 
   
    
    [0033]
     Cloning of acidic trehalase gene ATH1 may be attained for example,
in `an ordinary shot-gun cloning method based on the fact that ATH1
gene-defective strains could not grow in a medium comprising trehalose as
only one carbon source. However, since the full-length base sequence of
the chromosome of the yeast of  Saccharomyces   cerevisiae  was already known,
the cloning of the acidic trehalase gene ATH1 of which the sequence was
already clarified is generally effected through PCR (polymerase chain
reaction). For inactivating (disrupting) the gene, cloning of the
full-length gene is unnecessary, and a partial region of the gene may be
cloned. 
   3. (Construction of vector for ATH1 gene disruption, and disruption of
ATH1 gene) 
   
    
    [0034]
     The object of the disruption of the ATH1 gene in haploid yeasts is
to prevent the ATH1 gene from being expressed in the yeasts to give an acidic
trehalase which decomposes trehalose. For this, therefore, all or a part
of the gene sequence of the ATH1 gene is deleted. Preferably, in the
invention, the ATH1 gene in a haploid yeast is completely replaced with
URA3, or URA3 is inserted into the ATH1 gene thereby substantially
inactivating the ATH1 gene for disrupting the gene in the yeast.  
     
    
    [0035]
     First, a part of the amino acid-coding region of the ATH1 gene of
 Sequence Number  3 in the Sequence Listing is, after having been amplified
through PCR, inserted into an  E.   coli  vector, such as pGEM-T, then the
full-length URA3 gene of  Sequence Number  4 is inserted into the partial
region of the ATH1 gene in the vector. The resulting plasmid is
proliferated in  E.   coli  cells. From this plasmid, cleaved out is only the
DNA fragment of ATH1 gene (former half) - URA3 - ATH1 gene (latter half).
With the thus-isolated DNA fragment, thereafter transformed is a haploid
yeast, of which the diploid is a practical baker's yeast, by a lithium
acetate method. The DNA fragment, ATH1 gene (former half) - URA3 - ATH1
gene (latter half) in the haploid yeast is site-specifically recombined
with the ATH1 gene in the yeast, whereby the ATH1 gene is completely divided
into two, its former half and latter half, via URA3 therebetween, resulting
in that the gene is completely disrupted and is substantially inactivated.
 Sequence Number  5 indicates the amino acid-coding region of the ATH1 gene
as cleaved with URA3. 
   4. (Formation of Diploid) 
   
    
    [0036]
     The ATH1 gene-disrupted haploid yeast obtained herein is either an
a-type or α-type one, while having such necessary properties that its
diploid yeast can be a practical baker's yeast. In other words, only the 
ATH1 gene is disrupted in the haploid yeast through the gene disruption,
while the other genes in the resulting ATH1 gene-disrupted haploid yeast
are not changed at all and still maintain their intrinsic properties. In
the invention, one or more ATH1 gene-disrupted haploid yeasts as prepared
through the process of disrupting the ATH1 gene of a haploid yeast, of which
the diploid is a practical baker's yeast, are mated with any other haploid
yeasts to give diploid or higher polyploid, frozen dough-resistant/high-sugar
dough-resistant, practical baker's yeasts. 
   Examples: 
 Example 1: 
 (Screening for haploid yeast of which the diploid is practical baker's
yeast) 
   
    
    [0037]
     25 stock cultures of wild haploid yeasts were identified as to whether
they are a-type ones or α-type ones, and all of these were tested to know
as to whether or not their diploids could be practical baker's yeasts. As
a result of the test, 8 strains as in Table 1 were selected. These 8 strains
were subjected to ATH1 gene disruption according to fine method mentioned
below, by which the ATH1 gene existing therein was disrupted. Before and
after the gene disruption, the acidic trehalase activity of each strain
was measured.  
     
    
    [0038]
     The data obtained are shown in Table 1, from which it was confirmed
that the acidic trehalase activity of the ATH1 gene-disrupted strains was
significantly lowered. That is, the data indicate the disruption of the
ATH1 gene in those strains. 
         Comparison between the ATH activity of haploid yeast strain (wild strain), of which the diploid is practical baker's yeast, and that of ATH1 gene-disrupted strain       Sample   Acidic Trehalase Activity (mU/mg protein)       2 (ATH1)   6.13       2dA (ath1)   0.20       7 (ATH1)   4.96       7dA (ath1)   0.25       14 (ATH1)   8.55       14dA (ath1)   0.18       21 (ATH1)   5.14       21dA (ath1)   1.31       12 (ATH1)   9.01       12dA (ath1)   0.82       13 (ATH1)   6.22       13dA (ath1)   0.06       18 (ATH1)   8.55       18dA (ath1)   1.36       19 (ATH1)   9.06       19dA (ath1)   0.67           
   (Cloning of ATH1 gene) 
   
    
    [0039]
     A partial sequence of ATH1 gene was cloned, using a Promega's pGEM-T
vector system. The outline of the cloning is shown in Fig. 1. 
     
    
    [0040]
     Precisely, based on the known base sequence of ATH1 gene (see Yeast,
Vol. 11, 1995), 20 bp primers of  Sequence Number  1 and  Sequence Number  2
were designed in an ordinary manner. A chromosomal DNA was extracted from
the yeast of  Saccharomyces   cerevisiae  T019, and purified. Using this DNA
as the template, along with the synthetic DNA primers of    Sequence Numbers   
1 and 2 noted above, a partial sequence of 1,150 base pairs between the
481st base and the 1,630th base in the coding region for ATH1 gene was
amplified through PCR. Next, the thus-amplified DNA fragment was purified
in an ordinary manner, and ligated with a pGEM-T vector by the use of a
T4 DNA ligase. Thus was obtained a plasmid pCI1. This plasmid pCI1 was
introduced into cells of  E.   coli  (transformation) in an ordinary manner,
amplified, and purified. Next, the restriction enzyme HindIII-recognition
site, which is only one in the ATH1 gene partial sequence in
the purified plasmid, was cleaved with the enzyme HindIII, On the other
hand, a known plasmid YEp24 having URA3 gene was cleaved with the enzyme
HindIII to isolate 1,166 bp DNA fragment containing the full-length of URA3
gene from it. After having been purified in an ordinary manner, the DNA 
fragment of URA3 gene was ligated with the HindIII-cleaved pCI1 to construct
a plasmid pCY1 for ATH1 gene disruption. 
   (Formation of ATH1 gene-disrupted haploid) 
   
    
    [0041]
     According to the method mentioned hereinabove, an a-type haploid
yeast (wild strain) was processed to be a strain of ura3, and then
transformed with the plasmid pCY1 (this is for ATH1 gene disruption) that
had been cleaved with a restriction enzyme PvuII, according to a lithium
acetate process. The non-transformed strain requires uracil in its
growth, and the transformant was identified by its character not reguiring
uracil in its growth. 
     
    
    [0042]
     In the same manner, an α-type haploid yeast (wild strain) was
processed to be a strain of ura3 according to the method mentioned
hereinabove. On the other hand, the plasmid pCY1 for ATH1 gene disruption
was cleaved with a restriction enzyme PvuII, and the DNA fragment comprising
the ATH1 partial sequence and URA3 was isolated and purified. The ura3
strain was transformed with this DNA according to a lithium acetate process.
The non-transformed strain requires uracil in its growth, and the
transformant was identified by its character not requiring uracil in its
growth. (Fig. 2). 
   (Confirmation of ATH1 gene disruption) 
   
    
    [0043]
     The ATH1 gene disruption was theoretically confirmed through PCR. 
     
    
    [0044]
     Precisely, the total chromosomal DNA. was extracted from both the wild
strain and the gene-disrupted strain, and each DNA was amplified with the
primers of  Sequence Number  1 and  Sequence Number  2, and the thus-amplified
DNAs were compared with each other with respect to their length. The data
are shown in Fig. 2. Theoretically, the DNA fragment from the wild strain
is amplified to have 1,150 bp, while that from the gene-disrupted strain
is to have 2,316 bp. The theoretical data correspond to the data measured,
which supports the gene disruption. 
   (Confirmation of ATH1 gene inactivation) 
   
    
    [0045]
     To confirm the ATH1 gene disruption, the acidic trehalase activity
of both wild strains (ATH1, in which the ATH1 gene is not disrupted) and
ATH1 gene-disrupted strains (ath1) was measured. Precisely, 18- test
tubes each charged with 5ml of an YPD medium (1 % yeast extract, 2 % peptone,
2 % glucose) were prepared, in which were separately planted one platinum
loop of cells of each wild strain and one platinum loop of cells of each
ATH1 gene-disrupted strain, and cultivated therein at 30°C for 48 hours
with shaking. The acidic trehalase activity of the thus-cultivated cells
was measured in an ordinary manner. The data obtained are in Table 1. The
acidic trehalase activity of the gene-disrupted strains was obviously 
lowered, as compared with that of the non-disrupted wild strains, and was
nearly 0 (zero). This supports the ATH1 gene inactivation in the disrupted
strains. 
   Example 2: 
 (Mating of a-type haploid yeast and α-type haploid yeast) 
   
    
    [0046]
     The mating matrix in Table 2 shows various combinations of wild
strains and pCY1-processed, ATH1 gene-disrupted strains. 
   
     
    
    [0047]
     In Table 2, the strains in the uppermost row are all a-type ones,
while those in the leftmost column are all α-type ones. In this, the strains
with "d-A" are gene-disrupted ones as processed with pCY1; while those with
no "d-A" are wild strains. Each one in the uppermost row was mated with
each one in the leftmost column to obtain 64 diploid yeasts, T101 through
T128 and A301 through A361, in all as in Table 2. 
     
    
    [0048]
     The mating was effected as follows: First, a pair of a-type strain
and α-type strain were separately cultivated and proliferated in YPD media
at 30°C for one day. Nearly the same number of the proliferated cells of
the both strains were put into a fresh YPD medium and further cultivated
therein at 30°C for 12 hours. Then, a suitable amount of the thus-cultivated
cells were applied onto a YPD-agar medium, and cultivated
thereon at 30°C for one or two days. Relatively large colonies formed were
taken out. It was confirmed that the cells in those colonies have no
conjugating ability and that they are larger than the haploid cells through
microscopic observation. Thus, the formation of diploid yeast cells was
confirmed. 
   Example 3: 
 (Cultivation of diploid, frozen dough-resistant/high-sugar dough-resistant,
practical yeast strains) 
   
    
    [0049]
     Diploid, frozen dough-resistant/high-sugar dough-resistant,
practical yeast strains were cultivated in 30-liter jar fermenters under
the condition mentioned below. 
   
 30-Liter jar culture 
 
   
    
    [0050]
     
 
 
 
 
   
 Seed Culture 
 Main Culture 
 
 
 Saccharide (in terms of sucrose) 
 1035 g 
 1400 g 
 
 
 Urea 
 103 g 
 140 g 
 
 
 Monosodium phosphate dihydrate 
 20.7 g 
 28 g 
 
 
 Seed yeast (wet) 
 20 g(1) 
 420 g(2) 
 
 
   30-Liter jar: 
 
 
   Maker: Oriental Bioservice KK 
 
 
   Name: Fermenter Control System MC-10 
 
 
   Volume: 30 liters 
 
 
   Revolution of stirrer: 600 rpm 
 
 
   Aeration: 16 liters/min 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
    [0051]
     All the tested strains gave an yield of from 120 to 140 %, relative
to the saccharide used, of the yield given by the commercially-available
baker's yeast strain as cultivated in the same manner. The data verify
that those strains can be cultivated on an industrial scale, and that the
ATH1 gene disruption in those strains did not interfere with the
requirements including the cell growability and the storage stability
necessary to practical baker's yeast. 
   (Time-dependent variation in trehalose content and trehalase activity of
strain in liquid culture) 
   
    
    [0052]
     The cultivation process employed herein could be divided into two
stages, one being a logarithmic growth phase stage and the other being a
stationary phase stage. Of 64 strains in Table 2 above, cells of four
strains of T118, T128 and their ATH1 gene-disrupted strains, A318 and A328
being cultivated under the condition noted above were sampled in the
initial, middle and last stages in each phase, and their acidic trehalase
activity (A) and trehalose content (B) were measured. The data obtained
are shown in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5. As in these, the acidic trehalase activity
of each gene-disrupted strain was nearly 0 in every stage in culture. The
data further verify the ATH1 gene inactivation in those gene-disrupted 
strains. 
     
    
    [0053]
     Strains T118 and T128 were named  Saccharomyces   cerevisiae  T118 and
 Saccharomyces   cerevisiae  T128, respectively, and were deposited on
September 3, 1997 in the international depository authority, the National
Institute of Bioscience and Human-Technology, Agency of Industrial Science
and Technology of Japan, for FERM BP-6096 and FERM BP-6097, respectively,
according to the Budapest Treaty. Their ATH1 gene-disrupted strains A318
and A328 were named  Saccharomyces   cerevisiae  A318 and  Saccharomyces 
 cerevisiae  A328, respectively, and were deposited on August 8, 1997 in the
same international depository authority for FERM BP-6039 and FERM BP-6040,
respectively, according to the Budapest Treaty. 
     
    
    [0054]
     Comparing the wild strain T118 and its ATH1 gene-disrupted strain
A318, it is known that the gene disruption obviously resulted in the
increase in the trehalose content of the gene-disrupted strain in the final
stage of the cell culture, as in the literature noted above, and the
trehalose content of the gene-disrupted strain was about 2 times that of
the wild strain. On the contrary, when the wild strain T128 is compared
with its ATH1 gene-disrupted strain A328, it is known that the acidic
trehalase activity of the ATH1 gene-disrupted strain A328 was lowered to
nearly 0 (zero) but that its trehalose content in the final stage of the 
cell culture was nearly the same as that of the wild strain. In the test
of practical baker's yeast strains for their capabilities, generally used
are the cells having been cultivated in feeding culture as a simulation
of industrial-scale culture, for example, in the manner mentioned above.
In the test, the intracellular trehalose content could be 8 +/- 2 % or so,
relative to the dry cells, and the trehalose content of the wild strain
T118 somewhat differs from that of practical baker's yeast strain generally
used in the art. As so mentioned hereinabove, most laboratory yeast strains
could not apply to the feeding culture system. If, however, they are
intentionally cultivated in the feeding culture system test, while
neglecting the production efficiency in the test, their trehalose content
will fall between 2 and 4 % or so, which significantly differs from the
trehalose content of practical strains. In the test of other practical
baker's yeast strains shown in Table 2, the ATH1 gene disruption in the
wild stratus, of which the trehalose content in the final stage of their
culture is nearly the same as that of laboratory strains, like T118,
resulted in significant increase in the amount of trehalose produced in
the gene-disrupted strains, but the effect of the ATH1 gene disruption in
the other wild strains of which the trehalose production is nearly the same
as that of practical baker's yeast generally used in the art was only small. 
In this point, the laboratory strains shall be differentiated from the
practical baker's yeast strain. 
   (Time-dependent variation in trehalose content of strain in liquid culture) 
   
    
    [0055]
     Strains having been cultivated in 30-liter jars each were put into
a device for measuring the CO 2  production capacity of the strain in liquid
culture, in which the time-dependent variation in the trehalose content
of the strain was measured according to the baker's yeast test method of
the Yeast Industry Association of Japan. The liquid culture ( sucrose  10
%, yeast concentration 2.5 %) was shaken In a liquid culture device for
a predetermined period of time. 20 ml of the total amount of the culture
was immediately suspended in 200 ml of cold water and then centrifuged to
wash the cells, which were again washed with 100 ml of cold water. The
finally obtained cells were suspended in 5 ml of cold water, and the
trehalose content of those cells was measured. The data obtained are shown
in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7. 
     
    
    [0056]
     The data of commercially-available yeasts tested in the same manner
as above are shown in Fig. 8. Those data verify that the trehalose content
retentiveness of each ATH1 gene-disrupted strain was significantly
increased. The increase in the trehalose content retention of the
gene-disrupted strains is significant, as compared with that in the 
trehalose content retentiveness of the commercially-available yeasts.
The increase was not seen in the laboratory strains, and was specifically
seen only in the practical baker's yeast strains. The data obtained herein
indicate the time-dependent reduction in the trehalose content of the cells
in liquid culture but not in dough. It is believed that the same phenomenon
as in the liquid culture occurs also in the incubation of pre-frozen dough.
Therefore, it is known that the trehalose content of ATH1 gene-disrupted
yeast cells in dough is kept high in the step of pre-freezing the dough.
The ATH1 gene-disrupted yeasts of the invention, of which the reduction
in the trehalose content was significantly prevented, retained a higher
trehalose content during incubation of pre-frozen dough. On the other
hand, while high-sugar dough comprising any of the ATH1 gene-disrupted
yeasts of the invention is fermented, the intracellular trehalose content
of the yeast in the dough is kept high and the intracellular osmotic pressure
in the yeast therein is also kept high all the time during the fermentation. 
   Example 4: 
 (Baking capabilities of yeast strain in dough for loaves and in dough for
buns ) 
   
    
    [0057]
     Practical baker's yeasts of diploid strains T118 and T128, and their
ATH1 gene-disrupted strains A318 and A328, all shown in Table 2, and also 
a commercially-available baker's yeast (manufactured by Oriental Yeast
Industry Co.) were used in preparing dough samples having the composition
mentioned below. The samples were tested in accordance with the baker's
yeast test method of the Yeast Industry Association of Japan, under the
baking condition shown in Table 3.
             Low-sugar Dough (for loaves)   High-sugar Dough       (Formulation)         Wheat flour     100   100         Sugar     5   30         Salt     2   0.5         Yeast     2   4         Shortening     5   6         Skim milk     0   2       Water   65   52         
                 Baking Condition       Mixing   L2,M2,↓ 
L2,M2,H2∼   L3,M2,↓ 
L2,M2,H1∼         Mixing Temperature     28° C     28° C         First Fermentation           30°C, 70  min     30°C, 70 min         Second Fermentation     30°C, 30  min     30°C, 30 min       Dividing, Rounding   450 g   450 g       Bench   35°C, 15 min   35°C, 20 min       Shaping   One loaf   One loaf       Fermentation in Roaster   38°C, RH 85 %, 
1.5 cm above loaf cup holder   38°C, RH 85 %, 
1.5 cm above loaf  cup holder         Baking           200°C, 25  min     200°C, 25 min           
     
    
    [0058]
     The data obtained are shown in Table 4 and Table 5 below. As is
obvious from the data in Table 4, the wild strains and the ATH1 gene-disrupted
strains produced nearly the same results in the loaf dough baking
test. 
         Loaf Dough Baking Test       Strain Used   Volume of Loaf (ml)   Relative Volume of Loaf (ml/g)       T118   1,780   4.7       A318   1,855   5.2       T128   1,905   5.3       A328   1,905   5.3       Commercially-available Yeast   1,855   5.1         
         Bun Dough Baking Test       Strain Used   Volume of Bun (ml)   Relative Volume of Bun (ml/g)       T118   1,275   3.1       A318   1,810   4.7       T128   1,510   4.0       A328   1,740   4.3       Commercially-available Yeast   1,750   4.5           
     
    
    [0059]
     As is obvious from the data in Table 5, the ATH1 gene-disrupted
strains A318 and A328 are significantly superior to the wild strains T118
and T128, respectively, with respect to the baking capability in the bun
dough baking test (high-sugar dough resistance). In addition, the baking
capability of the strains A318 and A328 is comparable to or better than
that of the commercially-available yeast. This supports the high
commercial value of the strains A318 and A328. 
   Example 5: 
 (Gas production of frozen dough) 
   
    
    [0060]
     Practical baker's yeasts of diploid strains T118 (FERM BP-6096) and
T128 (FERM BP-6097), and their ATH1 gene-disrupted strains A318 (FERM
BP-6039) and A328 (FERM BP-6040), all shown in Table 2 (Mating Matrix),
were used in preparing frozen dough samples. The samples were tested in
accordance with the baker's yeast test method of the Yeast Industry
Association of Japan.
             Sugarless Dough   Low-sugar Douch (for loaves)   High-sugar Dough       Wheat flour   100 g   100 g   100 g       Sugar   0 g   5 g   30 g       Salt   2 g   2 g   0.5 g        Yeast   4 g   4 g   6 g       Water   65 ml   65 ml   52 ml           
     
    
    [0061]
     Each yeast was added to the dough having any of the above-mentioned
compositions, mixed, and divided into plural portions each having a wheat
flour content of 30 g. These were incubated at 30°C for 60 minutes, shaped,
then frozen and stored for 1 to 3 weeks, and thereafter thawed, whereupon
the gaseous volume of each sample as thawed and kept at 30°C for 120 minutes
was measured through fermography. The data obtained are shown in Fig. 9
(low-sugar dough) and Fig. 10 (high-sugar dough). It is known that the
ATH1 gene-disrupted strain, A318 exhibited higher freezing resistance in
the low-sugar dough samples than the non-disrupted strain, T118, and that
the ATH1 gene-disrupted strain, A328 exhibited higher freezing resistance
in all dough samples than the non-disrupted strain, T128. Thus, these data
verify that the baker's yeast strains were made resistant to freezing
through the gene disruption. 
     
    
    [0062]
     In addition, from the data of high-sugar dough samples (Fig. 10),
admitted is better freezing resistance of the gene-disrupted strains.
This is because of the synergistic effect of the gene-disrupted strains
of which both the frozen dough resistance and the high-sugar dough
resistance were increased. 
   Effects of the Invention: 
   
    
    [0063]
     According to the invention, it is possible to obtain diploid or higher
polyploid, practical baker's yeasts with good frozen dough
resistance/high-sugar dough resistance, by mating one or more ATH1
gene-disrupted haploid yeasts as produced through gene manipulation of
disrupting the ATH1 gene of a haploid yeast, of which the diploid is
practical baker's yeast. 
     
    
    [0064]
     The frozen dough-resistant, practical baker's yeasts of the
invention has high trehalose-accumulating ability in their culture, and
has a reduced ability of trehalose degradation at fermentation process
brought by operation before freeze, whereby it possesses trehalose at high
concentrate, and the dough comprising the yeast of the invention shows a
long term stability of the frozen dough. In addition, since the
intracellular osmotic pressure in the yeasts of the invention is high, the
yeasts are resistant to high sugar concentration in dough, and are effective
for favorably fermenting high-sugar dough. 
   Sequence Listing: 
   
    
    [0065]
         Sequence Numbers    1 and 2 indicate  primer  1 and  primer  2, respectively,
for PCR.  Sequence Number  3 indicates the amino acid-coding region of ATH1
gene.  Sequence Number  4 indicates the full-length region of URA3 gene.
 Sequence Number  5 indicates the amino acid-coding region of ATH1 gene as 
cleaved with URA3 gene. 
     
    
    [0066]
     Tables 6 to 25 below show the sequences of  Sequence Numbers  1 to 5.  
   
 
 Annex to the description 
 
 
   
    
    [0067]
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
