
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0001]
     This invention is in the field of microbiology and molecular biology. More specifically, this invention pertains to nucleic acid fragments encoding enzymes useful for microbial production of cyclic ketocarotenoid compounds. 
   
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0002]
     Carotenoids are pigments that are ubiquitous throughout nature and synthesized by all photosynthetic organisms, and in some heterotrophic growing bacteria and fungi. Carotenoids provide color for flowers, vegetables, insects, fish and birds. Colors of carotenoid range from yellow to red with variations of brown and purple. As precursors of vitamin A, carotenoids are fundamental components in our diet and they play additional important role in human health. Because animals are unable to synthesize carotenoid  de novo,  they must obtain them by dietary means. Thus, manipulation of carotenoid production and composition in plants or bacteria can provide new or improved source for carotenoids. Industrial uses of carotenoids include pharmaceuticals, food supplements, animal feed additives, and colorants in cosmetics, to mention a few. 
     
    
    [0003]
     Industrially, only a few carotenoids are used for food colors, animal feeds, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics, despite the existence of more than 600 different carotenoids identified in nature. This is largely due to difficulties in production. Presently, most of the carotenoids used for industrial purposes are produced by chemical synthesis; however, these compounds are very difficult to make chemically ( Nelis and Leenheer, Appl. Bacteriol., 70:181-191 (1991 )). Natural carotenoids can either be obtained by extraction of plant material or by microbial synthesis; but, only a few plants are widely used for commercial carotenoid production and the productivity of carotenoid synthesis in these plants is relatively low. As a result, carotenoids produced from these plants are very expensive. One way to increase the productive capacity of biosynthesis would be to apply recombinant DNA technology (reviewed in  Misawa and Shimada, J. Biotech., 59:169-181 (1998 )). Thus, it would be desirable to produce carotenoids in non-carotenogenic bacteria and yeasts, thereby permitting control over quality, quantity, and selection of the most suitable and efficient producer organisms. The latter is especially important for commercial production economics (and therefore availability) to consumers. 
     
    
    [0004]
     Carotenoid ketolases are a class of enzymes that introduce keto groups to the ionone ring of the cyclic carotenoids, such as β-carotene, to produce ketocarotenoids. Examples of ketocarotenoids include astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, adonixanthin, adonirubin, echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, 4-keto-gamma-carotene, 4-keto-rubixanthin, 4-keto-torulene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-torulene, deoxyflexixanthin, and myxobactone. Two classes of ketolase, CrtW and CrtO, have been reported. The two classes have similar functionality yet appear to have arisen independently as they share very little sequence similarity. The CrtW is a symmetrically acting enzyme that adds keto-groups to both rings of β-carotene ( Hannibal et al., J. Bacteriol., 182: 3850-3853 (2000 )).  Fernandez-Gonzalez et al. (J. of Biol. Chem., 272: 9728-9733 (1997 )) reported that the CrtO ketolase enzyme from  Synechocystis  sp. PCC6803 adds a keto-group asymmetrically to only one of the two β-ionone rings of β-carotene. 
     
    
    [0005]
     Several examples of CrtW ketolases have been reported in variety of bacteria including  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  (   US 6,150, 130   ),  Bradyrhizobium sp.  (   US Patent Publication No. 20030087337   ), and  Brevundimonas aurantiacum  (   WO 02/079395   ). However, there is a need to identify additional novel CrtW ketolase genes useful for genetically engineering industrially suitable microorganisms for the production of valuable ketocarotenoids, such as canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. Additionally, there is a particularly important need to identify CrtW type ketolases having relatively low to moderate sequence homology (i.e. <65% nucleotide sequence identity) as coexpression of highly homologous genes tends to result genetic instability (i.e. undesirable homologous recombination). Expressing  crtW  genes having relatively low to moderate sequence homology should decrease the probability of genetic instability normally associated with expression of highly homologous genes. This is particularly important when developing genetically-stable commercial strains for optimal production of the desired product (i.e. ketocarotenoids). 
     
    
    [0006]
       CrtW  genes having divergent nucleotide sequences are most suitable for expressing multiple ketolases in a single recombinant host cell. This is especially important when ketolase activity becomes the rate-limiting step in the ketocarotenoid biosynthesis pathway. Increasing the number of  crtW  genes that can be simultaneously expressed in the production host is expected to increase ketocarotenoid production, assuming that the pool of available substrates is not limiting. 
     
    
    [0007]
     Additionally, CrtW ketolases tend to exhibit substrate flexibility. However, it can be envisioned that different CrtW ketolases may exhibit preferential activity towards one or more possible substrates (i.e. β-carotene versus zeaxanthin). Simultaneous expression of multiple CrtW ketolases, each selected based on their preferred substrate, may be used for optimal production of a desired ketocarotenoid. One of skill in the art may optimize production of the desired ketocarotenoid end product by analyzing the available substrate pool within the desired host cell, selectively expressing an appropriate combination of ketolases for optimal production of the desired ketocarotenoid. 
     
    
    [0008]
     The problem to be solved therefore is to identify and isolate novel  crtW  ketolase genes useful for engineering production of ketocarotenoids (i.e. canthaxanthin and astaxanthin). The present invention has solved the stated problem by providing three novel  crtW  genes useful for the production of ketocarotenoids in recombinant host cells. Methods for producing ketocarotenoids using the present CrtW ketolases are also provided. 
   
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0009]
     The invention relates to new carotenoid ketolase enzymes capable of the conversion of cyclic carotenoids to cyclic ketocarotenoids. Accordingly the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid ketolase enzyme, selected from the group consisting of:
       (a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an amino acid as set forth in SEQ ID NOs:2, 4, and 6;   (b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following wash conditions: 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65°C; or   
an isolated nucleic acid molecule that is complementary to (a), or (b).
       
    
    [0010]
     Similarly the invention provides genetic chimera comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecules operably linked to suitable regulatory sequences, polypeptides encoded by the isolated nucleic acid molecules of the invention and transformed production host cells comprising the same. 
     
    
    [0011]
     The invention additionally provides methods of obtaining the nucleic acid molecules of the invention either by methods of primer directed amplification or by hybridization. 
     
    
    [0012]
     In an other embodiment the invention provides a method for the production of cyclic ketocarotenoid compounds comprising:
       (a) providing a host cell which produces cyclic carotenoids;   (b) transforming the host cell of (a) with the genes of the invention encoding a carotenoid ketolase enzyme; and   (c) growing the transformed host cell of (b) under conditions whereby a cyclic ketocarotenoid is produced.   
   
    
    [0013]
     Similarly the invention provides a method of regulating cyclic ketocarotenoid biosynthesis in an organism comprising,
       (a) introducing into a host cell a carotenoid ketolase gene of the invention said gene under the control of suitable regulatory sequences; and   (b) growing the host cell of (a) under conditions whereby the carotenoid ketolase gene is expressed and cyclic ketocarotenoid biosynthesis is regulated.   
   
    
    [0014]
     In an alternate embodiment the invention provides a method for the increasing production of cyclic ketocarotenoid compounds comprising:
       (a) providing a host cell which produces cyclic carotenoids;   (b) transforming the host cell of (a) with a first gene, of the invention encoding a CrtW carotenoid ketolase enzyme;   (c) transforming the host cell of (a) with a second gene encoding a CrtW carotenoid ketolase enzyme, said second gene having less than 65% nucleic acid sequence identity when compared to said first gene; and   (d) growing the transformed host cell comprising said first gene of (a) and said second gene of (b) under conditions whereby the production of cyclic ketocarotenoid is increased relative to a transformed host cell only expressing either said first gene or said second gene.   
   
    
    [0015]
     Mutated genes of the invention are also provided produced by a method comprising the steps of:
       (a) digesting a mixture of nucleotide sequences with restriction endonucleases wherein said mixture comprises:
   i) a native carotenoid ketolase gene;   ii) a first population of nucleotide fragments which will hybridize to said native carotenoid ketolase gene;   iii) a second population of nucleotide fragments that will not hybridize to said native carotenoid ketolase gene;   
wherein a mixture of restriction fragments are produced;   (b) denaturing said mixture of restriction fragments;   (c) incubating the denatured said mixture of restriction fragments of step (ii) with a polymerase;   (d) repeating steps (ii) and (iii) wherein a mutated carotenoid ketolase gene is produced encoding a protein having an altered biological activity.   
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS AND SEQUENCE DESCRIPTIONS 
 
   
    
    [0016]
     
     
   Figure 1 . Illustration of possible pathway intermediates in the synthesis of astaxanthin via ketolase and hydroxylase reactions from β-carotene. 
   Figure 2 . HPLC analysis of carotenoids produced by the bacterial strains.  Figure 2a  shows HPLC data :from the analysis of  S .  melonis  DC18;  Figure 2b  shows HPLC data from the analysis of  B. vesicularis  DC263; and  Figure 2c  shows HPLC data from the analysis of  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C. 
   Figure 3 . HPLC data from the analysis of carotenoids produced by β-carotene accumulating  E.coli  strain expressing the divergent  crtW  genes. 
   Figure 4 . HPLC data from the analysis of carotenoids produced by astaxanthin-producing  E.coli  strain expressing the divergent  crtW  genes. 
   Figure 5 . HPLC analysis of  Methylomonas sp.  16a cells expressing the divergent  crtW  genes with β-carotene synthesis genes. 
 
   
    
    [0017]
     The invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description and the accompanying sequence descriptions, which form a part of this application. 
     
    
    [0018]
     The following sequences comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.821-1.825 ("Requirements for Patent Applications Containing Nucleotide Sequences and/or Amino Acid Sequence Disclosures - the Sequence Rules") and are consistent with World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Standard ST.25 (1998) and the sequence listing requirements of the EPO and PCT (Rules 5.2 and 49.5(a-bis), and Section 208 and Annex C of the Administrative Instructions). The symbols and format used for nucleotide and amino acid sequence data comply with the rules set forth in 37 C.F.R. §1.822. 
     
    
    [0019]
     SEQ ID NO:1 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18  crtW  ORF. 
     
    
    [0020]
     SEQ ID NO:2 is the deduced amino acid sequence of the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 CrtW ketolase. 
     
    
    [0021]
     SEQ ID NO:3 is the nucleotide sequence of  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263  crtW  ORF. 
     
    
    [0022]
     SEQ ID NO:4 is the deduced amino acid sequence of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 CrtW ketolase. 
     
    
    [0023]
     SEQ ID NO:5 is the nucleotide sequence of  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C  crtW  ORF. 
     
    
    [0024]
     SEQ ID NO:6 is the deduced amino acid sequence of the  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C CrtW ketolase. 
     
    
    [0025]
     SEQ ID NO:7 is the nucleotide sequence of a primer ("HK12") used for 16S rRNA gene sequencing. 
     
    
    [0026]
     SEQ ID NO:8 is the nucleotide sequence of a primer ("JCR14") used for 16S rRNA gene sequencing. 
     
    
    [0027]
     SEQ ID NO:9 is the nucleotide sequence of a primer ("JCR15") used for 16S rRNA gene sequencing. 
     
    
    [0028]
     SEQ ID NO:10 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 16S rRNA gene. 
     
    
    [0029]
     SEQ ID NO:11 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 16S rRNA gene. 
     
    
    [0030]
     SEQ ID NO:12 is the nucleotide sequence of the  crtEidiYIBZ  carotenoid synthesis gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (   US SN 60/477874   ) 
     
    
    [0031]
     SEQ ID NO:13 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pWEB404F. 
     
    
    [0032]
     SEQ ID NO:14 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pWEB404R. 
     
    
    [0033]
     SEQ ID NO:15 is the nucleotide sequence of the  crtEidiYIB  gene cluster from  P. agglomerans  DC404. 
     
    
    [0034]
     SEQ ID NO:16 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-18_F. 
     
    
    [0035]
     SEQ ID NO:17 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-18_R. 
     
    
    [0036]
     SEQ ID NO:18 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-263_F. 
     
    
    [0037]
     SEQ ID NO:19 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-263_R. 
     
    
    [0038]
     SEQ ID NO:20 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW/K1-202CF. 
     
    
    [0039]
     SEQ ID NO:21 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW/K1-202CR. 
     
    
    [0040]
     SEQ ID NO:22 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Agrobacterium aurantiacum crtZ  hydroxylase gene. 
     
    
    [0041]
     SEQ ID NO:23 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Agrobacterium aurantiacum crtW  ketolase gene. 
     
    
    [0042]
     SEQ ID NO:24 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtZW_F. 
     
    
    [0043]
     SEQ ID NO:25 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtZW_soe_R. 
     
    
    [0044]
     SEQ ID NO:26 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtZW_soe_F 
     
    
    [0045]
     SEQ ID NO:27 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtZW_R. 
     
    
    [0046]
     SEQ ID NO:28 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260_F. 
     
    
    [0047]
     SEQ ID NO:29 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260SOE-R. 
     
    
    [0048]
     SEQ ID NO:30 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260SOE_F. 
     
    
    [0049]
     SEQ ID NO:31 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260R1_R. 
     
    
    [0050]
     SEQ ID NO:32 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260R1_F. 
     
    
    [0051]
     SEQ ID NO:33 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260_R. 
     
    
    [0052]
     The following biological deposit was made under the terms of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure:
           Depositor Identification Reference   International Depository Designation   Date of Deposit           Methylomonas  16a   ATCC PTA 2402   August 22, 2000           
     
    
    [0053]
     As used herein, "ATCC" refers to the American Type Culture Collection International Depository Authority located at ATCC, 10801 University Blvd., Manassas, VA 20110-2209, U.S.A. The "International Depository Designation" is the accession number to the culture on deposit with ATCC. 
     
    
    [0054]
     The listed deposit will be maintained in the indicated international depository for at least thirty (30) years and will be made available to the public upon the grant of a patent disclosing it. The availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by government action. 
   
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0055]
     The present  crtW  genes and their expression product, a carotenoid ketolase, are useful for the creation of recombinant organisms that have the ability to produce cyclic ketocarotenoid compounds. Nucleic acid fragments encoding CrtW ketolases have been isolated from several bacterial strains including  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18,  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263, and  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C. The isolated nucleic acid fragments were identified and characterized by comparison to public databases containing nucleotide and protein sequences using the BLAST and FASTA algorithms, well-known to those skilled in the art. 
     
    
    [0056]
     The present  crtW  ketolase genes were expressed in transgenic microbial hosts engineered to produce suitable substrates (i.e. β-carotene). Functional expression of the genes was measured by the production of ketocarotenoids (for example, canthaxanthin and astaxanthin) in the heterologous hosts. Additionally, the effects of divergent ketolase coexpression on ketocarotenoid production within the transgenic hosts were characterized by measuring relative changes in ketocarotenoid production. 
     
    
    [0057]
     The genes and gene products of the present invention may be used in a variety of ways for the production or regulation of cyclic ketocarotenoid compounds. The present  crtW  ketolase genes can be used for ketocarotenoid production in heterologous hosts having the ability to produce suitable substrates. Additionally, two or more of the present  crtW  ketolase genes may be simultaneously expressed in the heterologous host for optimized production of ketocarotenoids. Simultaneous expression of the present  crtW  genes is possible due to their relatively low to moderate nucleotide sequence homology to other known CrtW ketolases. The relatively low/moderate homology permits stable expression of multiple CrtW ketolases in the recombinant host cell for optimal ketocarotenoid production. 
     
    
    [0058]
     The gene and gene sequences described herein enable one to incorporate the production of ketocarotenoids directly into an industrially suitable host cell. This aspect makes any recombinant host into which these genes are incorporated a more desirable production host. The ketocarotenoids produced can be isolated from the production host for use in a variety of applications, including animal feed. Optionally, the recombinant host cells (whole, homogenized, or autolysed) can be directly incorporated into animal feed (no carotenoid isolation step) due to the presence of carotenoids that are known to add desirable pigmentation and health benefits. Salmon and shrimp aquacultures are particularly useful applications for this invention as carotenoid pigmentation is critically important for the value of these organisms ( F. Shahidi, J.A. Brown, Carotenoid pigments in seafood and aquaculture, Critical Reviews in Food Science, 38(1):1-67 (1998 )). Additionally, the ketocarotenoid astaxanthin is known to be a powerful antioxidant and has been reported to boost immune functions in humans and reduce carcinogenesis ( Jyonouchi et al., Nutr. Cancer, 23:171-183 (1995 );  Tanaka et al., Cancer Res., 55:4059-4064 (1995 )). 
     
    
    [0059]
     In this disclosure, a number of terms and abbreviations are used. The following definitions are provided. 
     
    
    [0060]
     As used herein, the term "comprising" means the presence of the stated features, integers, steps, or components as referred to in the claims, but that it does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof. 
     
    
    [0061]
     "Open reading frame" is abbreviated ORF. 
     
    
    [0062]
     "Polymerase chain reaction" is abbreviated PCR. 
     
    
    [0063]
     As used herein, the terms "isolated nucleic acid fragment" or "isolated nucleic acid molecule" will be used interchangeably and will refer to a polymer of RNA or DNA that is single- or double-stranded, optionally containing synthetic, non-natural or altered nucleotide bases. An isolated nucleic acid fragment in the form of a polymer of DNA may be comprised of one or more segments of cDNA, genomic DNA or synthetic DNA. 
     
    
    [0064]
     The term "pBHR-crt1" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid was constructed by cloning the  crtEXYIB  carotenoid gene cluster from  Pantoea stewartii  (ATCC 8199) into pBHR1 (MoBioTech, Goettingen, Germany; and    US 09/941947   , hereby incorporated by reference). The resulting plasmid contained the  P. stewartii  gene cluster expressed under the control of the chloramphenicol-resistance gene promoter. 
     
    
    [0065]
     The term, "pDCQ329" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid was constructed by cloning the  crtEXYIB  carotenoid gene cluster from  Enterobactericeae  DC260 into pBHR1 (     US  10/808979   ). 
     
    
    [0066]
     The term "pDCQ330" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid was constructed by cloning the  crtEidiYIB  carotenoid gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 into broad host range vector pBHR1. 
     
    
    [0067]
     The term "pCDQ335" refers to a plasmid comprising the β-carotene synthesis gene cluster from pDCQ330 and the  Agrobacterium aurantiacum crtZW  genes. Plasmid pDCQ335 contains the  crtZWEidiYIB  genes in an operon under the control of the chloramphenicol resistance gene promoter. The resulting plasmid, when transformed into an appropriate heterologous host, enables the production of astaxanthin ( Figure 1 ). 
     
    
    [0068]
     The term "pDCQ335TA" refers to a plasmid comprising the  Agrobacterium aurantiacum crtWZ  genes cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO expression vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). 
     
    
    [0069]
     The term "pDCQ340" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid contains the  crtEYIB  genes from  Enterobactericeae  DC260 cloned into the broad host range vector pBHR1. 
     
    
    [0070]
     The term "pDCQ341 TA" refers to a plasmid expressing the  crtW  gene from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). 
     
    
    [0071]
     The term "pDCQ342TA" refers to a plasmid expressing the  crtW  gene from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). 
     
    
    [0072]
     The term "pDCQ339TA" refers to a plasmid expressing the  crtW  gene from  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). 
     
    
    [0073]
     The term "isoprenoid" or "terpenoid" refers to the compounds are any molecule derived from the isoprenoid pathway including 10 carbon terpenoids and their derivatives, such as carotenoids and xanthophylls. 
     
    
    [0074]
     The term "carotenoid" refers to a compound composed of a polyene backbone which is condensed from five-carbon isoprene unit. Carotenoids can be acyclic or terminated with one (monocyclic) or two (bicyclic) cyclic end groups. The term "carotenoid" may include both carotenes and xanthophylls. A "carotene" refers to a hydrocarbon carotenoid. Carotene derivatives that contain one or more oxygen atoms, in the form of hydroxy-, methoxy-, oxo-, epoxy-, carboxy-, or aldehydic functional groups, or within glycosides, glycoside esters, or sulfates, are collectively known as "xanthophylls". Carotenoids that are particularly suitable in the present invention are monocyclic and bicyclic carotenoids. 
     
    
    [0075]
     The term "carotenoid biosynthetic pathway" refers to those genes comprising members of the "upper isoprenoid pathway" and/or the "lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway". 
     
    
    [0076]
     The terms "upper isoprenoid pathway" and "upper pathway" are used interchangeably and refer to enzymes involved in converting pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP). Genes encoding these enzymes include, but are not limited to: the " dxs " gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate synthase); the " dxr " gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase; also known as the  ispC ); the " ispD " gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D-erythritol cytidyltransferase enzyme; also known as  ygbP ); the " ispE " gene (encoding 4- diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methylerythritol kinase; also known as  ychB ); the " ispF " gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D- erythritol  2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase; also known as  ygbB ); the " pyrG " gene (encoding a CTP synthase; also known as  ispF ); the " lytB " gene (also known as  ispH ) involved in the formation of dimethylallyl diphosphate; the " gcpE " gene (also known as  ispG ) involved in the synthesis of 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate; the "idi"gene (responsible for the intramolecular conversion of IPP to dimethylallyl pyrophosphate); and the " ispA " gene (encoding geranyltransferase or farnesyl diphosphate synthase) in the isoprenoid pathway. 
     
    
    [0077]
     The terms "lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway" and "lower pathway" will be used interchangeably and refer to those enzymes which convert FPP to a suite of carotenoids. These include those genes and gene products that are involved in the synthesis of either diapophytoene (whose synthesis represents the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 30  carotenoids) or phytoene (whose synthesis represents the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 40  carotenoids). All subsequent reactions leading to the production of various C 30 -C 40  carotenoids are included within the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. These genes and gene products comprise all of the " crt " genes including, but not limited to:  crtM, crtN, crtN2, crtE, crtX, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtW crtO, crtR, crtA, crtC, crtD, crtF,  and  crtU . Finally, the term "lower carotenoid biosynthetic enzyme" is an inclusive term referring to any and all of the enzymes in the lower pathway including, but not limited to: CrtM, CrtN, CrtN2, CrtE, CrtX, CrtY, CrtI, CrtB, CrtZ, CrtW, CrtO, CrtR, CrtA, CrtC, CrtD, CrtF, and CrtU. 
     
    
    [0078]
     "C 30  diapocarotenoids" consist of six isoprenoid units joined in such a manner that the arrangement of isoprenoid units is reversed at the center of the molecule so that the two central methyl groups are in a 1,6-positional relationship and the remaining nonterminal methyl groups are in a 1,5-positional relationship. All C 30  carotenoids may be formally derived from the acyclic C 30 H 42  structure, having a long central chain of conjugated double bonds, by: (i) hydrogenation (ii) dehydrogenation, (iii) cyclization, (iv) oxidation, (v) esterification/ glycosylation, or any combination of these processes. 
     
    
    [0079]
     "Tetraterpenes" or "C 40  carotenoids" consist of eight isoprenoid units joined in such a manner that the arrangement of isoprenoid units is reversed at the center of the molecule so that the two central methyl groups are in a 1,6-positional relationship and the remaining nonterminal methyl groups are in a 1,5-positional relationship. All C 40  carotenoids may be formally derived from the acyclic C 40 H 56  structure. Non-limiting examples of C 40  carotenoids include: phytoene, lycopene, β-carotene, zeaxanthin, astaxanthin, and canthaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0080]
     The term "CrtE" refers to a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme encoded by the  crtE  gene and which converts trans-trans-farnesyl diphosphate and isopentenyl diphosphate to pyrophosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate. 
     
    
    [0081]
     The term "Idi" refers to an isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase enzyme (E.C. 5.3.3.2) encoded by the  idi  gene. 
     
    
    [0082]
     The term "CrtY" refers to a lycopene cyclase enzyme encoded by the  crtY  gene, which converts lycopene to β-carotene. 
     
    
    [0083]
     The term "CrtI" refers to a phytoene desaturase enzyme encoded by the  crtI  gene. CrtI converts phytoene into lycopene via the intermediaries of phytofluene, ζ-carotene, and neurosporene by the introduction of 4 double bonds. 
     
    
    [0084]
     The term "CrtB" refers to a phytoene synthase enzyme encoded by the  crtB  gene, which catalyzes the reaction from prephytoene diphosphate to phytoene. 
     
    
    [0085]
     The term "CrtZ" refers to a β-carotene hydroxylase enzyme encoded by the  crtZ  gene, which catalyzes a hydroxylation reaction from β-carotene to zeaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0086]
     The term "CrtW" refers to a β-carotene ketolase enzyme encoded by the  crtW  gene, which catalyzes an oxidation reaction where a keto group is introduced on the ionone ring of cyclic carotenoids. It is known that CrtW ketolases typically exhibit substrate flexibility. The term "carotenoid ketolase" or "ketolase" refers to the group of enzymes that can add keto groups to the ionone ring of cyclic carotenoids. 
     
    
    [0087]
     The term "CrtX" refers to a zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase enzyme encoded by the  crtX  gene and which converts zeaxanthin to zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside. 
     
    
    [0088]
     The term "keto group" or "ketone group" will be used interchangeably and refers to a group in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: R 2 C=O (neither R may be H). 
     
    
    [0089]
     The term "ketocarotenoid" refers to carotenoids possessing at least one keto group on the ionone ring of a cyclic carotenoid. Examples of ketocarotenoids include, but are not limited to canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0090]
     As used herein, "substantially similar" refers to nucleic acid fragments wherein changes in one or more nucleotide bases results in substitution of one or more amino acids, but do not affect the functional properties of the protein encoded by the DNA sequence. "Substantially similar" also refers to nucleic acid fragments wherein changes in one or more nucleotide bases does not affect the ability of the nucleic acid fragment to mediate alteration of gene expression by antisense or co-suppression technology. "Substantially similar" also refers to modifications of the nucleic acid fragments of the instant invention such as deletion or insertion of one or more nucleotide bases that do not substantially affect the functional properties of the resulting transcript. It is therefore understood that the invention encompasses more than the specific exemplary sequences. 
     
    
    [0091]
     For example, it is well known in the art that alterations in a gene which result in the production of a chemically equivalent amino acid at a given site, but do not effect the functional properties of the encoded protein are common. For the purposes of the present invention substitutions are defined as exchanges within one of the following five groups:
       1. Small aliphatic, nonpolar or slightly polar residues: Ala, Ser, Thr (Pro, Gly);   2. Polar, negatively charged residues and their amides: Asp, Asn, Glu, Gln;   3. Polar, positively charged residues: His, Arg, Lys;   4. Large aliphatic, nonpolar residues: Met, Leu, Ile, Val (Cys); and   5. Large aromatic residues: Phe, Tyr, Trp.   
   
    
    [0092]
     Thus, a codon for the amino acid alanine, a hydrophobic amino acid, may be substituted by a codon encoding another less hydrophobic residue (such as glycine) or a more hydrophobic residue (such as valine, leucine, or isoleucine). Similarly, changes which result in substitution of one negatively charged residue for another (such as aspartic acid for glutamic acid) or one positively charged residue for another (such as lysine for arginine) can also be expected to produce a functionally equivalent product. 
     
    
    [0093]
     In many cases, nucleotide changes which result in alteration of the N-terminal and C-terminal portions of the protein molecule would also not be expected to alter the activity of the protein. 
     
    
    [0094]
     Each of the proposed modifications is well within the routine skill in the art, as is determination of retention of biological activity of the encoded products. Moreover, the skilled artisan recognizes that substantially similar sequences encompassed by this invention are also defined by their ability to hybridize, under stringent conditions (0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65°C and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS), with the sequences exemplified herein. In one embodiment, substantially similar nucleic acid fragments of the instant invention are those nucleic acid fragments whose DNA sequences are at least about 80% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid fragments reported herein. In another embodiment, substantially similar nucleic acid fragments are at least about 90% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid fragments reported herein. In yet a further embodiment, substantially similar nucleic acid fragments are at least about 95% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid fragments reported herein. 
     
    
    [0095]
     A nucleic acid molecule is "hybridizable" to another nucleic acid molecule, such as a cDNA, genomic DNA, or RNA, when a single stranded form of the nucleic acid molecule can anneal to the other nucleic acid molecule under the appropriate conditions of temperature and solution ionic strength. Hybridization and washing conditions are well known and exemplified in  Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor (1989 ) (hereinafter "Maniatis"), particularly Chapter 11 and Table 11.1 therein. The conditions of temperature and ionic strength determine the "stringency" of the hybridization. Stringency conditions can be adjusted to screen for moderately similar fragments, such as homologous sequences from distantly related organisms, to highly similar fragments, such as genes that duplicate functional enzymes from closely related organisms. Post-hybridization washes determine stringency conditions. In one embodiment, the stringency conditions use a series of washes starting with 6X SSC, 0.5% SDS at room temperature for about 15 min, then repeated with 2X SSC, 0.5% SDS at about 45°C for about 30 min, and then repeated twice with 0.2X SSC, 0.5% SDS at about 50°C for about 30 min. In another embodiment, the stringency conditions use higher temperatures in which the washes are identical to those above except for the temperature of the final two 30 min washes in 0.2X SSC, 0.5% SDS was increased to about 60°C. In yet another embodiment, highly stringent conditions use two final washes in 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS at about 65°C. Hybridization requires that the two nucleic acids contain complementary sequences, although depending on the stringency of the hybridization, mismatches between bases are possible. The appropriate stringency for hybridizing nucleic acids depends on the length of the nucleic acids and the degree of complementation, variables well-known in the art. The greater the degree of similarity or homology between two nucleotide sequences, the greater the value of Tm for hybrids of nucleic acids having those sequences. The relative stability (corresponding to higher Tm) of nucleic acid hybridizations decreases in the following order: RNA:RNA, DNA:RNA, DNA:DNA. For hybrids of greater than 100 nucleotides in length, equations for calculating Tm have been derived (see Sambrook et al.,  supra,  9.50-9.51). For hybridizations with shorter nucleic acids, i.e., oligonucleotides, the position of mismatches becomes more important, and the length of the oligonucleotide determines its specificity (see Sambrook et al.,  supra,  11.7-11.8). In one embodiment, the length for a hybridizable nucleic acid is at least about 10 nucleotides. In another embodiment, the minimum length for a hybridizable nucleic acid is at least about 15 nucleotides; in yet another embodiment at least about 20 nucleotides; and in yet a further embodiment, the length is at least about 30 nucleotide. Furthermore, the skilled artisan will recognize that the temperature and wash solution salt concentration may be adjusted as necessary according to factors such as length of the probe. 
     
    
    [0096]
     A "substantial portion" of an amino acid or nucleotide sequence comprising enough of the amino acid sequence of a polypeptide or the nucleotide sequence of a gene to putatively identify that polypeptide or gene, either by manual evaluation of the sequence by one skilled in the art, or by computer-automated sequence comparison and identification using algorithms such as BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool;  Altschul, S. F., et al., (1993) J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410 ). In general, a sequence of ten or more contiguous amino acids or thirty or more nucleotides is necessary in order to putatively identify a polypeptide or nucleic acid sequence as homologous to a known protein or gene. Moreover, with respect to nucleotide sequences, gene specific oligonucleotide probes comprising about 20-30 contiguous nucleotides may be used in sequence-dependent methods of gene identification (e.g., Southern hybridization) and isolation (e.g.,  in situ  hybridization of bacterial colonies or bacteriophage plaques). In addition, short oligonucleotides of about 12-15 bases may be used as amplification primers in PCR in order to obtain a particular nucleic acid fragment comprising the primers. Accordingly, a "substantial portion" of a nucleotide sequence comprises enough of the sequence to specifically identify and/or isolate a nucleic acid fragment comprising the sequence. The instant specification teaches partial or complete amino acid and nucleotide sequences encoding one or more particular microbial proteins. The skilled artisan, having the benefit of the sequences as reported herein, may now use all or a substantial portion of the disclosed sequences for purposes known to those skilled in this art. Accordingly, the instant invention comprises the complete sequences as reported in the accompanying Sequence Listing, as well as substantial portions of those sequences as defined above. 
     
    
    [0097]
     The term "complementary" is used to describe the relationship between nucleotide bases that are capable to hybridizing to one another. For example, with respect to DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine and cytosine is complementary to guanine. Accordingly, the instant invention also includes isolated nucleic acid fragments that are complementary to the complete sequences as reported in the accompanying Sequence Listing as well as those substantially similar nucleic acid sequences. 
     
    
    [0098]
     The term "percent identity", as known in the art, is a relationship between two or more polypeptide sequences or two or more polynucleotide sequences, as determined by comparing the sequences. In the art, "identity" also means the degree of sequence relatedness between polypeptide or polynucleotide sequences, as the case may be, as determined by the match between strings of such sequences. "Identity" and "similarity" can be readily calculated by known methods, including but not limited to those described in:  Computational Molecular Biology (Lesk, A. M., ed.) Oxford University Press, NY (1988 );  Biocomputing: Informatics and Genome Projects (Smith, D. W., ed.) Academic Press, NY (1993 );  Computer Analysis of Sequence Data, Part I (Griffin, A. M., and Griffin, H. G., eds.) Humana Press, NJ (1994 );  Sequence Analysis in Molecular Biology (von Heinje, G., ed.) Academic Press (1987 ); and  Sequence Analysis Primer (Gribskov, M. and Devereux, J., eds.) Stockton Press, NY (1991 ). In one embodiment, the methods used to determine identity are designed to give the best match between the sequences tested. Methods to determine identity and similarity are codified in publicly available computer programs. Sequence alignments and percent identity calculations may be performed using the Megalign program of the LASERGENE bioinformatics computing suite (DNASTAR Inc., Madison, WI). Multiple alignment of the sequences can be performed using the Clustal method of alignment ( Higgins and Sharp, CABIOS., 5:151-153 (1989 )) with the default parameters (GAP PENALTY=10, GAP LENGTH PENALTY=10). Default parameters for pairwise alignments using the Clustal method were KTUPLE 1, GAP PENALTY=3, WINDOW=5 and DIAGONALS SAVED=5. 
     
    
    [0099]
     Suitable nucleic acid fragments (isolated polynucleotides of the present invention) encode polypeptides that are at least about 75% identical. In one embodiment, suitable nucleic acid fragments are at least about 85% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In another embodiment, the nucleic acid fragments encode amino acid sequences that are at least about 90% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In a further embodiment, nucleic acid fragments encode amino acid sequences that are at least about 95% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In yet a further embodiment, the suitable nucleic acid fragments encode amino acid sequences that are at least about 99% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. Suitable nucleic acid fragments of the present invention not only have the above homologies, but typically encode a polypeptide having at least about 240 amino acids. 
     
    
    [0100]
     In the present invention, the terms "divergent gene", "divergent ketolase", and "divergent sequence" are used interchangeably and refer to the lack of nucleic acid fragment sequence identity among CrtW ketolases. Nucleotide sequence comparisons between 2 or more  crtW  genes allows classification of the relationship(s) as to the relative degree of sequence identity. Simultaneous expression of highly homologous genes tends to result in genetic instability (i.e. increased rate of homologous recombination). Expression of moderately or highly divergent genes is likely to result in genetic stability. As used herein, "genetic stability" or "genetically stable" will be used to described the expression of multiple carotenoid ketolase genes having coding sequence with less than 75% nucleic acid sequence identity to the present carotenoid ketolase genes, preferably less than 65% nucleic acid sequence identity. This is particularly important when chromosomally integrating more than one carotenoid ketolase gene for increasing ketocarotenoid production in a genetically stable transformant. In one embodiment, the  crtW  ketolase genes useful for coexpression are those that share less than 75% identify when compared by sequence alignment. In another embodiment, the  crtW  ketolase genes used for coexpression are those that share less than about 65% identify when compared by sequence alignment. In a further embodiment, the  crtW  genes used for coexpression are those that share less than about 55% identify when compared by sequence alignment. In yet a further embodiment, the  crtW  genes used for coexpression are those that share less than about 45% identify when compared by sequence alignment. 
     
    
    [0101]
     "Codon degeneracy" refers to the nature in the genetic code permitting variation of the nucleotide sequence without effecting the amino acid sequence of an encoded polypeptide. Accordingly, the instant invention relates to any nucleic acid fragment that encodes all or a substantial portion of the amino acid sequence encoding the instant microbial polypeptides as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 2, 4, and 6. The skilled artisan is well aware of the "codon-bias" exhibited by a specific host cell in usage of nucleotide codons to specify a given amino acid. Therefore, when synthesizing a gene for improved expression in a host cell, it is desirable to design the gene such that its frequency of codon usage approaches the frequency of preferred codon usage of the host cell. 
     
    
    [0102]
     "Synthetic genes" can be assembled from oligonucleotide building blocks that are chemically synthesized using procedures known to those skilled in the art. These building blocks are ligated and annealed to form gene segments which are then enzymatically assembled to construct the entire gene. "Chemically synthesized", as related to a sequence of DNA, means that the component nucleotides were assembled  in vitro.  Manual chemical synthesis of DNA may be accomplished using well-established procedures, or automated chemical synthesis can be performed using one of a number of commercially available machines. Accordingly, the genes can be tailored for optimal gene expression based on optimization of nucleotide sequence to reflect the codon bias of the host cell. The skilled artisan appreciates the likelihood of successful gene expression if codon usage is biased towards those codons favored by the host. Determination of preferred codons can be based on a survey of genes derived from the host cell where sequence information is available. 
     
    
    [0103]
     "Gene" refers to a nucleic acid fragment that expresses a specific protein, including regulatory sequences preceding (5' non-coding sequences) and following (3' non-coding sequences) the coding sequence. "Native gene" refers to a gene as found in nature with its own regulatory sequences. "Chimeric gene" refers to any gene that is not a native gene, comprising regulatory and coding sequences that are not found together in nature. Accordingly, a chimeric gene may comprise regulatory sequences and coding sequences that are derived from different sources, or regulatory sequences and coding sequences derived from the same source, but arranged in a manner different than that found in nature. "Endogenous gene" refers to a native gene in its natural location in the genome of an organism. A "foreign" gene refers to a gene not normally found in the host organism, but that is introduced into the host organism by gene transfer. Foreign genes can comprise native genes inserted into a non-native organism, or chimeric genes. A "transgene" is a gene that has been introduced into the genome by a transformation procedure. 
     
    
    [0104]
     "Coding sequence" refers to a DNA sequence that codes for a specific amino acid sequence. "Suitable regulatory sequences" refer to nucleotide sequences located upstream (5' non-coding sequences), within, or downstream (3' non-coding sequences) of a coding sequence, and which influence the transcription, RNA processing or stability, or translation of the associated coding sequence. Regulatory sequences may include promoters, translation leader sequences, introns, polyadenylation recognition sequences, RNA processing site, effector binding site and stem-loop structure. 
     
    
    [0105]
     "Promoter" refers to a DNA sequence capable of controlling the expression of a coding sequence or functional RNA. In general, a coding sequence is located 3' to a promoter sequence. Promoters may be derived in their entirety from a native gene, or be composed of different elements derived from different promoters found in nature, or even comprise synthetic DNA segments. It is understood by those skilled in the art that different promoters may direct the expression of a gene in different tissues or cell types, or at different stages of development, or in response to different environmental or physiological conditions. Promoters which cause a gene to be expressed in most cell types at most times are commonly referred to as "constitutive promoters". It is further recognized that since in most cases the exact boundaries of regulatory sequences have not been completely defined, DNA fragments of different lengths may have identical promoter activity. 
     
    
    [0106]
     The "3' non-coding sequences" refer to DNA sequences located downstream of a coding sequence and include polyadenylation recognition sequences (normally limited to eukaryotes) and other sequences encoding regulatory signals capable of affecting mRNA processing or gene expression. The polyadenylation signal is usually characterized by affecting the addition of polyadenylic acid tracts (normally limited to eukaryotes) to the 3' end of the mRNA precursor. 
     
    
    [0107]
     "RNA transcript" refers to the product resulting from RNA polymerase-catalyzed transcription of a DNA sequence. When the RNA transcript is a perfect complementary copy of the DNA sequence, it is referred to as the primary transcript or it may be a RNA sequence derived from post-transcriptional processing of the primary transcript and is referred to as the mature RNA. "Messenger RNA (mRNA)" refers to the RNA that is without introns and that can be translated into protein by the cell. "cDNA" refers to a double-stranded DNA that is complementary to and derived from mRNA. "Sense" RNA refers to RNA transcript that includes the mRNA and so can be translated into protein by the cell. "Antisense RNA" refers to a RNA transcript that is complementary to all or part of a target primary transcript or mRNA and that blocks the expression of a target gene (   US 5,107,065   ;    WO 99/28508   ). The complementarity of an antisense RNA may be with any part of the specific gene transcript, i.e., at the 5' non-coding sequence, 3' non-coding sequence, or the coding sequence. "Functional RNA" refers to antisense RNA, ribozyme RNA, or other RNA that is not translated yet has an effect on cellular processes. 
     
    
    [0108]
     The term "operably linked" refers to the association of nucleic acid sequences on a single nucleic acid fragment so that the function of one is affected by the other. For example, a promoter is operably linked with a coding sequence when it is capable of affecting the expression of that coding sequence (i.e., that the coding sequence is under the transcriptional control of the promoter). Coding sequences can be operably linked to regulatory sequences in sense or antisense orientation. 
     
    
    [0109]
     The term "expression", as used herein, refers to the transcription and stable accumulation of sense (mRNA) or antisense RNA derived from the nucleic acid fragment of the invention. Expression may also refer to translation of mRNA into a polypeptide. 
     
    
    [0110]
     "Transformation" refers to the transfer of a nucleic acid fragment into the genome of a host organism, resulting in genetically stable inheritance. As used herein, the host cell genome includes both chromosomal or extrachromosomal (i.e. a vector) genes with the host cell. Host organisms containing the transformed nucleic acid fragments are referred to as "transgenic" or "recombinant" or "transformed" organisms. 
     
    
    [0111]
     "Conjugation" refers to a particular type of transformation in which a unidirectional transfer of DNA (e.g., from a bacterial plasmid) occurs from one bacterium cell (i.e., the "donor") to another (i.e., the "recipient"). The process involves direct cell-to-cell contact. 
     
    
    [0112]
     The term "carbon substrate" refers to a carbon source capable of being metabolized by host organisms of the present invention and particularly carbon sources selected from the group consisting of monosaccharides, oligosaccharides, polysaccharides, and one-carbon substrates or mixtures thereof. The term "C 1  carbon substrate" refers to any carbon-containing molecule that lacks a carbon-carbon bond. Non-limiting examples are methane, methanol, formaldehyde, formic acid, formate, methylated amines (e.g., mono-, di-, and tri-methyl amine), methylated thiols, and carbon dioxide. In one embodiment, the C 1  carbon substrate is methanol and/or methane. 
     
    
    [0113]
     The term "C 1  metabolizer" refers to a microorganism that has the ability to use a single carbon substrate as its sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizers will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs. The term "C 1  metabolizing bacteria" refers to bacteria that have the ability to use a single carbon substrate as their sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizing bacteria, a subset of C 1  metabolizers, will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs. In one embodiment, the C 1  metabolizer is a methylotroph and the single carbon substrate is selected from the group consisting of methane and/or methanol. In another embodiment, the C 1  metabolizer is a methanotroph and the single carbon substrate is selected from the group consisting of methane and/or methanol. 
     
    
    [0114]
     The term "methylotroph" means an organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. Where the methylotroph is able to oxidize CH 4 , the methylotroph is also a methanotroph. 
     
    
    [0115]
     The term "methanotroph" or "methanotrophic bacteria" means a prokaryote capable of utilizing methane as its primary source of carbon and energy. Complete oxidation of methane to carbon dioxide occurs by aerobic degradation pathways. Typical examples of methanotrophs useful in the present invention include (but are not limited to) the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus,  and  Methylosinus.   
     
    
    [0116]
     The term "high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain" refers to a bacterium capable of growth with methane and/or methanol as the sole carbon and energy source and which possesses a functional Embden-Meyerhof carbon flux pathway, resulting in a high rate of growth and yield of cell mass per gram of C 1  substrate metabolized (   US 6,689,601   ). The specific "high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain" described herein is referred to as  "Methylomonas  16a", "16a" or  "Methylomonas sp.  16a", which terms are used interchangeably and which refer to the  Methylomonas  strain used in the present invention. 
     
    
    [0117]
     The term "CrtN1" refers to an enzyme encoded by the  crtN1  gene, active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is located within an an operon comprising  crtN2  and  ald.   
     
    
    [0118]
     The term "ALD" refers to an enzyme encoded by the  ald  gene, active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is located within an an operon comprising  crtN1  and  crtN2.   
     
    
    [0119]
     The term "CrtN2" refers to an enzyme encoded by the  crtN2  gene, active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is located within an an operon comprising  crtN 1 and  ald.   
     
    
    [0120]
     The term "CrtN3" refers to an enzyme encoded by the  crtN3  gene, active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is not located within the crt gene cluster; instead this gene is present in a different location within the  Methylomonas  genome. 
     
    
    [0121]
     The terms  "crtN1  gene cluster", "C 30   crt  gene cluster", " crt  gene cluster", and "endogenous  Methylomonas crt  gene cluster" refer to an operon comprising  crtN1, ald,  and  crtN2  genes that is active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. 
     
    
    [0122]
     The term "MWM1200 (Δ crt  cluster promoter + Δ crtN3  )" refers to a mutant of  Methylomonas sp.  16a in which the C 30   crt  cluster promoter and the  crtN3  gene have been disrupted. Disruption of the native C 30  carotenoid biosynthetic pathway results in suitable background for engineering C 40  carotenoid production. The  Methylomonas  MWM1200 strain was previously created and is a suitable carotenoid production host (   US 60/527083   ). The term "pigmentless" or "white mutant" refers to a  Methylomonas sp.  16a bacterium wherein the native pink pigment (e.g., a C 30  carotenoid) is not produced. Thus, the bacterial cells appear white in color, as opposed to pink. 
     
    
    [0123]
     The terms "plasmid", "vector" and "cassette" refer to an extra chromosomal element often carrying genes which are not part of the central metabolism of the cell, and usually in the form of circular double-stranded DNA fragments. Such elements may be autonomously replicating sequences, genome integrating sequences, phage or nucleotide sequences, linear or circular, of a single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA, derived from any source, in which a number of nucleotide sequences have been joined or recombined into a unique construction. "Transformation cassette" refers to a specific vector containing a foreign gene and having elements in addition to the foreign gene that facilitate transformation of a particular host cell. "Expression cassette" refers to a specific vector containing a foreign gene and having elements in addition to the foreign gene that allow for enhanced expression of that gene in a foreign host. 
     
    
    [0124]
     The term "sequence analysis software" refers to any computer algorithm or software program that is useful for the analysis of nucleotide or amino acid sequences. "Sequence analysis software" may be commercially available or independently developed. Typical sequence analysis software will include but is not limited to the GCG suite of programs (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, WI), BLASTP, BLASTN, BLASTX ( Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410 (1990 ), and DNASTAR (DNASTAR, Inc. 1228 S. Park St. Madison, WI 53715 USA), and the FASTA program incorporating the Smith-Waterman algorithm ( W. R. Pearson, Comput. Methods Genome Res., [Proc. Int. Symp.] (1994), Meeting Date 1992, 111-20. Editor(s): Suhai, Sandor. Publisher: Plenum, New York, NY ). Within the context of this application it will be understood that where sequence analysis software is used for analysis, that the results of the analysis will be based on the "default values" of the program referenced, unless otherwise specified. As used herein "default values" will mean any set of values or parameters (as set by the software manufacturer) which originally load with the software when first initialized. 
     
    
    [0125]
     The present invention provides newly discovered  crtW  genes encoding carotenoid ketolases. The present CrtW ketolases may be used  in vitro  and/or  in vivo  for the production of ketocarotenoids from cyclic carotenoid compounds. 
     
    
    [0126]
     Comparison of the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18  crtW  nucleotide base and deduced amino acid sequences to public databases reveals that the most similar known sequences were about 57% identical to the amino acid sequence of reported herein over length of 248/ amino acid using a Smith-Waterman alignment algorithm ( W. R. Pearson, Comput. Methods Genome Res., [Proc. Int. Symp.] (1994), Meeting Date 1992, 111-20. Editor(s): Suhai, Sandor. Publisher: Plenum, New York, NY ). 
     
    
    [0127]
     Comparison of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263  crtW  nucleotide base and deduced amino acid sequences to public databases reveals that the most similar known sequences were about 63% identical to the amino acid sequence of reported herein over length of 259 amino acid using a Smith-Waterman alignment algorithm. 
     
    
    [0128]
     Comparison of the  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C  crtW  nucleotide base and deduced amino acid sequences to public databases reveals that the most similar known sequences were about 47% identical to the amino acid sequence of reported herein over length of 256 amino acid using a Smith-Waterman alignment algorithm. 
     
    
    [0129]
     In one embodiment, the present invention is comprised of nucleic acid fragments encoding amino acid sequences that are at least about 75%-85% identical to the sequences herein. In another embodiment, the present invention is comprised of nucleic acid fragments encoding amino acid sequences that are at least about 85% to about 95% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In a further embodiment, the present invention is comprised of nucleic acid fragments encoding amino acid sequences are at least about 95% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In yet a further embodiment, the present invention is comprised of nucleic acid fragments encoding amino acid sequences that are at least 99% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. 
     
    
    [0130]
     Similarly, suitable nucleic acid fragments are those comprised of nucleic acid sequences encoding the corresponding active CrtW ketolases which are at least about 80% identical to the nucleic acid sequences of reported herein. In one embodiment, suitable  crtW  nucleic acid fragments are those having nucleic acid sequences that are at least about 90% identical to the nucleic acid sequences herein. In another embodiment, suitable  crtW  nucleic acid fragments are those having nucleic acid sequences that are at least about 95% identical to the nucleic acid sequences herein. In yet another embodiment, suitable  crtW  nucleic acid fragments are those having nucleic acid sequences that are at least about 99% identical to the nucleic acid sequences reported herein. 
   
 Isolation of Homologs 
 
   
    
    [0131]
     The nucleic acid fragments of the instant invention may be used to isolate genes encoding homologous proteins from the same or other microbial species. Isolation of homologous genes using sequence-dependent protocols is well-known in the art. Examples of sequence-dependent protocols include, but are not limited to, methods of nucleic acid hybridization, and methods of DNA and RNA amplification as exemplified by various uses of nucleic acid amplification technologies (e.g. polymerase chain reaction (PCR),    Mullis et al., US 4,683,202   ), ligase chain reaction (LCR),  Tabor, S. et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 82:1074 (1985 )) or strand displacement amplification (SDA,  Walker, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 89:392 (1992 )). 
     
    
    [0132]
     For example, genes encoding similar proteins or polypeptides to those of the instant invention could be isolated directly by using all or a portion of the instant nucleic acid fragments as DNA hybridization probes to screen libraries from any desired bacteria using methodology well known to those skilled in the art. Specific oligonucleotide probes based upon the instant nucleic acid sequences can be designed and synthesized by methods known in the art (Maniatis). Moreover, the entire sequences can be used directly to synthesize DNA probes by methods known to the skilled artisan such as random primers DNA labeling, nick translation, end-labeling techniques, or RNA probes using available  in vitro  transcription systems. In addition, specific primers can be designed and used to amplify a part of or the full-length of the instant sequences. The resulting amplification products can be labeled directly during amplification reactions or labeled after amplification reactions, and used as probes to isolate full length DNA fragments under conditions of appropriate stringency. 
     
    
    [0133]
     Typically in PCR-type amplification techniques, the primers have different sequences and are not complementary to each other. Depending on the desired test conditions, the sequences of the primers should be designed to provide for both efficient and faithful replication of the target nucleic acid. Methods of PCR primer design are common and well known in the art. ( Thein and Wallace, " The use of oligonucleotide as specific hybridization probes in the Diagnosis of Genetic Disorders ", in Human Genetic Diseases: A Practical Approach, K. E. Davis Ed., (1986) pp. 33-50 IRL Press, Herndon, Virginia );  Rychlik, W. , in Methods in Molecular Biology: PCR Protocols: Current Methods and Applications, Vol. 15, pages 31-39, White, B.A. (ed.), (1993) Humania Press, Inc., Totowa, NJ .) 
     
    
    [0134]
     Generally two short segments of the instant sequences may be used in polymerase chain reaction protocols to amplify longer nucleic acid fragments encoding homologous genes from DNA or RNA. The polymerase chain reaction may also be performed on a library of cloned nucleic acid fragments wherein the sequence of one primer is derived from the instant nucleic acid fragments, and the sequence of the other primer takes advantage of the presence of the polyadenylic acid tracts to the 3' end of the mRNA precursor of a eukaryotic gene. In the case of microbial genes which lack polyadenylated mRNA, random primers may be used. Random primers may also be useful for amplification from DNA. 
     
    
    [0135]
     Alternatively, the second primer sequence may be based upon sequences derived from the cloning vector. For example, the skilled artisan can follow the RACE protocol ( Frohman et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 85:8998 (1988 )) to generate cDNAs by using PCR to amplify copies of the region between a single point in the transcript and the 3' or 5' end. Primers oriented in the 3' and 5' directions can be designed from the instant sequences. Using commercially available 3' RACE or 5' RACE systems (BRL), specific 3' or 5' cDNA fragments can be isolated ( Ohara et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 86:5673 (1989 );  Loh et al., Science, 243:217 (1989 )). 
     
    
    [0136]
     Alternatively, the instant sequences may be employed as hybridization reagents for the identification of homologs. The basic components of a nucleic acid hybridization test include a probe, a sample suspected of containing the gene or gene fragment of interest, and a specific hybridization method. Probes of the present invention are typically single stranded nucleic acid sequences which are complementary to the nucleic acid sequences to be detected. Probes are "hybridizable" to the nucleic acid sequence to be detected. The probe length can vary from 5 bases to tens of thousands of bases, and will depend upon the specific test to be done. Typically, a probe length of about 15 bases to about 30 bases is suitable. Only part of the probe molecule need be complementary to the nucleic acid sequence to be detected. In addition, the complementarity between the probe and the target sequence need not be perfect. Hybridization does occur between imperfectly complementary molecules with the result that a certain fraction of the bases in the hybridized region are not paired with the proper complementary base. 
     
    
    [0137]
     Hybridization methods are well defined. Typically the probe and sample must be mixed under conditions which will permit nucleic acid hybridization. This involves contacting the probe and sample in the presence of an inorganic or organic salt under the proper concentration and temperature conditions. The probe and sample nucleic acids must be in contact for a long enough time that any possible hybridization between the probe and sample nucleic acid may occur. The concentration of probe or target in the mixture will determine the time necessary for hybridization to occur. The higher the probe or target concentration the shorter the hybridization incubation time needed. Optionally, a chaotropic agent may be added. The chaotropic agent stabilizes nucleic acids by inhibiting nuclease activity. Furthermore, the chaotropic agent allows sensitive and stringent hybridization of short oligonucleotide probes at room temperature ( Van Ness and Chen, Nucl. Acids Res., 19:5143-5151 (1991 )). Suitable chaotropic agents include guanidinium chloride, guanidinium thiocyanate, sodium thiocyanate, lithium tetrachloroacetate, sodium perchlorate, rubidium tetrachloroacetate, potassium iodide, and cesium trifluoroacetate, among others. Typically, the chaotropic agent will be present at a final concentration of about 3M. If desired, one can add formamide to the hybridization mixture, typically 30-50% (v/v). 
     
    
    [0138]
     Various hybridization solutions can be employed. Typically, these comprise from about 20 to 60% volume, preferably 30%, of a polar organic solvent. A common hybridization solution employs about 30-50% v/v formamide, about 0.15 to 1 M sodium chloride, about 0.05 to 0.1 M buffers, such as sodium citrate, Tris-HCl, PIPES or HEPES (pH range about 6-9), about 0.05 to 0.2% detergent, such as sodium dodecylsulfate, or between 0.5-20 mM EDTA, FICOLL (Pharmacia Inc.) (about 300-500 kilodaltons), polyvinylpyrrolidone (about 250-500 kD), and serum albumin. Also included in the typical hybridization solution will be unlabeled carrier nucleic acids from about 0.1 to 5 mg/mL, fragmented nucleic DNA, e.g., calf thymus or salmon sperm DNA, or yeast RNA, and optionally from about 0.5 to 2% wt./vol. glycine. Other additives may also be included, such as volume exclusion agents which include a variety of polar watersoluble or swellable agents, such as polyethylene glycol, anionic polymers such as polyacrylate or polymethylacrylate, and anionic saccharidic polymers, such as dextran sulfate. 
     
    
    [0139]
     Nucleic acid hybridization is adaptable to a variety of assay formats. One of the most suitable is the sandwich assay format. The sandwich assay is particularly adaptable to hybridization under non-denaturing conditions. A primary component of a sandwich-type assay is a solid support. The solid support has adsorbed to it or covalently coupled to it immobilized nucleic acid probe that is unlabeled and complementary to one portion of the sequence. 
     
    
    [0140]
     Availability of the instant nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences facilitates immunological screening DNA expression libraries. Synthetic peptides representing portions of the instant amino acid sequences may be synthesized. These peptides can be used to immunize animals to produce polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies with specificity for peptides or proteins comprising the amino acid sequences. These antibodies can be then be used to screen DNA expression libraries to isolate full-length DNA clones of interest ( Lerner, R. A., Adv. Immunol., 36:1 (1984 ); Maniatis,  supra ). 
   
 Genes Involved in Carotenoid Production 
 
   
    
    [0141]
     The enzymatic pathway involved in the biosynthesis of carotenoids can be conveniently viewed in two parts, the upper isoprenoid pathway providing for the conversion of pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, which provides for the synthesis of phytoene and all subsequently produced carotenoids. The upper pathway is ubiquitous in many non-carotogenic microorganisms and in these cases it will only be necessary to introduce genes that comprise the lower pathway for the biosynthesis of the desired carotenoid. The key division between the two pathways concerns the synthesis of farnesyl pyrophosphate. Where FPP is naturally present, only elements of the lower carotenoid pathway will be needed. However, it will be appreciated that for the lower pathway carotenoid genes to be effective in the production of carotenoids, it will be necessary for the host cell to have suitable levels of FPP within the cell. In another embodiment, isoprenoid biosynthesis genes may be optionally upregulated to increase the levels of FPP available for cartenoid biosynthesis. Where FPP synthesis is not provided by the host cell, it will be necessary to introduce the genes necessary for the production of FPP. Each of these pathways will be discussed below in detail. 
   
 The Upper Isoprenoid Pathway 
 
   
    
    [0142]
     Isoprenoid biosynthesis occurs through either of two pathways, generating the common C5 isoprene sub-unit, isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP). First, IPP may be synthesized through the well-known acetate/mevalonate pathway. However, recent studies have demonstrated that the mevalonate-dependent pathway does not operate in all living organisms. An alternate mevalonate-independent pathway for IPP biosynthesis has been characterized in bacteria and in green algae and higher plants ( Horbach et al., FEMS Microbiol. Lett., 111:135-140 (1993 );  Rohmer et al., Biochem., 295: 517-524 (1993 );  Schwender et al., Biochem., 316: 73-80 (1996 ); and  Eisenreich et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 93: 6431-6436 (1996 )). 
     
    
    [0143]
     Many steps in the mevalonate-independent isoprenoid pathway are known. For example, the initial steps of the alternate pathway leading to the production of IPP have been studied in  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  by  Cole et al. (Nature, 393:537-544 (1998 )). The first step of the pathway involves the condensation of two 3-carbon molecules (pyruvate and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate) to yield a 5-carbon compound known as D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate. This reaction occurs by the DXS enzyme, encoded by the  dxs  gene. Next, the isomerization and reduction of D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate yields 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate. One of the enzymes involved in the isomerization and reduction process is D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR), encoded by the gene  dxr  (also known as  ispC ). 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate is subsequently converted into 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol in a CTP-dependent reaction by the enzyme encoded by the non-annotated gene  ygbP.  Recently, however, the  ygbP  gene was renamed as  ispD  as a part of the  isp  gene cluster (SwissProtein Accession #Q46893). 
     
    
    [0144]
     Next, the 2 nd  position hydroxy group of 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol can be phosphorylated in an ATP-dependent reaction by the enzyme encoded by the  ychB  gene. YchB phosphorylates 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol, resulting in 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2-phosphate. The  ychB  gene was renamed as  ispE,  also as a part of the isp gene cluster (SwissProtein Accession #P24209). YgbB converts 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2-phosphate to 2C-methyl-D- erythritol  2,4-cyclodiphosphate in a CTP-dependent manner. This gene has also been recently renamed as  ispF  (SwissProtein Accession #P36663). 
     
    
    [0145]
     The enzymes encoded by the  gcpE  (also known as  ispG ) and  lytB  (also known as  ispH ) genes (and perhaps others) are thought to participate in the reactions leading to formation of isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) and dimethylallyl pyrophosphate (DMAPP). IPP may be isomerized to DMAPP via IPP isomerase, encoded by the  idi  gene. However, this enzyme is not essential for survival and may be absent in some bacteria using 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway. Recent evidence suggests that the MEP pathway branches before IPP and separately produces IPP and DMAPP via the  lytB  gene product. A  lytB  knockout mutation is lethal in  E .  coli  except in media supplemented with both IPP and DMAPP. 
     
    
    [0146]
     The synthesis of FPP occurs via the isomerization of IPP to dimethylallyl pyrophosphate. This reaction is followed by a sequence of two prenyltransferase reactions catalyzed by  ispA,  leading to the creation of geranyl pyrophosphate (GPP; a 10-carbon molecule) and farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP; a 15-carbon molecule). 
     
    
    [0147]
     Genes encoding elements of the upper pathway are known from a variety of plant, animal, and bacterial sources, as shown in Table 1.
     Table 1           Sources of Genes Encoding the Upper Isoprene Pathway           Gene       GenBank ®  Accession Number and Source Organism               dxs    (D-1-deoxyxylulose 5-phosphate synthase)   AF035440,  Escherichia coli         Y18874,  Synechococcus  PCC6301       AB026631,  Streptomyces sp.  CL190           AB042821,  Streptomyces griseolosporeus             AF111814,  Plasmodium falciparum             AF143812,  Lycopersicon esculentum             AJ279019,  Narcissus pseudonarcissus             AJ291721,  Nicotiana tabacum             dxr  ( ispC )  (1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomeras e)   AB013300,  Escherichia coli         AB049187,  Streptomyces griseolosporeus         AF111813,  Plasmodium falciparum             AF116825, Mentha x piperita           AF148852,  Arabidopsis thaliana             AF182287,  Artemisia annua             AF250235,  Catharanthus roseus             AF282879,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa             AJ242588,  Arabidopsis thaliana             AJ250714,  Zymomonas mobilis  strain ZM4           AJ292312,  Klebsiella pneumoniae,             AJ297566,  Zea mays             ygbP  ( ispD )  (2-C- methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate cytidylyltransfera se)   AB037876,  Arabidopsis thaliana         AF109075,  Clostridium difficile         AF230736,  Escherichia coli         AF230737,  Arabidopsis thaliana             ychB  ( ispE )  (4-diphosphocytidyl -2-C-methyl-D-erythritol kinase)   AF216300,  Escherichia coli         AF263101,  Lycopersicon esculentum         AF288615,  Arabidopsis thaliana             ygbB  ( ispF )  (2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphat e synthase)   AB038256,  Escherichia coli mecs  gene       AF230738,  Escherichia coli         AF250236,  Catharanthus roseus  (MECS)       AF279661,  Plasmodium falciparum         AF321531,  Arabidopsis thaliana             gcpE  ( ispG )  (1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate synthase)   067496,  Aquifex aeolicus         P54482,  Bacillus subtilis         Q9pky3,  Chlamydia muridarum         Q9Z8H0,  Chlamydophila pneumoniae             084060,  Chlamydia trachomatis             P27433,  Escherichia coli             P44667,  Haemophilus influenzae             Q9ZLL0,  Helicobacter pylori  J99           033350,  Mycobacterium tuberculosis             S77159,  Synechocystis  sp.           Q9WZZ3,  Thermotoga maritima             083460,  Treponema pallidum             Q9JZ40,  Neisseria meningitidis             Q9PPM1,  Campylobacter jejuni             Q9RXC9,  Deinococcus radiodurans             AAG07190,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa             Q9KTX1,  Vibrio cholerae             lytB  ( ispH )     AF027189,  Acinetobacter sp.  BD413       AF098521,  Burkholderia pseudomallei         AF291696,  Streptococcus pneumoniae             AF323927,  Plasmodium falciparum  gene           M87645,  Bacillus subtillis             U38915,  Synechocystis sp.             X89371,  C .  jejunisp  067496           ispA    (FPP synthase)   AB003187,  Micrococcus luteus         AB016094,  Synechococcus elongatus         AB021747,  Oryza sativa FPPS1  gene for farnesyl diphosphate synthase       AB028044,  Rhodobacter sphaeroides             AB028046,  Rhodobacter capsulatus             AB028047,  Rhodovulum sulfidophilum             AF112881 and AF136602,  Artemisia annua             AF384040,  Mentha  x piperita           D00694,  Escherichia coli             D 13293,  B .  stearothermophilus             D85317,  Oryza sativa             X75789,  A. thaliana             Y12072,  G .  arboreum             Z49786,  H. brasiliensis             U80605,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase precursor  (FPS1)  mRNA, complete cds           X76026,  K. lactis FPS  gene for farnesyl diphosphate synthetase, QCR8 gene for bc1 complex, subunit VIII           X82542, P.argentatum mRNA for farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS1)           X82543,  P. argentatum  mRNA for farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS2)           BC010004,  Homo sapiens,  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase), clone MGC 15352 IMAGE, 4132071, mRNA, complete cds           AF234168,  Dictyostelium discoideum  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (Dfps)           L46349,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase  (FPS2)  mRNA, complete cds           L46350,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase  (FPS2)  gene, complete cds           L46367,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS1) gene, alternative products, complete cds           M89945, Rat farnesyl diphosphate synthase gene, exons 1-8           NM_002004,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase)  (FDPS),  mRNA           U36376,  Artemisia annua  farnesyl diphosphate synthase ( fps1 ) mRNA, complete cds           XM_001352,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase)  (FDPS),  mRNA           XM_034497,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase)  (FDPS),  mRNA           XM_034498,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase) ( FDPS ), mRNA           XM_034499,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase)  (FDPS),  mRNA           XM_0345002,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase)  (FDPS),  mRNA           
   
 The Lower Carotenoid Biosynthetic Pathway 
 
   
    
    [0148]
     The division between the upper isoprenoid pathway and the lower carotenoid pathway is somewhat subjective Because FPP synthesis is common in both carotenogenic and non-carotenogenic bacteria, the first step in the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is considered to begin with the prenyltransferase reaction converting farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) to geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP). The gene  crtE , encoding GGPP synthetase, is responsible for this prenyltransferase reaction which adds IPP to FPP to produce the 20-carbon molecule GGPP. A condensation reaction of two molecules of GGPP occurs to form phytoene (PPPP), the first 40-carbon molecule of the lower carotenoid biosynthesis pathway. This enzymatic reaction is catalyzed by  crtB , encoding phytoene synthase. 
     
    
    [0149]
     Lycopene, which imparts a "red" colored spectra, is produced from phytoene through four sequential dehydrogenation reactions by the removal of eight atoms of hydrogen, catalyzed by the gene  crtI  (encoding phytoene desaturase). Intermediaries in this reaction are phytofluene, zeta-carotene, and neurosporene. 
     
    
    [0150]
     Lycopene cyclase ( crtY ) converts lycopene to β-carotene. In the present invention, a reporter plasmid is used which produces β-carotene as the genetic end product. However, additional genes may be used to create a variety of other carotenoids. For example, β-carotene is converted to zeaxanthin via a hydroxylation reaction resulting from the activity of β-carotene hydroxylase (encoded by the  crtZ  gene). β-cryptoxanthin is an intermediate in this reaction. 
     
    
    [0151]
     β-carotene is converted to canthaxanthin by β-carotene ketolase encoded by either the  crtW  or  crtO  gene. Echinenone in an intermediate in this reaction. Canthaxanthin can then be converted to astaxanthin by β-carotene hydroxylase encoded by the  crtZ  or  crtR  gene. Adonbirubrin is an intermediate in this reaction. 
     
    
    [0152]
     Zeaxanthin can be converted to zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside. This reaction is catalyzed by zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase ( crtX ). 
     
    
    [0153]
     Genes encoding elements of the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway are known from a variety of plant, animal, and bacterial sources, as shown in Table 2.
     Table 2           Sources of Genes Encoding the Lower Carotenoid Biosynthetic Pathway             Gene           GenBank Accession Number and Source Organism                 crtE  (GGPP Synthase)     AB000835,  Arabidopsis thaliana         AB016043 and AB019036,  Homo sapiens         AB016044,  Mus musculus         AB027705 and AB027706,  Daucus carota         AB034249,  Croton sublyratus         AB034250,  Scoparia dulcis         AF020041,  Helianthus annuus         AF049658,  Drosophila melanogaster  signal recognition particle 19kDa protein ( srp19 ) gene,partial sequence; and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( quemao ) gene,complete cds       AF049659,  Drosophila melanogaster  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase mRNA, complete cds       AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens         AF279807,  Penicillium paxilli  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( ggs1 ) gene, complete       AF279808,  Penicillium paxilli  dimethylallyl tryptophan synthase ( paxD ) gene, partial cds;and cytochrome       P450 monooxygenase ( paxQ ), cytochrome P450 monooxygenase ( paxP ),PaxC ( paxC ) ,  monooxygenase ( paxM ) ,  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( paxG ),PaxU ( paxU ), and metabolite transporter ( paxT ) genes, complete cds       AJ010302,  Rhodobacter sphaeroides             AJ 133724,  Mycobacterium aurum             AJ276129,  Mucor circinelloides f. lusitanicus carG  gene for geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, exons 1-6           D85029,  Arabidopsis thaliana  mRNA for geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, partial cds           L25813,  Arabidopsis thaliana             L37405,  Streptomyces griseus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( crtB ), phytoene desaturase ( crtE ) and phytoene synthase ( crt I) genes, complete cds           U15778,  Lupinus albus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( ggps1 ) mRNA, complete cds           U44876,  Arabidopsis thaliana  pregeranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( GGPS2 ) mRNA, complete cds           X92893,  C .  roseus             X95596,  S .  griseus             X98795,  S .  alba             Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii             crtX    (Zeaxanthin glucosylase)   D90087,  E. uredovora         M87280 and M90698,  Pantoea agglomerans             crtY    (Lycopene-β-cyclase)   AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens         AF152246,  Citrus  x paradisi       AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp.  ORS278       AF272737,  Streptomyces griseus  strain IFO13350       AJ133724,  Mycobacterium aurum         AJ250827,  Rhizomucor circinelloides  f.  lusitanicus carRP  gene for lycopene cyclase/phytoene synthase, exons 1-2       AJ276965,  Phycomyces blakesleeanus carRA  gene for phytoene synthase/lycopene cyclase, exons 1-2       D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum         D83513,  Erythrobacter longus         L40176,  Arabidopsis thaliana  lycopene cyclase ( LYC ) mRNA, complete cds       M87280,  Pantoea agglomerans         U50738,  Arabodopsis thaliana  lycopene epsilon cyclase mRNA, complete cds       U50739,  Arabidosis thaliana  lycopene β cyclase mRNA, complete cds       U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588       X74599,  Synechococcus sp. Icy  gene for lycopene cyclase       X81787,  N. tabacum CrtL-1  gene encoding lycopene cyclase       X86221,  C .  annuum         X86452,  L .  esculentum  mRNA for lycopene β-cyclase       X95596,  S. griseus         X98796,  N. pseudonarcissus             crtI    (Phytoene desaturase)   AB046992,  Citrus unshiu CitPDS1  mRNA for phytoene desaturase, complete cds       AF039585, Zea  mays  phytoene desaturase ( pds1 ) gene promoter region and exon 1       AF049356,  Oryza sativa  phytoene desaturase precursor (Pds) mRNA, complete cds       AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens         AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp.  ORS278       AF251014,  Tagetes erecta         AF364515,  Citrus  x paradisi       D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum         D83514, Erythrobacter longus       L16237,  Arabidopsis thaliana         L37405,  Streptomyces griseus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase (crtB), phytoene desaturase ( crtE ) and phytoene synthase (crtl) genes, complete cds       L39266,  Zea mays  phytoene desaturase (Pds) mRNA, complete cds       M64704, Soybean phytoene desaturase       M88683,  Lycopersicon esculentum  phytoene desaturase (pds) mRNA, complete cds       S71770, carotenoid gene cluster       U37285,  Zea mays         U46919,  Solanum lycopersicum  phytoene desaturase (Pds) gene, partial cds       U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588       X55289,  Synechococcus pds  gene for phytoene desaturase       X59948,  L .  esculentum         X62574,  Synechocystis sp.  pds gene for phytoene desaturase       X68058,  C .  annuum pds1  mRNA for phytoene desaturase       X71023,  Lycopersicon esculentum pds  gene for phytoene desaturase       X78271,  L .  esculentum  (Ailsa Craig) PDS gene       X78434,  P .  blakesleeanus  (NRRL1555) carB gene       X78815,  N .  pseudonarcissus         X86783,  H. pluvialis         Y14807,  Dunaliella bardawil         Y15007,  Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous         Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii         Y15114,  Anabaena  PCC7210  crtP  gene       Z11165,  R .  capsulatus           crtB  (Phytoene synthase)   AB001284,  Spirulina platensis         AB032797,  Daucus carota PSY  mRNA for phytoene synthase, complete cds       AB034704,  Rubrivivax gelatinosus         AB037975,  Citrus unshiu         AF009954,  Arabidopsis thaliana  phytoene synthase (PSY) gene, complete cds       AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens         AF152892,  Citrus  x paradisi       AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp.  ORS278       AF220218,  Citrus unshiu  phytoene synthase ( Psy1 ) mRNA, complete cds       AJ010302,  Rhodobacter         AJ133724,  Mycobacterium aurum         AJ278287,  Phycomyces blakesleeanus carRA  gene for lycopene cyclase/phytoene synthase,       AJ304825,  Helianthus annuus  mRNA for phytoene synthase ( psy  gene)       AJ308385,  Helianthus annuus  mRNA for phytoene synthase ( psy  gene)       D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum         L23424,  Lycopersicon esculentum  phytoene synthase  (PSY2)  mRNA, complete cds       L25812,  Arabidopsis thaliana         L37405,  Streptomyces griseus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( crtB ), phytoene desaturase ( crtE ) and phytoene synthase ( crtI ) genes, complete cds       M38424,  Pantoea agglomerans  phytoene synthase ( crtE ) gene, complete cds       M87280,  Pantoea agglomerans         S71770, Carotenoid gene cluster       U32636,  Zea mays  phytoene synthase  (Y1)  gene, complete cds       U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588       U87626,  Rubrivivax gelatinosus         U91900,  Dunaliella bardawil         X52291,  Rhodobacter capsulatus         X60441,  L. esculentum GTom5  gene for phytoene synthase       X63873,  Synechococcus  PCC7942  pys  gene for phytoene synthase       X68017,  C .  annuum psy1  mRNA for phytoene synthase       X69172,  Synechocystis sp. pys  gene for phytoene synthase       X78814,  N. pseudonarcissus             crtZ    (β-carotene hydroxylase)   D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum         D58422,  Alcaligenes sp.         D90087,  E .  uredovora         M87280,  Pantoea agglomerans         U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588       Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii             crtW    (β-carotene ketolase)   AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp.  ORS278       D45881,  Haematococcus pluvialis         D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum         D58422,  Alcaligenes sp.         X86782,  H. pluvialis         Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii             
     
    
    [0154]
     Preferred sources of the non- crtW  carotenoid genes are from  Pantoea stewartii  (ATCC 8199;    WO 02/079395   ),  Enterobactericeae  DC260 (     US  10/808979   ), and  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (     US  10/808807   ). Preferred sources of  crtW  genes are from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (SEQ ID NO:1),  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (SEQ ID NO:3), and  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C (SEQ ID NO:5). 
     
    
    [0155]
     By using various combinations of the genes presented in Table 2 and the preferred  crtW  genes of the present invention, numerous different carotenoids and carotenoid derivatives could be made using the methods of the present invention, provided that sufficient sources of FPP are available in the host organism. For example, the gene cluster  crtEXYIB  enables the production of β-carotene. The addition of the  crtW  gene to  crtEXYIB  enables the production of canthaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0156]
     It is envisioned that useful products of the present invention will include any ketocarotenoid compound as defined herein including, but not limited to antheraxanthin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, keto-γ-carotene, echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, and C 30 -ketocarotenoids. 
   
 Recombinant Expression - Microbial 
 
   
    
    [0157]
     The gene and gene product of the instant sequences may be produced in heterologous host cells, particularly in the cells of microbial hosts. Expression in recombinant microbial hosts may be useful for the expression of various pathway intermediates, for the modulation of pathways already existing in the host, or for the synthesis of new products heretofore not possible using the host. 
     
    
    [0158]
     Preferred heterologous host cells for expression of the instant genes and nucleic acid fragments are microbial hosts that can be found broadly within the fungal or bacterial families and which grow over a wide range of temperature, pH values, and solvent tolerances. For example, it is contemplated that any of bacteria, yeast, and filamentous fungi will be suitable hosts for expression of the present nucleic acid fragments. Because of transcription, translation and the protein biosynthetic apparatus is the same irrespective of the cellular feedstock, functional genes are expressed irrespective of carbon feedstock used to generate cellular biomass. Large-scale microbial growth and functional gene expression may utilize a wide range of simple or complex carbohydrates, organic acids and alcohols, saturated hydrocarbons such as methane or carbon dioxide in the case of photosynthetic or chemoautotrophic hosts. However, the functional genes may be regulated, repressed or depressed by specific growth conditions, which may include the form and amount of nitrogen, phosphorous, sulfur, oxygen, carbon or any trace micronutrient including small inorganic ions. In addition, the regulation of functional genes may be achieved by the presence or absence of specific regulatory molecules that are added to the culture and are not typically considered nutrient or energy sources. Growth rate may also be an important regulatory factor in gene expression. Examples of host strains include, but are not limited to bacterial, fungal or yeast species such as  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Hansenula,  or bacterial species such as  Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter, Chlorobium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella,  and  Myxococcus.  In one embodiment, suitable bacterial host strains include  Escherichia, Bacillus,  and  Methylomonas.   
     
    
    [0159]
     Microbial expression systems and expression vectors containing regulatory sequences that direct high level expression of foreign proteins are well known to those skilled in the art. Any of these could be used to construct chimeric genes for expression of present ketolases. These chimeric genes could then be introduced into appropriate microorganisms via transformation to provide high level expression of the enzymes 
     
    
    [0160]
     Accordingly, it is expected that introduction of chimeric genes encoding the instant bacterial enzymes under the control of the appropriate promoters will demonstrate increased or altered cyclic ketocarotenoid production. It is contemplated that it will be useful to express the instant genes both in natural host cells as well as heterologous host. Introduction of the present  crtW  genes into native host will result in altered levels of existing ketocarotenoid production. Additionally, the instant genes may also be introduced into non-native host bacteria where the existing carotenoid pathway may be manipulated. 
     
    
    [0161]
     Specific ketocarotenoids that will be produced by the present invention include, but are not limited to canthaxanthin, astaxanthin, adonixanthin, adonirubin, echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, 4-keto-gamma-carotene, 4-keto-rubixanthin, 4-keto-torulene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-torulene, deoxyflexixanthin, and myxobactone. Of particular interest is the production of astaxanthin and canthaxanthin, the synthesis of which is shown in  Figure 1 . The specific substrate for the present CrtW enzymes is a cyclic carotenoid. Cyclic carotenoids are well known in the art and available commercially. Preferred in the present invention are CrtW ketolase substrates that include, but are not limited to β-carotene, γ-carotene, zeaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, rubixanthin, echinenone, and torulene. 
     
    
    [0162]
     Vectors or cassettes useful for the transformation of suitable host cells are well known in the art. Typically the vector or cassette contains sequences directing transcription and translation of the relevant gene, a selectable marker, and sequences allowing autonomous replication or chromosomal integration. Suitable vectors comprise a region 5' of the gene which harbors transcriptional initiation controls and a region 3' of the DNA fragment which controls transcriptional termination. It is most preferred when both control regions are derived from genes homologous to the transformed host cell, although it is to be understood that such control regions need not be derived from the genes native to the specific species chosen as a production host. 
     
    
    [0163]
     Initiation control regions or promoters, which are useful to drive expression of the instant ORF's in the desired host cell are numerous and familiar to those skilled in the art. Virtually any promoter capable of driving these genes is suitable for the present invention including but not limited to  CYC1, HIS3, GAL1, GAL10, ADH1, PGK, PHO5, GAPDH, ADC1, TRP1, URA3, LEU2, ENO, TPI  (useful for expression in  Saccharomyces );  AOX1  (useful for expression in  Pichia ); and  lac, ara, tet, trp, IP L , IP R , T7, tac,  and  trc  (useful for expression in  Escherichia coli ) as well as the  amy, apr, npr  promoters and various phage promoters useful for expression in  Bacillus,  and promoters isolated from the  nrtA, glnB, moxF, glyoxII, htpG,  and  hps  genes useful for expression in  Methylomonas  (     US  10/689200   ). Additionally, promoters such as the chloramphenicol resistance gene promoter may also be useful for expression in  Methylomonas.   
     
    
    [0164]
     Termination control regions may also be derived from various genes native to the preferred hosts. Optionally, a termination site may be unnecessary, however, it is most preferred if included. 
     
    
    [0165]
     Knowledge of the sequence of the present gene will be useful in manipulating the carotenoid biosynthetic pathways in any organism having such a pathway and particularly in  Methylomonas sp.  16a and  Escherichia coli.  Methods of manipulating genetic pathways are common and well known in the art. Selected genes in a particularly pathway may be upregulated or down regulated by variety of methods. Additionally, competing pathways organism may be eliminated or sublimated by gene disruption and similar techniques. 
     
    
    [0166]
     Once a key genetic pathway has been identified and sequenced specific genes may be upregulated to increase the output of the pathway. For example, additional copies of the targeted genes may be introduced into the host cell on multicopy plasmids such as pBR322. Alternatively the target genes may be modified so as to be under the control of non-native promoters. Where it is desired that a pathway operate at a particular point in a cell cycle or during a fermentation run, regulated or inducible promoters may used to replace the native promoter of the target gene. Similarly, in some cases the native or endogenous promoter may be modified to increase gene expression. For example, endogenous promoters can be altered  in vivo  by mutation, deletion, and/or substitution (see, Kmiec,    US 5,565,350   ;    Zarling et al., PCT/US93/03868   ). 
     
    
    [0167]
     Alternatively it may be necessary to reduce or eliminate the expression of certain genes in the target pathway or in competing pathways that may serve as competing sinks for energy or carbon. Methods of down-regulating genes for this purpose have been explored. Where sequence of the gene to be disrupted is known, one of the most effective methods gene down regulation is targeted gene disruption where foreign DNA is inserted into a structural gene so as to disrupt transcription. This can be effected by the creation of genetic cassettes comprising the DNA to be inserted (often a genetic marker) flanked by sequence having a high degree of homology to a portion of the gene to be disrupted. Introduction of the cassette into the host cell results in insertion of the foreign DNA into the structural gene via the native DNA replication mechanisms of the cell. (See for example  Hamilton et al., J. Bacteriol., 171:4617-4622 (1989 ),  Balbas et al., Gene, 136:211-213 (1993 ),  Gueldener et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 24:2519-2524 (1996 ), and  Smith et al., Methods Mol. Cell. Biol., 5:270-277 (1996 )). 
     
    
    [0168]
     Antisense technology is another method of down regulating genes where the sequence of the target gene is known. To accomplish this, a nucleic acid segment from the desired gene is cloned and operably linked to a promoter such that the anti-sense strand of RNA will be transcribed. This construct is then introduced into the host cell and the antisense strand of RNA is produced. Antisense RNA inhibits gene expression by preventing the accumulation of mRNA that encodes the protein of interest. The person skilled in the art will know that special considerations are associated with the use of antisense technologies in order to reduce expression of particular genes. For example, the proper level of expression of antisense genes may require the use of different chimeric genes utilizing different regulatory elements known to the skilled artisan. 
     
    
    [0169]
     Although targeted gene disruption and antisense technology offer effective means of down regulating genes where the sequence is known, other less specific methodologies have been developed that are not sequence based. For example, cells may be exposed to UV radiation and then screened for the desired phenotype. Mutagenesis with chemical agents is also effective for generating mutants and commonly used substances include chemicals that affect nonreplicating DNA such as HNO 2  and NH 2 OH, as well as agents that affect replicating DNA such as acridine dyes, notable for causing frameshift mutations. Specific methods for creating mutants using radiation or chemical agents are well documented in the art. See for example  Thomas D. Brock in Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology, Second Edition (1989) Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, MA ., or  Deshpande, Mukund V., Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol., 36, 227, (1992 ). 
     
    
    [0170]
     Another non-specific method of gene disruption is the use of transposable elements or transposons. Transposons are genetic elements that insert randomly in DNA but can be latter retrieved on the basis of sequence to determine where the insertion has occurred. Both  in vivo  and  in vitro  transposition methods are known. Both methods involve the use of a transposable element in combination with a transposase enzyme. When the transposable element or transposon, is contacted with a nucleic acid fragment in the presence of the transposase, the transposable element will randomly insert into the nucleic acid fragment. The technique is useful for random mutageneis and for gene isolation, since the disrupted gene may be identified on the basis of the sequence of the transposable element. Kits for  in vitro  transposition are commercially available (see for example The Primer Island Transposition Kit, available from Perkin Elmer Applied Biosystems, Branchburg, NJ, based upon the yeast Ty1 element; The Genome Priming System, available from New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA; based upon the bacterial transposon Tn7; and the EZ::TN Transposon Insertion Systems, available from Epicentre Technologies, Madison, WI, based upon the Tn5 bacterial transposable element. 
   
 Methylotrophs and  Methylomonas sp.  16a as Microbial Hosts 
 
   
    
    [0171]
     Although a number of carotenoids have been produced from recombinant microbial sources [e.g.,  E. coli  and  Candida utilis  for production of lycopene ( Farmer W.R. and J.C. Liao, Biotechnol. Prog., 17: 57-61 (2001 );  Wang C. et al., Biotechnol Prog., 16: 922-926 (2000 );  Misawa, N. and H. Shimada, J. Biotechnol., 59: 169-181 (1998 );  Shimada, H., et al., Appl. Environm. Microbiol., 64:2676-2680 (1998 ));  E. coli, Candida utilis  and  Pfaffia rhodozyma  for production of β-carotene ( Albrecht, M. et al., Biotechnol. Lett., 21: 791-795 (1999 );  Miura, Y. et al., Appl. Environm. Microbiol., 64:1226-1229 (1998 );    US 5,691,190   );  E. coli  and  Candida utilis  for production of zeaxanthin (Albrecht, M. et al.,  supra ; Miura, Y. et al.,  supra );  E. coli  and  Pfaffia rhodozyma  for production of astaxanthin (   US 5,466,599   ;    US 6,015,684   ;    US 5,182,208   ;    US 5,972,642   ); see also:    US 5,656,472   ,    US 5,545,816   ,    US 5,530,189   ,    US 5,530,188   ,    US 5,429,939   , and    US 6,124,113   ), these methods of producing carotenoids using various combinations of different  crt  genes suffer from low yields and reliance on relatively expensive feedstocks. Thus, it would be desirable to identify a method that produces higher yields of carotenoids in a microbial host from an inexpensive feedstock. 
There are a number of microorganisms that utilize single carbon substrates as their sole energy source. Such microorganisms are referred to herein as "C1 metabolizers". These organisms are characterized by the ability to use carbon substrates lacking carbon to carbon bonds as a sole source of energy and biomass. These carbon substrates include, but are not limited to: methane, methanol, formate, formaldehyde, formic acid, methylated amines (e.g., mono-, di- and tri-methyl amine), methylated thiols, carbon dioxide, and various other reduced carbon compounds which lack any carbon-carbon bonds. In one embodiment, the single carbon substrate is selected from the group consisting of methane and methanol. All C1 metabolizing microorganisms are generally classified as methylotrophs. Methylotrophs may be defined as any organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. However, facultative methylotrophs, obligate methylotrophs, and obligate methanotrophs are all various subsets of methylotrophs. Specifically:
       Facultative methylotrophs have the ability to oxidize organic compounds which do not contain carbon-carbon bonds, but may also use other carbon substrates such as sugars and complex carbohydrates for energy and biomass. Facultative methylotrophic bacteria are found in many environments, but are isolated most commonly from soil, landfill and waste treatment sites. Many facultative methylotrophs are members of the β and γ subgroups of the Proteobacteria ( Hanson et al., Micron. Growth C1 Compounds., [Int. Symp.], 7th (1993), pp 285-302. Murrell, J. Collin and Don P. Kelly, Eds. Intercept: Andover, UK ;  Madigan et al., Brock Biology of Microorganisms, 8th ed., Prentice Hall: UpperSaddle River, NJ (1997 )).   Obligate methylotrophs are those organisms that are limited to the use of organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds for the generation of energy.   Obligate methanotrophs are those obligate methylotrophs that have the distinct ability to oxidize methane.   
   
    
    [0172]
     Additionally, the ability to utilize single carbon substrates is not limited to bacteria but extends also to yeasts and fungi. A number of yeast genera are able to use single carbon substrates as energy sources in addition to more complex materials (i.e., the methylotrophic yeasts). 
     
    
    [0173]
     Although a large number of these methylotrophic organisms are known, few of these microbes have been successfully harnessed in industrial processes for the synthesis of materials. And, although single carbon substrates are cost-effective energy sources, difficulty in genetic manipulation of these microorganisms as well as a dearth of information about their genetic machinery has limited their use primarily to the synthesis of native products. 
     
    
    [0174]
     Despite these hardships, many methanotrophs contain an inherent isoprenoid pathway that enables these organisms to synthesize pigments and provides the potential for one to envision engineering these microorganisms for production of various non-endogenous isoprenoid compounds. Since methanotrophs can use single carbon substrates (i.e., methane and/or methanol) as an energy source, it could be possible to produce carotenoids at low cost in these organisms. One such example wherein a methanotroph is engineered for production of β-carotene is described in    US 09/941947   . 
     
    
    [0175]
     Methods are provided for the expression of genes involved in the biosynthesis of carotenoid compounds in microorganisms that are able to use single carbon substrates as a sole energy source. The host microorganism may be any C1 metabolizer that has the ability to synthesize farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) as a metabolic precursor for carotenoids. More specifically, facultative methylotrophic bacteria suitable in the present invention include, but are not limited to  Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas,  and  Pseudomonas.  Specific methylotrophic yeasts useful in the present invention include, but are not limited to:  Candida, Hansenula, Pichia, Torulopsis,  and  Rhodotorula.  Exemplary methanotrophs include, but are not limited to the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium,  and  Methanomonas.   
     
    
    [0176]
     Of particular interest in the present invention are high growth obligate methanotrophs having an energetically favorable carbon flux pathway. For example, a specific strain of methanotroph having several pathway features that makes it particularly useful for carbon flux manipulation. This strain is known as  Methylomonas 16a  (ATCC PTA 2402) (   US 6,689,601   ); and, this particular strain and other related methylotrophs are preferred microbial hosts for expression of the gene products of this invention, useful for the production of C 40  carotenoids. 
     
    
    [0177]
     An optimized version of Methylomonas sp. 16a has been created and designated as  Methylomonas sp.  16a MWM1200 (   US 60/527083   ). The endogenous C 30  carotenoid pathway has been knocked-out (Δ crt  cluster promoter + Δ crtN3 ), creating an optimized platform for C 40  carotenoid production. The deletion of the promoter responsible for expression of the endogenous crt cluster ( crtN1-ald-crtN2  cluster) resulted in a non-pigmented strain (the wild type strain in normally pink in color due to its naturally production of C 30  carotenoids). Expression of C 40  carotenoid biosynthesis genes within this optimized host enables increased production of the desired C 40  carotenoids. 
   
 Transformation of C1 Metabolizing Bacteria 
 
   
    
    [0178]
     Techniques for the transformation of C1 metabolizing bacteria are not well developed, although general methodology that is utilized for other bacteria, which is well known to those of skill in the art, may be applied. Electroporation has been used successfully for the transformation of:  Methylobacterium extorquens  AM1 ( Toyama, H., et al., FEMS Microbiol. Lett., 166:1-7 (1998 )),  Methylophilus methylotrophus  AS1 ( Kim, C.S., and T. K. Wood, Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol., 48: 105-108 (1997 )), and  Methylobacillus sp.  strain 12S ( Yoshida, T., et al., Biotechnol. Lett., 23: 787-791 (2001 )). Extrapolation of specific electroporation parameters from one specific C1 metabolizing utilizing organism to another may be difficult, however, as is well to known to those of skill in the art. 
     
    
    [0179]
     Bacterial conjugation, relying on the direct contact of donor and recipient cells, is frequently more readily amenable for the transfer of genes into C1 metabolizing bacteria. Simplistically, this bacterial conjugation process involves mixing together "donor" and "recipient" cells in close contact with one another. Conjugation occurs by formation of cytoplasmic connections between donor and recipient bacteria, with direct transfer of newly synthesized donor DNA into the recipient cells. As is well known in the art, the recipient in a conjugation is defined as any cell that can accept DNA through horizontal transfer from a donor bacterium. The donor in conjugative transfer is a bacterium that contains a conjugative plasmid, conjugative transposon, or mobilizable plasmid. The physical transfer of the donor plasmid can occur in one of two fashions, as described below:
       1. In some cases, only a donor and recipient are required for conjugation. This occurs when the plasmid to be transferred is a self-transmissible plasmid that is both conjugative and mobilizable (i.e., carrying both  tra  genes and genes encoding the Mob proteins). In general, the process involves the following steps: 1.) Double-strand plasmid DNA is nicked at a specific site in  ori T; 2.) A single-strand DNA is released to the recipient through a pore or pilus structure; 3.) A DNA relaxase enzyme cleaves the double-strand DNA at  ori T and binds to a release 5' end (forming a relaxosome as the intermediate structure); and 4.) Subsequently, a complex of auxiliary proteins assemble at  ori T to facilitate the process of DNA transfer.   2. Alternatively, a "triparental" conjugation is required for transfer of the donor plasmid to the recipient. In this type of conjugation, donor cells, recipient cells, and a "helper" plasmid participate. The donor cells carry a mobilizable plasmid or conjugative transposon. Mobilizable vectors contain an  ori T, a gene encoding a nickase, and have genes encoding the Mob proteins; however, the Mob proteins alone are not sufficient to achieve the transfer of the genome. Thus, mobilizable plasmids are not able to promote their own transfer unless an appropriate conjugation system is provided by a helper plasmid (located within the donor or within a "helper" cell). The conjugative plasmid is needed for the formation of the mating pair and DNA transfer, since the plasmid encodes proteins for transfer (Tra) that are involved in the formation of the pore or pilus.   
   
    
    [0180]
     Examples of successful conjugations involving C1 metabolizing bacteria include the work of:  Stolyar et al. (Mikrobiologiya, 64(5): 686-691 (1995 ));  Motoyama, H. et al. (Appl. Micro. Biotech., 42(1): 67-72 (1994 ));  Lloyd, J.S. et al. (Archives of Microbiology, 171 (6): 364-370 (1999 )); and    Odom, J. M. et al. (US 09/941947   ). 
   
 Industrial Production 
 
   
    
    [0181]
     Where commercial production of cyclic ketocarotenoid compounds is desired using the present  crtW  genes, a variety of culture methodologies may be applied. For example, large-scale production of a specific gene product overexpressed from a recombinant microbial host may be produced by both batch and continuous culture methodologies. 
     
    
    [0182]
     A classical batch culturing method is a closed system where the composition of the media is set at the beginning of the culture and not subject to artificial alterations during the culturing process. Thus, at the beginning of the culturing process the media is inoculated with the desired organism or organisms and growth or metabolic activity is permitted to occur adding nothing to the system. Typically, however, a "batch" culture is batch with respect to the addition of carbon source and attempts are often made at controlling factors such as pH and oxygen concentration. In batch systems the metabolite and biomass compositions of the system change constantly up to the time the culture is terminated. Within batch cultures cells moderate through a static lag phase to a high growth log phase and finally to a stationary phase where growth rate is diminished or halted. If untreated, cells in the stationary phase will eventually die. Cells in log phase are often responsible for the bulk of production of end product or intermediate in some systems. Stationary or post-exponential phase production can be obtained in other systems. 
     
    
    [0183]
     A variation on the standard batch system is the fed-batch system. Fed-batch culture processes are also suitable in the present invention and comprise a typical batch system with the exception that the substrate is added in increments as the culture progresses. Fed-batch systems are useful when catabolite repression is apt to inhibit the metabolism of the cells and where it is desirable to have limited amounts of substrate in the media. Measurement of the actual substrate concentration in fed-batch systems is difficult and is therefore estimated on the basis of the changes of measurable factors such as pH, dissolved oxygen and the partial pressure of waste gases such as CO 2 . Batch and fed-batch culturing methods are common and well known in the art and examples may be found in  Thomas D. Brock in Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology. Second Edition (1989) Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, MA ., or  Deshpande, Mukund V., Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol., 36:227, (1992 ). 
     
    
    [0184]
     Commercial production of cyclic ketocarotenoids may also be accomplished with a continuous culture. Continuous cultures are an open system where a defined culture media is added continuously to a bioreactor and an equal amount of conditioned media is removed simultaneously for processing. Continuous cultures generally maintain the cells at a constant high liquid phase density where cells are primarily in log phase growth. Alternatively continuous culture may be practiced with immobilized cells where carbon and nutrients are continuously added, and valuable products, by-products or waste products are continuously removed from the cell mass. Cell immobilization may be performed using a wide range of solid supports composed of natural and/or synthetic materials. 
     
    
    [0185]
     Continuous or semi-continuous culture allows for the modulation of one factor or any number of factors that affect cell growth or end product concentration. For example, one method will maintain a limiting nutrient such as the carbon source or nitrogen level at a fixed rate and allow all other parameters to moderate. In other systems a number of factors affecting growth can be altered continuously while the cell concentration, measured by media turbidity, is kept constant. Continuous systems strive to maintain steady state growth conditions and thus the cell loss due to media being drawn off must be balanced against the cell growth rate in the culture. Methods of modulating nutrients and growth factors for continuous culture processes as well as techniques for maximizing the rate of product formation are well known in the art of industrial microbiology and a variety of methods are detailed by Brock,  supra.   
     
    
    [0186]
     Fermentation media in the present invention must contain suitable carbon substrates. Suitable substrates may include but are not limited to monosaccharides such as glucose and fructose, disaccharides such as lactose or sucrose, polysaccharides such as starch or cellulose or mixtures thereof and unpurified mixtures from renewable feedstocks such as cheese whey permeate, cornsteep liquor, sugar beet molasses, and barley malt. Additionally the carbon substrate may also be one-carbon substrates such as carbon dioxide, methane, and/or methanol for which metabolic conversion into key biochemical intermediates has been demonstrated. In addition to one and two carbon substrates methylotrophic organisms are also known to utilize a number of other carbon containing compounds such as methylamine, glucosamine and a variety of amino acids for metabolic activity. For example, methylotrophic yeast are known to utilize the carbon from methylamine to form trehalose or glycerol ( Bellion et al., Microb. Growth C1 Compd., [Int. Symp.], 7th (1993), 415-32. Editor(s): Murrell, J. Collin; Kelly, Don P. Publisher: Intercept, Andover, UK ). Similarly, various species of  Candida  will metabolize alanine or oleic acid ( Sulter et al., Arch. Microbiol., 153:485-489 (1990 )). Hence it is contemplated that the source of carbon utilized in the present invention may encompass a wide variety of carbon containing substrates and will only be limited by the choice of organism. 
   
 Recombinant Expression - Plants 
 
   
    
    [0187]
     Plants and algae are also known to produce carotenoid compounds. The nucleic acid fragments of the instant invention may be used to create transgenic plants having the ability to express the microbial protein. Preferred plant hosts will be any variety that will support a high production level of the instant proteins. Suitable green plants will include, but are not limited to soybean, rapeseed  (Brassica napus, B. campestris),  pepper, sunflower  (Helianthus annus),  cotton  (Gossypium hirsutum),  corn, tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum ), alfalfa ( Medicago sativa ), wheat  (Triticum  sp), barley  (Hordeum vulgare),  oats  (Avena sativa, L),  sorghum  (Sorghum bicolor ), rice ( Oryza sativa ),  Arabidopsis,  cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, parsnips, etc.), melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, and forage grasses. Algal species include, but not limited to commercially significant hosts such as  Spirulina, Haemotacoccus,  and  Dunalliela.  Production of the carotenoid compounds may be accomplished by first constructing chimeric genes of present invention in which the coding region are operably linked to promoters capable of directing expression of a gene in the desired tissues at the desired stage of development. For reasons of convenience, the chimeric genes may comprise promoter sequences and translation leader sequences derived from the same genes. 3' Non-coding sequences encoding transcription termination signals must also be provided. The instant chimeric genes may also comprise one or more introns in order to facilitate gene expression. 
     
    
    [0188]
     Any combination of any promoter and any terminator capable of inducing expression of a coding region may be used in the chimeric genetic sequence. Some suitable examples of promoters and terminators include those from nopaline synthase (nos), octopine synthase (ocs) and cauliflower mosaic virus ( CaMV ) genes. One type of efficient plant promoter that may be used is a high-level plant promoter. Such promoters, in operable linkage with the genetic sequences or the present invention should be capable of promoting expression of the present gene product. High-level plant promoters that may be used in this invention include the promoter of the small subunit (ss) of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase from example from soybean ( Berry-Lowe et al., J. Molecular and App. Gen., 1:483-498 1982 )), and the promoter of the chlorophyll a/b binding protein. These two promoters are known to be light-induced in plant cells (see, for example,  Genetic Engineering of Plants, an Agricultural Perspective, A. Cashmore, Plenum, NY (1983), pages 29-38 ;  Coruzzi, G. et al., J. Biol. Chem., 258:1399 (1983 ), and  Dunsmuir, P. et al., J. Mol. Appl. Gen., 2:285 (1983 )). 
     
    
    [0189]
     Plasmid vectors comprising the instant chimeric genes can then constructed. The choice of plasmid vector depends upon the method that will be used to transform host plants. The skilled artisan is well aware of the genetic elements that must be present on the plasmid vector in order to successfully transform, select and propagate host cells containing the chimeric gene. The skilled artisan will also recognize that different independent transformation events will result in different levels and patterns of expression ( Jones et al., EMBO J., 4:2411-2418 (1985 ); 
 De Almeida et al., Mol. Gen. Genetics, 218:78-86 (1989 )), and thus that multiple events must be screened in order to obtain lines displaying the desired expression level and pattern. Such screening may be accomplished by Southern analysis of DNA blots ( Southern, J. Mol. Biol., 98:503 (1975 )). Northern analysis of mRNA expression ( Kroczek, J. Chromatogr. Biomed. Appl., 618 (1-2):133-145 (1993 )), Western analysis of protein expression, or phenotypic analysis. 
     
    
    [0190]
     For some applications it will be useful to direct the instant proteins to different cellular compartments. It is thus envisioned that the chimeric genes described above may be further supplemented by altering the coding sequences to encode enzymes with appropriate intracellular targeting sequences such as transit sequences ( Keegstra, K., Cell, 56:247-253 (1989 )), signal sequences or sequences encoding endoplasmic reticulum localization ( Chrispeels, J.J., Ann. Rev. Plant Phys. Plant Mol. Biol., 42:21-53 (1991 )), or nuclear localization signals ( Raikhel, N., Plant Phys., 100:1627-1632 (1992 )) added and/or with targeting sequences that are already present removed. While the references cited give examples of each of these, the list is not exhaustive and more targeting signals of utility may be discovered in the future that are useful in the invention. 
   
 Protein Engineering 
 
   
    
    [0191]
     It is contemplated that the present nucleotides may be used to produce gene products having enhanced or altered activity. Various methods are known for mutating a native gene sequence to produce a gene product with altered or enhanced activity including but not limited to error-prone PCR ( Melnikov et al., Nucleic Acids Research, 27(4):1056-1062 (1999 ); site-directed mutagenesis ( Coombs et al., Proteins (1998), 259-311, 1 plate. Editor(s): Angeletti, Ruth Hogue. Publisher: Academic, San Diego, CA ); "gene shuffling" (   US 5,605,793   ;    US 5,811,238   ;    US 5,830,721   ;    US 5,837,458   ; and      US  10/374366   ). 
     
    
    [0192]
     The method of gene shuffling is particularly attractive due to its facile implementation, and high rate of mutagenesis and ease of screening. The process of gene shuffling involves the restriction endonuclease cleavage of a gene of interest into fragments of specific size in the presence of additional populations of DNA regions of both similarity to or difference to the gene of interest. This pool of fragments will then be denatured and reannealed to create a mutated gene. The mutated gene is then screened for altered activity. 
     
    
    [0193]
     The instant microbial sequences of the present invention may be mutated and screened for altered or enhanced activity by this method. The sequences should be double stranded and can be of various  lengths ranging form  50 bp to 10 kb. The sequences may be randomly digested into fragments ranging from about 10 bp to 1000 bp, using restriction endonucleases well known in the art (Maniatis,  supra ). In addition to the instant microbial sequences, populations of fragments that are hybridizable to all or portions of the microbial sequence may be added. Similarly, a population of fragments that are not hybridizable to the instant sequence may also be added. Typically these additional fragment populations are added in about 10 to 20 fold excess by weight as compared to the total nucleic acid. Generally if this process is followed the number of different specific nucleic acid fragments in the mixture will be about 100 to about 1000. The mixed population of random nucleic acid fragments are denatured to form single-stranded nucleic acid fragments and then reannealed. Only those single-stranded nucleic acid fragments having regions of homology with other single-stranded nucleic acid fragments will reanneal. The random nucleic acid fragments may be denatured by heating. One skilled in the art could determine the conditions necessary to completely denature the double stranded nucleic acid. Preferably the temperature is from 80° C to 100° C. The nucleic acid fragments may be reannealed by cooling. Preferably the temperature is from 20° C to 75° C. Renaturation can be accelerated by the addition of polyethylene glycol ("PEG") or salt. A suitable salt concentration may range from 0 mM to 200 mM. The annealed nucleic acid fragments are then incubated in the presence of a nucleic acid polymerase and dNTP's (i.e., dATP, dCTP, dGTP and dTTP). The nucleic acid polymerase may be the Klenow fragment, the  Taq  polymerase or any other DNA polymerase known in the art. The polymerase may be added to the random nucleic acid fragments prior to annealing, simultaneously with annealing or after annealing. The cycle of denaturation, renaturation and incubation in the presence of polymerase is repeated for a desired number of times. Preferably the cycle is repeated from 2 to 50 times, more preferably the sequence is repeated from 10 to 40 times. The resulting nucleic acid is a larger double-stranded polynucleotide ranging from about 50 bp to about 100 kb and may be screened for expression and altered activity by standard cloning and expression protocol. (Maniatis,  supra ). 
     
    
    [0194]
     Furthermore, a hybrid protein can be assembled by fusion of functional domains using the gene shuffling (exon shuffling) method ( Nixon et al., PNAS, 94:1069-1073 (1997 )). The functional domain of the instant gene can be combined with the functional domain of other genes to create novel enzymes with desired catalytic function. A hybrid enzyme may be constructed using PCR overlap extension method and cloned into the various expression vectors using the techniques well known to those skilled in art. 
   
 Description of the Preferred Embodiments 
 
   
    
    [0195]
     Pigmented microbes were isolated from environmental samples and cultured using standard microbiological techniques (Example 1). Two pigmented colonies (DC18 and DC263) were selected and 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed. The 16S rRNA gene sequence from strain DC18 (SEQ ID NO. 4) was used as a query search using BLASTN against GenBank®. The closest match to the public database was 98% identical to  Sphingomonas melonis.  The strain was designated as  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18. The 16S rRNA gene sequence from strain DC263 (SEQ ID NO. 5) exhibited homology (99% identical) to  Brevundimonas vesicularis.  The isolated strain was designated as  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263. A third pigmented microbial strain ( Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C) was obtained from Dr. Gerhard Sandmann (J.W. Goethe University, Germany). This strain is also known as  Cytophaga sp.  KK1020C and is available from the Marine Biotechnology Institute (MBI, Japan). 
     
    
    [0196]
     Carotenoid samples from each strain were analyzed by HPLC/LC-MS. The major carotenoid in  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 was determined to be tetrahydroxy-β, β'-caroten-4-one. The major carotenoid in  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 was determined to be tetrahydroxy-β,β'-caroten-4,4'-dione. The major carotenoid in  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C was flexixanthin. The major carotenoids in all three strains were ketocarotenoids, indicating that they all possessed a carotenoid ketolase. 
     
    
    [0197]
     Genomic DNA was prepared from each strain for the creation of small insert libraries (4-6 kb fragments) in pEZseq vector (Example 2). The respective plasmids were electroporated into  E. coli  cells harboring a β-carotene producing plasmid. Orange pigmented transformants were isolated and the respective carotenoid content of each was analyzed. Ketocarotenoids were produced by each orange transformant. 
     
    
    [0198]
     The inserts on the pEZ-based plasmid were sequenced by random transposon insertion and/or by primer walking. Sequences of the inserts were assembled and BLAST analyzed (BLASTNnr and BLASTXnr) against GenBank®. The genes encoding the CrtW ketolases were identified (Example 3, Table 3). Pairwise comparison analysis was conducted using the present  crtW  sequences and several previously reported  crtWs  (Table 4). The present  crtW  sequences show only moderate homology to previously reported carotenoid ketolases. 
     
    
    [0199]
     The present carotenoid ketolase genes were cloned individually into a pTrcHis2-TOPO expression vector (Example 5). Each  crtW  expression vector was transformed into a β-carotene accumulating  E. coli  strain. The carotene content of the respective orange transformants was analyzed by HPLC. Canthaxanthin was exclusively produced in each of the respective transformants. 
     
    
    [0200]
     Several β-carotene expression plasmids (pDCQ340, pDCQ330) were created to measure the effects of expressing the present  crtW  ketolase genes (Examples 4 and 7). The expression plasmids were created by cloning the carotenoid gene clusters from either  Enterobactericeae  DC260 (     US  10/808979   ) or  Pantoea agglomerans  DC 404 (     US  10/808807   ). The present CrtW ketolases exhibited the ability to convert β-carotene into canthaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0201]
     In another embodiment, coexpression of divergent ketolase was conducted (Example 6). The plasmid expressing the β-carotene synthesis genes (pDCQ330) used in Example 5 was engineered to additionally express the  crtWZ  genes from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum.  The resulting plasmid (pDCQ335) was used to create an astaxanthin/adonixanthin producing  E. coli  strain. The plasmids expressing either the  crtW  from DC263 (pDCQ342TA) or the  crtW  from K1-202C (pDCQ339TA) were transformed into the astaxanthin/adonixanthin producing strain. Comparisons between the strain harboring pDCQ335 alone and the strains containing the additional plasmid pDCQ342TA or pDCQ339TA were conducted. Strains expressing one or more divergent ketolase genes improved the efficiency of keto group addition, increasing the production of astaxanthin. 
   
 EXAMPLES 
 
   
    
    [0202]
     The present invention is further defined in the following Examples. 
   
 GENERAL METHODS 
 
   
    
    [0203]
     Standard recombinant DNA and molecular cloning techniques used in the Examples are well known in the art and are described by  Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual; Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press: Cold Spring Harbor, (1989) (Mani atis) and by  T. J. Silhavy, M. L. Bennan, and L. W. Enquist, Experiments with Gene Fusions, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1984 ) and by  Ausubel, F. M. et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, pub. by Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley-Interscience (1987 ). 
     
    
    [0204]
     Materials and methods suitable for the maintenance and growth of bacterial cultures are well known in the art. Techniques suitable for use in the following examples may be found as set out in  Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology (Phillipp Gerhardt, R. G. E. Murray, Ralph N. Costilow, Eugene W. Nester, Willis A. Wood, Noel R. Krieg and G. Briggs Phillips, eds), American Society for Microbiology, Washington, DC. (1994 )) or by  Thomas D. Brock in Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology, Second Edition, Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, MA (1989 ). All reagents, restriction enzymes and materials used for the growth and maintenance of bacterial cells were obtained from Aldrich Chemicals (Milwaukee, WI), DIFCO Laboratories/BD Diagnostics (Sparks, MD), Promega (Madison, WI), New England Biolabs (Beverly, MA), GIBCO/BRL Life Technologies (Carlsbad, CA), or Sigma Chemical Company (St. Louis, MO) unless otherwise specified. 
     
    
    [0205]
     Manipulations of genetic sequences were accomplished using the suite of programs available from the Genetics Computer Group Inc. (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, WI). Where the GCG program "Pileup" was used the gap creation default value of 12, and the gap extension default value of 4 were used. Where the CGC "Gap" or "Bestfit" programs were used the default gap creation penalty of 50 and the default gap extension penalty of 3 were used. Multiple alignments were created using the FASTA program incorporating the Smith-Waterman algorithm ( W. R. Pearson, Comput. Methods Genome Res., [Proc. Int. Symp.] (1994), Meeting Date 1992, 111-20. Editor(s): Suhai, Sandor. Publisher: Plenum, New York, NY ). In any case where program parameters were not prompted for, in these or any other programs, default values were used. 
     
    
    [0206]
     The meaning of abbreviations is as follows: "h" means hour(s), "min" means minute(s), "sec" means second(s), "d" means day(s), "mL" means milliliters, "µL" mean microliters, "L" means liters, "g" means grams, "mg" means milligrams, "µg" means micrograms, and "ppm" means parts per million. 
   
 EXAMPLE 1 
 
 
 Bacterial Strains Producing Ketocarotenoids 
 
   
    
    [0207]
     This example describes isolation of three bacterial strains that produce ketocarotenoids and preliminary analysis of their carotenoids. 
   
 Strain isolation and typing 
 
   
    
    [0208]
     To isolate novel carotenoid producing bacterial strains, pigmented microbes were isolated from a collection of environmental samples. Approximately 1 g of surface soil from a yard in Wilmington, Delaware was resuspended in 10 mL of tap water. A 10-µL loopful of the water was streaked onto Luria-Broth (LB) plates and the plates were incubated at 30°C. Pigmented bacteria with diverse colony appearances were picked and streaked twice to homogeneity on LB plates and incubated at 30°C. From these colonies, one which formed orange-pink colonies was designated as strain DC263. Strain DC18 was isolated from a Pennsylvania stream. Serial dilutions (10 -2 , 10 -4  and 10 -6 ) of the aqueous sample were plated onto  large 245x245 mm  15 % agar plates with basal medium enriched with tryptone and yeast. The components of the basal medium (per liter) were: NH 4 Cl 0.8 g, KH 2 PO 4  0.5 g, MgCl 2  6H 2 0 0.2 g, CaCl 2  2H 2 0 0.1 g, NaNO 3  1.3 g, and Na 2 SO 4  0.5 g. The components of the stock solution 1 were (per liter): nitrilotriacetic acid 12.8 g, FeCl 2 .4H 2 O 0.3 g, CuCl 2 .2H 2 O 0.0254 g, MnCl 2 .4H 2 O 0.1g, CoCl 2 .6 H 2 O 0.312 g, ZnCl 2  0.1 g, H 3 BO 3  0.01 g, Na 2 MoO 4 .2H 2 O 0.01 g, and NiCl 2 .6H 2 O 0.184g. Ten milliliters of stock solution 1 was added per 1 liter of the basal medium. The medium was supplemented with tryptone at concentration 10 g/L and yeast extract 5 g/L. Media pH was adjusted to 7. The plates were incubated at room temperature and single colonies were streaked twice onto the same plates. One strain was selected which formed orange colonies and was designated as strain DC18. 
     
    
    [0209]
     16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed with DC18 and DC263. Specifically, the 16S rRNA gene of the strain was amplified by PCR using primers HK12: 5'-GAGTTTGATCCTGGCTCAG-3' (SEQ ID NO:7) and JCR14: 5'-ACGGGCGGTGTGTAC -3' (SEQ ID NO:8). The amplified 16S rRNA genes were purified using a QIAquick PCR Purification Kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Qiagen) and sequenced on an automated ABI sequencer. The sequencing reactions were initiated with primers HK12, JCR14, and JCR15: 5'-GCCAGCAGCCGCGGTA-3' (SEQ ID NO:9). The assembled 1291 bp 16S rRNA gene sequence (SEQ ID NO:10) of DC18 and 1268 bp 16S rRNA gene sequence (SEQ ID NO:11) of DC263 were used as the query sequence for a BLASTN search ( Altschul et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 25:3389-3402(1997 )) against GenBank®. The 16S rDNA sequence of DC18 showed homology to those of  Sphingomonas  strains, with the top hit as 98% identical to  Sphingomonas melonis.  This strain was thus designated as  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18. The 16S rDNA sequence of DC263 showed homology to those of  Brevundimonas  strains, with the top hit as 99% identical to  Brevundimonas vesicularis.  This strain was thus designated as  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263. 
     
    
    [0210]
       Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C was a marine isolate that we obtained from Dr. Gerhard Sandmann at J. W. Goethe University in Germany.  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C is also known as  Cytophaga sp.  KK10202C (MBIC0139), available from the Marine Biotechnology Institute (MBI) (Iwate, Japan). 
   
 Carotenoid analysis 
 
   
    
    [0211]
       Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 was grown in 100 mL of the same medium as described for the strain isolation.  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 was grown in 100 mL LB.  Flavobacterium sp.  K1-202C was grown in 100-mL marine broth (Difco, Detroit, MI). All three strains were grown at 30°C shaking overnight. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation at 4000 g for 15 min, and the cell pellets were extracted with 10 mL acetone. The extraction was dried under nitrogen and redissolved in 1-2 mL of acetone. The extraction was filtered with an Acrodisc® CR25 mm syringe filter (Pall Corporation, Ann Arbor, MI). It was then concentrated in 0.1  mL  10% acetone+90% acetonitrile for HPLC analysis using an Agilent Series 1100 LC/MSD Si (Agilent, Foster City, CA). 
     
    
    [0212]
     Samples (20 µL) were loaded onto a 150 mm X 4.6 mm ZORBAX C18 (3.5 µm particles) column (Agilent Technologies, Inc.). The column temperature was kept at 40°C. The flow rate was 1 mL/min, while the solvent running program used was
       0-2 min: 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B;   2-10 min: linear gradient from 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B to 60% Buffer A and 40% Buffer B;   10-12 min: linear gradient from 60% Buffer A and 40% Buffer B to 50% Buffer A and 50% Buffer B;   12- 18 min: 50% Buffer A and 50% Buffer B; and,   18 - 20 min: 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B.   
   
    
    [0213]
     Buffer A was 95% acetonitrile and 5% dH 2 O; Buffer B was 100% tetrahydrofuran. 
     
    
    [0214]
       Figures 2a ,  2b , and  2c  show the HPLC profiles of the carotenoids produced in DC18, DC263 and K1-202C. The absorption spectra of the major carotenoid were also shown for each strain. The molecular weight of the major carotenoid was determined by LC-MS. Each sample of 50 µL was run on a Zorbax 2.1 x 150 mm SB-C18 LC column (Agilent Technologies, CA) with solvent program of:
       0-30 min: linear gradient from 70% acetonitrile and 30% water to 100% acetonitrile;   30-45 min: 100% acetonitrile.   
   
    
    [0215]
     The mass spectrometer (Micromass Quattro LC triple quadrapole, Micromass Limited, UK) was scanned from 100 to 1000 AMU's in 0.9 sec with an 0.1 sec interscan delay in APCI (Atmospheric Pressure Chemical Ionization) mode with the corona discharge needle at 3KV and the APCI probe at 450 °C. LC-MS analyses determined the molecular weight of the major carotenoid in DC18 to be 614, the molecular weight of the major carotenoid in DC263 to be 628, and the molecular weight of the major carotenoid in K1-202C to be 582. Based on the HPLC elution time, the absorption spectra, and the molecular weight, the major carotenoid in DC18 was predicted to be tetrahydroxy-β, β'-caroten-4-one. The major carotenoid in DC263 was predicted to be tetrahydroxy-β, β'-caroten-4, 4'-dione. The properties we determined for the major carotenoid in DC18 and DC263 were consistent with those reported in the literature for these carotenoids ( Yokoyama et al., Biosci. Biotech. Biochem., 60:200-203, (1996 );  Kleinig et al, Helvetica Chimica Acta, 60:254-258 (1977 )). The major carotenoid in K1-202C was determined to be flexixanthin by Sandmann's group. The properties determined for the major carotenoid in K1-202C was consistent with those reported for flexixanthin ( Aasen et al., Acta Chemica Scandinavica, 20:1970-1988 (1966 );  Andrewes et al., Acta Chemica Scandinavica, B38:337-339 (1984 )). These three strains are potential sources for carotenoid ketolase genes, since the major carotenoids in all three strains are ketocarotenoids. 
   
 EXAMPLE 2 
 
 
 Construction and Screening of Small Insert Libraries 
 
   
    
    [0216]
     This example describes construction of the small insert library from the bacterial strains and identification of positive clones that potentially contain the ketolase gene. 
   
 Library construction 
 
   
    
    [0217]
     Cells of DC18, DC263 and K1-202C were grown as described in Example 1. Genomic DNA was prepared from the cells using the Qiagen genomic DNA preparation kits. The small insert library of strain K1-202C was prepared by partial restriction digest method. Genomic DNA of K1-202C was partially digested with  Hinc II (Promega, Madison, WI) and separated on a 0.8% agarose gel. The 4-6kb fraction was excised from the gel and extracted using Qiagen MinElute Gel-Extraction kit. The extracted DNA was ligated to pEZseq vector using pEZSeq Blunt Cloning kit (Lucigen, Middletown, WI). The ligation mixture was electroporated into freshly prepared competent cells of    E     .  coli        10G containing a β-carotene producing plasmid pBHR-crt1 (   US 09/941947   ). Transformants were plated on LB plates with 100 µg/mL ampicillin and 50 µg/mL kanamycin. 
     
    
    [0218]
     The small insert library of strain DC18 and DC263 was prepared by random shearing method. Genomic DNA of DC18 and DC263 was sheared by passing through a 291/2 G insulin syringe (Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, NJ) about 300 times and separated on a 0.8% agarose gel. The 4-6 kb fraction was excised from the gel and extracted using Qiagen MinElute Gel-Extraction kit (Qiagen). The ends of the extracted DNA were repaired using Lucigen DNA Terminator Repair kit. The repaired DNA inserts were ligated to pEZseq vector using pEZSeq Blunt Cloning kit (Lucigen). The ligation mixture was electroporated into freshly prepared competent cells of    E     .  coli        10G containing a β-carotene producing plasmid pDCQ329 (     US  10/808979   ). Transformants were plated on LB plates with 100 (µg/mL ampicillin and 50 µg/mL kanamycin. 
   
 Identification and analysis of positive clones 
 
   
    
    [0219]
     Approximately 20,000 to 100,000 transformants were obtained for each library. Several orange colonies were identified among the tens of thousands of yellow colonies for each library. These positive clones were identified as possibly containing a ketolase gene that converted β-carotene to ketocarotenoids. Each of the positive strains was grown in 100 mL LB with antibiotics at 30°C shaking for 3 days. Carotenoids from the cells were extracted and analyzed by HPLC as described in Example 1. Ketocarotenoids (canthaxanthin and echinenone) were produced in the positive  E. coli  clones isolated from the library of DC18, DC263, and K1-202C. 
   
 EXAMPLE 3 
 
 
 Isolation of Novel Carotenoid Ketolase Genes 
 
   
    
    [0220]
     This example describes sequencing of the insert on the positive  E. coli  clones and identification of novel carotenoid ketolase genes encoded on the inserts. 
     
    
    [0221]
     Carotenoid analysis indicated that the positive clones probably contained ketolase genes that are responsible for conversion of β-carotene to canthaxanthin and echinenone. The pEZ-based plasmid was separated from the β-carotene reporter plasmid by selecting for ampicillin resistant and kanamycin sensitive clones. The insert on the pEZ-based plasmid was sequenced by random transposon insertion using the EZ-TN<TET-1> kit (Epicentre, Madison, WI) and/or primer walking. The sequences were assembled with the Sequencher program (Gene Codes Corp., Ann Arbor, MI). 
     
    
    [0222]
     Genes encoding CrtW ketolases were identified by conducting BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool;  Altschul, S. F., et al., J. Mol. Biol., 215:403-410 (1993 )) searches for similarity to sequences contained in the BLAST "nr" database (comprising all non-redundant GenBank® CDS translations, sequences derived from the 3-dimensional structure Brookhaven Protein Data Bank, the SWISS-PROT protein sequence database, EMBL, and DDBJ databases). The sequences were analyzed for similarity to all publicly available DNA sequences contained in the "nr" database using the BLASTN algorithm provided by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). The DNA sequence was translated in all reading frames and compared for similarity to all publicly available protein sequences contained in the "nr" database using the BLASTX algorithm ( Gish, W. and States, D. J., Nature Genetics, 3:266-272 (1993 )) provided by the NCBI. 
     
    
    [0223]
     All comparisons were done using either the BLASTNnr or BLASTXnr algorithm. The results of the BLAST comparisons are given in Table 3, which summarizes the sequences to which each gene has the most similarity. Table 3 displays data based on the BLASTXnr algorithm with values reported in expect values. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences were also compared with several known ketolase genes using a multiple sequence alignment algorithm in Vector NTI. Table 4 displays the percentage of nucleotide sequence identity and amino acid sequence identity for the pairwise comparisons. The three  crtW  genes isolated share only moderate homology with the known  crtW  genes. Furthermore, they are very divergent from each other as shown from the pairwise comparison in Table 4.
   TABLE 3       Top BLAST hits for the carotenoid ketolase genes isolated from different bacterial species       ORF Name   Gene Name   Similarity Identified   SEQ ID base   SEQ ID Peptide   % Identity  a     % Similarity  b     E-value  c     Citation         1     crtW_Sp hingomo nas melonis  DC18   beta-carotene C4 oxygenase   1   2   57   70   e-68   WO 02/079395       gi|33439708|gb|AAN86030.1crtW 
[ Brevundimonas aurantiaca ]           2     crtW_ Brevund imonas vesicula ris  DC263   beta- carotene C4 oxygenase     3   4   63   68   9e-88   WO02/079395       gi|33439708|gb|AAN86030.1crtW 
[ Brevundimonas aurantiaca ]       3     ctfW_FI avobact erium sp. K1-202C     beta- carotene C4 oxygenase     5   6   47   62   8e-49      Kaneko et al., DNA Res., 8 (5):205-213  (2001)       gi|17230681|ref|NP_487229.1| crtW 
[ Nostoc sp.  PCC7120]             a  %Identity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical between the two proteins. 
 b  % Similarity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical or conserved between the two proteins. 
 c  Expect value. The Expect value estimates the statistical significance of the match, specifying the number of matches, with a given score, that are expected in a search of a database of this size absolutely by chance.         
   Table 4. Pairwise comparison of the nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the three newly isolated crtW sequences with several known crtW sequences       DNA/AA Identity  a     Sphingomon as melonis   Brevundimonas vesicularis   Flavobacterium sp.   Agrobacterium aurantiacum  b     Bradyrhizobium sp.  c     Brevundimonas aurantiaca  d     Nostoc sp.  e           Sphingomonas melonis   100/100   52/42   35/29   57/48   56/48   61/53   38/33       Brevundimonas vesicularis       100/100   40/32   55/45   57/48   72/70   43/34       Flavobacterium sp.           100/100   39/31   42/32   39/32   56/41       Agrobacterium aurantiacum               100/100   60/48   59/50   40/36       Bradyrhizobium sp.                   100/100   62/53   44/36         Brevundimonas aurantiaca                         100/100   43/35       Nostoc sp.                           100/100             a  Percentage of nucleotide sequence identity and amino acid sequence identity. 
   b  Agrobacterium aurantiacum,  SwissProt Accession Number P54972 
   c  Bradyrhizobium sp.,  GenBank® Accession Number AF218415 
 d   Brevundimonas aurantiaca,  GenBank® Accession Number AY166610 
 e   Nostoc sp . PCC7120 , Pir Accession Number AF2204           
   
 EXAMPLE 4 
 
 
 Construction of β-Carotene Synthesis Plasmid pDCQ330 
 
   
    
    [0224]
       P. agglomerans  DC404 was an environmental isolate that contained the carotenoid synthesis gene cluster  crtEidiYIBZ  (SEQ ID NO:12) (see      US  10/808807   ). 
     
    
    [0225]
     The soil from a residential vegetable garden in Wilmington, Delaware was collected and resuspended in LB medium. A 10-µL loopful of resuspension was streaked onto LB plates and the plates were incubated at 30°C. Pigmented bacteria with diverse colony appearances were picked and streaked twice to homogeneity on LB plates and incubated at 30°C. From these colonies, one which formed pale yellow smooth translucent colonies was designated as "strain DC404". 
     
    
    [0226]
       P. agglomerans  strain DC404 was grown in 25 mL of LB medium at 30°C overnight with aeration. Bacterial cells were centrifuged at 4,000 x g for 10 min. The cell pellet was gently resuspended in 5 mL of 50 mM Tris-10 mM EDTA (pH 8.0) and lysozyme was added to a final concentration of 2 mg/mL. The suspension was incubated at 37°C for 1 hr. Sodium dodecyl sulfate was then added to a final concentration of 1% and proteinase K was added at 100 µg/mL. The suspension was incubated at 55°C for 2 h. The suspension became clear and the clear lysate was extracted twice with an equal volume of phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol (25:24:1) and once with chloroform:isoamyl alcohol (24:1). After centrifuging at 4,000 rpm for 20 min, the aqueous phase was carefully removed and transferred to a new tube. Two volumes of ethanol were added and the DNA was gently spooled with a sealed glass Pasteur pipette. The DNA was dipped into a tube containing 70% ethanol. After air drying, the DNA was resuspended in 400 µL of TE (10 mM Tris-1 mM EDTA, pH 8.0) with RNaseA (100 µg/mL) and stored at 4°C. The concentration and purity of DNA was determined spectrophotometrically by OD 260 /OD 280 . 
     
    
    [0227]
     A cosmid library of DC404 was constructed using the pWEB cosmid cloning kit from Epicentre (Madison, WI) following the manufacturer's instructions. Genomic DNA was sheared by passing it through a syringe needle. The sheared DNA was end-repaired and size-selected on low-melting-point agarose by comparison with a 40 kB standard. DNA fragments approximately 40 kB in size were purified and ligated into the blunt-ended cloning-ready pWEB cosmid vector. The library was packaged using ultra-high efficiency MaxPlax Lambda Packaging Extracts, and plated on EPI100  E.coli  cells. Two yellow colonies were identified from the cosmid library clones. The cosmid DNA from the two clones had similar restriction digestion patterns. This cosmid DNA, referred to herein as pWEB-404, contained the  crtWEidiYIBZ  gene cluster, given as SEQ ID NO:12. 
Primers pWEB404F: 5'-GAATTCACTAGTCGAGACGCCGGGTACCAACCAT-3' (SEQ ID NO:13) and pWEB404R: 5'-GAATTCTAGCGCGGGCGCTGCCAGA-3' (SEQ ID NO:14) were used to amplify a fragment from DC404 containing the  crtEidiYIB  genes (SEQ ID NO:15) by PCR. Cosmid DNA pWEB-404 was used as the template with  PfuTurbo ™ polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA), and the following thermocycler conditions: 92°C (5 min); 94°C (1 min), 60°C (1 min), 72°C (9 min) for 25 cycles; and 72°C (10 min). A single product of approximately 5.6 kB was observed following gel electrophoresis.  Taq  polymerase (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN) was used in a ten minute 72°C reaction to add additional 3' adenosine nucleotides to the fragment for TOPO ®  cloning into pTrcHis2-TOPO (Invitrogen). Following transformation to  E. coli  TOP10 cells, several colonies appeared bright yellow in color, indicating that they were producing a carotenoid compound. The gene cluster was then subcloned into the broad host range vector pBHR1 (MoBiTec, LLC, Marco Island, FL), and electroporated into    E     .  coli        10G cells (Lucigen, Middletown, WI). The transformants containing the resulting plasmid pDCQ330 were selected on LB medium containing 50 µg/mL kanamycin. In pDCQ330, a unique Spel site was engineered upstream of  crtE.   
   
 EXAMPLE 5 
 
 
 Expression of a Novel CrtW Carotenoid Ketolase Gene in  E .  coli   
 
   
    
    [0228]
     This example describes expression of the novel carotenoid ketolase genes in an  E. coli  strain producing β-carotene. Function of the ketolase genes is demonstrated by conversion of β-carotene to canthaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0229]
     The β-carotene producing strain used in this study was the  E. coli  strain containing plasmid pDCQ330, which carried the β-carotene synthesis gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (     US  10/808807   ). The putative ketolase genes from the three bacterial strains were amplified by PCR. The  crtW  from DC18 was amplified using primers  crtW -18_F:5'-ACTAGTAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGACCGTCGATCACGACGCAC-3' (SEQ ID NO:16) and crtW-18_R: 5'-TCTAGACTACCGGTCTTTGCTTAACGAC-3' (SEQ ID NO:17). The  crtW  from DC263 was amplified using primers crtW-263_F: 5'-ACTAGTAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGCGGCAAGCGAACAGGATG-3' (SEQ ID NO:18) and crtW-263_R: 5'-TCTAGACTAGCTGAACAAACTCCACCAG-3' (SEQ ID NO:19). The  crtW  from K1-202C was amplified using primers crtW/K1-202CF: 5'-ACTAGTAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGGCTGATGGAGGAAGTGAAGG-3' (SEQ ID NO:20) and crtW/K1-202CR: 5'-TCTAGATTAGTTTGATTGAGATTCTT-3' (SEQ ID NO:21). The PCR products were cloned into pTrcHis2-TOPO (Invitrogen) vector and screened for clones containing the insert in the forward orientation. These resulted in pDCQ341TA expressing the  crtW gene  from DC18, pDCQ342TA expressing the  crtW  gene from DC263, and pDCQ339TA expressing the  crtW gene  from K1-202C. These constructs were transformed into the β-carotene accumulating  E .  coli  strain containing pDCQ330. Orange transformants were obtained and their carotenoids were analyzed by HPLC as described in Example 1. The HPLC results are shown in  Figure 3 . Canthaxanthin eluted at 7.29 min was the carotenoid exclusively produced in each of the strain. The canthaxanthin standard was purchased from CaroteNature (Lupsingen, Switzerland). This clearly demonstrated the ketolase function of the three new  crtW  genes. 
   
 EXAMPLE 6 
 
 
 Co-expression of Divergent Ketolase Genes in  E.coli   
 
   
    
    [0230]
     This example describes co-expression of divergent ketolase genes in an  E. coli  strain producing astaxanthin and intermediates. Expression of the additional ketolase genes increased astaxanthin production. 
     
    
    [0231]
     The  crtW  and the  crtZ  genes from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  were used to produce astaxanthin in a heterologous host such as  E. coli.  We evaluated whether co-expression of a divergent  crtW  would improve astaxanthin conversion. The three newly isolated carotenoid ketolase genes from DC18, DC263, and K1-202C share only moderate homology with several known  crtW  ketolase genes as shown in Table 4. Specifically, the  crtW  gene from DC18 has 57% DNA sequence identity and 48% amino acid sequence identity with the  crtW  gene (SEQ ID NO:23) from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum.  The  crtW  from DC263 has 55% DNA sequence identity and 45% amino acid sequence identity with the  crtW  gene from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum.  The  crtW  from K1-202C has 39% DNA sequence identity and 31 % amino acid sequence identity with the  crtW  gene from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum.  It is unlikely that the presence of multiple copies of the  crtW  genes in a single host would cause instability problem due to their moderate to low homologies to each other. 
     
    
    [0232]
     Plasmid pDCQ335 was constructed by cloning the synthetic  Agrobacterium crtZW  genes into the β-carotene synthesis gene cluster in pDCQ330. The  crtZ  (SEQ ID NO:22) and crtW (SEQ ID NO:23) genes were joined together by SOEing PCR. The  crtZ  gene was amplified using forward primer crtZW_F: 5'-ACTAGTAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGACCAAC-3' (SEQ ID NO:24) and reverse primer crtZW_soe_R: 5'-AGGGCATGGGCGCTCATGGTATATTCCTCCTTTCTAGATTAGGTGCG TTCTTGGGCTTC-3' (SEQ ID NO:25). The  crtW  gene was amplified using forward primer crtZW_soe_F: 5'-GAAGCCCAAGAACGCACCTAATCTAGAAAGGAGGAATATACCATGAG CGCCCATGCCCT-3' (SEQ ID NO:26) and reverse primer crtZW_R: 5'-GCTAGCTGTACATCACGCGGTGTCGCCTTTGG-3' (SEQ ID NO:27). The two PCR products were gel purified and joined together by PCR using primers crtZW_F and crtZW_R. The 1272 bp PCR product was cloned into pTrcHis2-Topo vector (Invitrogen) resulting in plasmid pDCQ335TA. The ∼1.2 kb  Nhe  I /  Spe  I fragment from pDCQ335TA containing the  crtZW  genes was ligated to the unique Spe I site in pDCQ330. In the resulting construct pDCQ335, the  crtZWEidiYIB  genes are organized in an operon and under the control of the chloramphenicol resistant gene promoter of the vector. 
     
    
    [0233]
     Plasmid pDCQ342TA expressing a  crtW  gene from DC263 and plasmid pDCQ339TA expressing a  crtW  gene from K1-202C were transformed into  E. coli  cells containing pDCQ335. Plasmid pDCQ335 containing a  crtW  gene from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  is compatible with plasmids pDCQ342TA or pDCQ339TA.  E. coli  strains containing pDCQ335 alone and strains containing the additional plasmid pDCQ342TA or pDCQ339TA were grown in LB at 30°C for 3 days and HPLC analysis was performed as described in Example 1. Results are shown in  Figure 4 . Astaxanthin was identified by comparing its elution time, absorption spectra and molecular weight with those of the authentic standard (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). Presence of adonixanthin was predicted based on the absorption spectra and its molecular weight (582 Dalton). In the  E. coli  strain containing pDCQ335 alone, approximately 24% of the total carotenoids produced was astaxanthin (5.0 min) and the majority (46%) of the carotenoids produced was adonixanthin (5.6 min). In strains that containing pDCQ335 co-expressed with pDCQ342TA or pDCQ339TA, approximately 50% of carotenoids produced was astaxanthin (4.8-4.9 min) and approximately 10% was adonixanthin (5.5 min). This result demonstrated that co-expression of more than one divergent ketolase genes improved the efficiency of the keto group addition to increase production of ketocarotenoids such as astaxanthin. 
   
 EXAMPLE 7 
 
 
 Construction of β-Carotene Synthesis Plasmid pDCQ340 
 
   
    
    [0234]
     The purpose of this Example was to prepare a β-carotene expression plasmid, referred to herein as pDCQ340.  Enterobactericeae  DC260 (     US  10/808979   ) contains the natural gene cluster  crtEXYIBZ.  The genes required for β-carotene synthesis (i.e.,  crtEYIB ) were joined together by PCR. The  crtE  gene was amplified using primers crt-260_F: 5-GAATTCACTAGTACCAACCATGGATAGCCATTATG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 28) and crt-260SOE_R: 5'-ATCAGGTCGCCTCCGCCAGCACGACTTTCAGTTGAATATCGCTAGCT GTTG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 29). The  crtY  gene was amplified using primers crt-260SOE_F:5'-CAACAGCTAGCGATATTCAACTGAAAGTCGTGCTGGCGGAGGCGAC CTGAT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 30) and crt-260R1_R: 5'-CATTTTTTCTTCCCTGGTTCGACAGAGTTCAACAGCGCGCGCAGCGC TT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 31). The  crtIB  genes were amplified using primers crt-260R1_F: 5'-AAGCGCTGCGCGCGCTGTTGAACTCTGTCGAACCAGGGAAGAAAAA ATG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 32) and crt-260_R: 5'-GAATTCAACGAGGACGCTGCCACAGA-3' (SEQ ID NO: 33). An EcoRI site at the 3' end of the  crtY  gene was removed by a silent change introduced at the primers spanning the 3' end of the  crtY  gene. The  crtEY  genes were first joined together by SOEing PCR using primers crt-260_F (SEQ ID NO: 28) and crt-260R1_R (SEQ ID NO: 31). The  crtEY  genes were then joined together by PCR with  crtIB  genes using crt-260_F (SEQ ID NO: 28) primer and crt-260_R (SEQ ID NO: 32) primer. The final 4.5 kB  crtEYIB  fragment was cloned into pTrcHis2-TOPO vector and then subcloned into pBHR1 resulting pDCQ340.  E. coli  cells containing pDCQ340 were shown to produce β-carotene. 
   
 EXAMPLE 8 
 
 
 Expression of the Novel Carotenoid Ketolase Genes in  Methylomonas   
 
   
    
    [0235]
     This example describes how one of skill in the art can express the novel carotenoid ketolase genes for production of ketocarotenoids, such as canthaxanthin, in  Methylomonas sp.  16a (ATCC PTA-2402) based on previously reported methods (   US 09/941947   ) and (   US 60/527083   ). 
     
    
    [0236]
     The  crtW  genes from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 and  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 were individually cloned into the β-carotene synthesis plasmid pDCQ340 (Example 7), creating plasmids pDCQ341 and pDCQ342, respectively. 
     
    
    [0237]
     The plasmids pDCQ341 and pDCQ342 were transferred into  Methylomonas  16a by tri-parental conjugal mating (   US 60/527083   ). An  E. coli  helper strain containing pRK2013 (ATCC No. 37159) and an    E     .  coli        10G donor strain containing the plasmid pDCQ341 or pDCQ342 were grown overnight in LB medium containing kanamycin (50 µg/mL), washed three times in LB, and resuspended in a volume of LB representing approximately a 60-fold concentration of the original culture volume. 
     
    
    [0238]
     The  Methylomonas sp.  16a MWM1200 strain contains a double crossover knockout of the promoter for the native  crtN1aldcrtN2  gene cluster and a knockout of the native  crtN3  gene, disrupting the synthesis of the native C 30  carotenoids (   US 60/527083   ). This MWM1200 strain can be grown as the recipient using the general conditions described in    US 09/941947   . Briefly,  Methylomonas  16a MWM1200 strain was grown in serum stoppered Wheaton bottles (Wheaton Scientific, Wheaton IL) using a gas/liquid ratio of at least 8:1 (i.e., 20 mL of Nitrate liquid "BTZ-3" media in 160 mL total volume) at 30°C with constant shaking. 
   
 Nitrate medium for  Methylomonas  16A 
 
   
    
    [0239]
     Nitrate liquid medium, also referred to herein as "defined medium" or "BTZ-3" medium was comprised of various salts mixed with Solution 1 as indicated below (Tables 5 and 6) or where specified the nitrate was replaced with 15 mM ammonium chloride. Solution 1 provides the composition for 100-fold concentrated stock solution of trace minerals.
     Table 5           Solution 1*             MW   Conc. (mM)   g per L                             Nitriloacetic acid   191.1   66.9   12.8       CuCl 2  x 2H 2 O   170.48   0.15   0.0254       FeCl 2  x 4H 2 O   198.81   1.5   0.3       MnCl 2  x 4H 2 O   197.91   0.5   0.1       CoCl 2  x 6H 2 O   237.9   1.31   0.312       ZnCl 2     136.29   0.73   0.1       H 3 BO 3     61.83   0.16   0.01       Na 2 MoO 4  x   241.95   0.04   0.01       2H 2 O                   NiCl 2  x 6H 2 O   237.7   0.77   0.184           *Mix the gram amounts designated above in 900 mL of H 2 O, adjust to pH=7, and add H 2 O to an end volume of 1 L. Keep refrigerated.         
     Table 6           Nitrate liquid medium (BTZ-3)**             MW   Conc. (mM)   g per L         NaNO 3     84.99   10   0.85       KH 2 PO 4     136.09   3.67   0.5       Na 2 SO 4     142.04   3.52   0.5       MgCl 2  x 6H 2 O   203.3   0.98   0.2       CaCl 2  x 2H 2 O   147.02   0.68   0.1                           1 M HEPES (pH 7)   238.3       50 mL       Solution 1           10 mL           **Dissolve in 900 mL H 2 O. Adjust to pH=7, and add H 2 O to give 1 L. 
For agar plates: Add 15 g of agarose in 1 L of medium, autoclave, let cool down to 50°C, mix, and pour plates.           
     
    
    [0240]
     The standard gas phase for cultivation contains 25% methane in air. The  Methylomonas sp.  16a MWM1200 recipient strain was cultured under these conditions for 48 h in BTZ-3 medium, washed three times in BTZ-3, and resuspended in a volume of BTZ-3 representing a 150-fold concentration of the original culture volume. 
     
    
    [0241]
     The donor, helper, and recipient cell pastes were combined in ratios of 1:1:2, respectively, on the surface of BTZ-3 agar plates containing 0.5% (w/v) yeast extract. Plates were maintained at 30°C in 25% methane for 16-72 hours to allow conjugation to occur, after which the cell pastes were collected and resuspended in BTZ-3. Dilutions were plated on BTZ-3 agar containing kanamycin (50 µg/mL) and incubated at 30°C in 25% methane for up to 1 week. Orange-red transconjugants were streaked onto BTZ-3 agar with kanamycin (50 µg/mL). 
     
    
    [0242]
     For analysis of carotenoid composition, transconjugants were cultured in 25 mL BTZ-3 containing kanamycin (50 µg/mL) and incubated at 30°C in 25% methane as the sole carbon source for up to 1 week. The cells were harvested by centrifugation and frozen at -20°C. After thawing, the pellets were extracted and carotenoid content was analyzed by HPLC, as described in Example 1. 
     
    
    [0243]
     HPLC analysis ( Figure 5 ) of extracts from  Methylomonas  16a MWM1200 containing pDCQ340 showed synthesis of -carotene.  Methylomonas  16a MWM1200 containing either pDCQ341 or pDCQ342 synthesized canthaxanthin, which confirmed the ketolase activity of the novel ketolases in this methanotrophic host. 
   SEQUENCE LISTING 
   
    
    [0244]
     
     
 <110> E. I. duPont de Nemours and company, Inc. 
 <120> Novel carotenoid Ketolases 
 <130> CL2460 
 <150>    US 60/531310 <151> 2003-12-19     
 <160> 33 
 <170> PatentIn version 3.3 
 <210> 1 
<211> 747 
<212> DNA 
<213> Sphingomonas melonis DC18 
 <220> 
<221> CDS 
<222> (1)..(747) 
 <400> 1
 
   
 <210> 2 
<211> 248 
<212> PRT 
<213> Sphingomonas melonis DC18 
 <400> 2
 
   
 <210> 3 
<211> 780 
<212> DNA 
<213> Brevundimonas vesicularis DC263 
 <220> 
<221> CDS 
<222> (1)..(780) 
 <400> 3
 
   
 <210> 4 
<211> 259 
<212> PRT 
<213> Brevundimonas vesicularis DC263 
 <400> 4
 
   
 <210> 5 
<211> 771 
<212> DNA 
<213> Flavobacterium sp. K1-202C 
 <400> 5
 
   
 <210> 6 
<211> 256 
<212> PRT 
<213> Flavobacterium sp. K1-202C 
 <400> 6
 
   
 <210> 7 
<211> 19 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer HK12 
 <400> 7 
gagtttgatc ctggctcag    19 
 <210> 8 
<211> 15 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer JCR14 
 <400> 8 
 acgggcggtg tgtac     15 
 <210> 9 
<211> 16 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer JCR15 
 <400> 9 
 gccagcagcc gcggta     16 
 <210> 10 
<211> 1291 
<212> DNA 
<213> Sphingomonas melonis DC18 
 <400> 10
 
   
 <210> 11 
<211> 1268 
<212> DNA 
<213> Brevundimonas vesicularis DC263 
 <400> 11
 
   
 <210> 12 
<211> 8814 
<212> DNA 
<213> Pantoea agglomerans DC404 
 <400> 12
 
 
 
 
   
 <210> 13 
<211> 34 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer pWEB404F 
 <400> 13 
gaattcacta gtcgagacgc cgggtaccaa ccat    34 
 <210> 14 
<211> 25 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer pWEB404R 
 <400> 14 
gaattctagc gcgggcgctg ccaga    25 
 <210> 15 
<211> 5632 
<212> DNA 
<213> Pantoea agglomerans DC404 
 <400> 15
 
 
   
 <210> 16 
<211> 43 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtw-18_F 
 <400> 16 
actagtaagg aggaataaac catgaccgtc gatcacgacg cac    43 
 <210> 17 
<211> 28 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtW-18_R 
 <400> 17 
tctagactac cggtctttgc ttaacgac    28 
 <210> 18 
<211> 42 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtW-263_F 
 <400> 18 
actagtaagg aggaataaac catgcggcaa gcgaacagga tg    42 
 <210> 19 
<211> 28 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtW-263_R 
 <400> 19 
tctagactag ctgaacaaac tccaccag    28 
 <210> 20 
<211> 44 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtw/K1-202CF 
 <400> 20 
actagtaagg aggaataaac catggctgat ggaggaagtg aagg    44 
 <210> 21 
<211> 26 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtW/K1-202cR 
 <400> 21 
tctagattag tttgattgag attctt    26 
 <210> 22 
<211> 489 
<212> DNA 
<213> Agrobacterium aurantiacum 
 <400> 22
   
 <210> 23 
<211> 729 
<212> DNA 
<213> Agrobacterium aurantiacum 
 <400> 23
   
 <210> 24 
<211> 30 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtZW_F 
 <400> 24 
actagtaagg aggaataaac catgaccaac    30 
 <210> 25 
<211> 59 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtZW_soe_R 
 <400> 25 
agggcatggg cgctcatggt atattcctcc tttctagatt aggtgcgttc ttgggcttc    59 
 <210> 26 
<211> 59 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtZW_soe_F 
 <400> 26 
gaagcccaag aacgcaccta atctagaaag gaggaatata ccatgagcgc ccatgccct    59 
 <210> 27 
<211> 32 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crtZW_R 
 <400> 27 
gctagctgta catcacgcgg tgtcgccttt gg    32 
 <210> 28 
<211> 35 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crt-260_F 
 <400> 28 
gaattcacta gtaccaacca tggatagcca ttatg    35 
 <210> 29 
<211> 51 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crt-260SOE_R 
 <400> 29 
atcaggtcgc ctccgccagc acgactttca gttgaatatc gctagctgtt g    51 
 <210> 30 
<211> 51 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crt-260SOE_F 
 <400> 30 
caacagctag cgatattcaa ctgaaagtcg tgctggcgga ggcgacctga t    51 
 <210> 31 
<211> 49 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crt-260R1_R 
 <400> 31 
cattttttct tccctggttc gacagagttc aacagcgcgc gcagcgctt    49 
 <210> 32 
<211> 49 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crt-260R1_F 
 <400> 32 
aagcgctgcg cgcgctgttg aactctgtcg aaccagggaa gaaaaaatg    49 
 <210> 33 
<211> 26 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> Primer crt-260_R 
 <400> 33 
gaattcaacg aggacgctgc cacaga    26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
