
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0001]
     This invention is in the field of molecular biology and microbiology. More specifically, this invention pertains to nucleic acid molecules encoding enzymes useful for microbial production of cyclic hydroxylated carotenoid compounds. 
   
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0002]
     Carotenoids are pigments that are ubiquitous throughout nature and synthesized by all photosynthetic organisms, and in some heterotrophic growing bacteria and fungi. Carotenoids provide color for flowers, vegetables, insects, fish and birds. Colors of carotenoid range from yellow to red with variations of brown and purple. As precursors of vitamin A, carotenoids are fundamental components in our diet and they play additional important role in human health. Because animals are unable to synthesize carotenoid  de novo,  they must obtain them by dietary means. Thus, manipulation of carotenoid production and composition in plants or bacteria can provide new or improved source for carotenoids. Industrial uses of carotenoids include pharmaceuticals, food supplements, animal feed additives, and colorants in cosmetics, to mention a few. 
     
    
    [0003]
     Industrially, only a few carotenoids are used for food colors, animal feeds, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics, despite the existence of more than 600 different carotenoids identified in nature. This is largely due to difficulties in production. Presently, most of the carotenoids used for industrial purposes are produced by chemical synthesis; however, these compounds are very difficult to make chemically ( Nelis and Leenheer, Appl. Bacteriol. 70:181-191 (1991 )). Natural carotenoids can either be obtained by extraction of plant material or by microbial synthesis. However, only a few plants are widely used for commercial carotenoid production and the productivity of carotenoid synthesis in these plants is relatively low. As a result, carotenoids produced from these plants are very expensive. 
     
    
    [0004]
     One way to increase the productive capacity of carotenoid biosynthesis is to apply recombinant DNA technology (reviewed in  Misawa and Shimada, J. Biotech., 59:169-181 (1998 )). It is desirable to produce carotenoids in non-carotenogenic bacteria and yeasts, thereby permitting control over quality, quantity and selection of the most suitable and efficient producer organisms. The latter is especially important for commercial production economics (and therefore availability) to consumers. 
     
    
    [0005]
     CrtZ-type carotenoid hydroxylases are a class of enzymes that introduce hydroxyl groups to the β-ionone ring of the cyclic carotenoids, such as β-carotene or canthaxanthin, to produce hydroxylated carotenoids. Examples of such carotenoids include astaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, zeaxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, adonirubin, adonixanthin, tetrahydroxy-β,β'-caroten-4,4'-dione, tetrahydroxy-β,β'-caroten-4-one, caloxanthin, erythroxanthin, nostoxanthin, flexixanthin, 3-hydroxy-γ-carotene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-γ-carotene, bacteriorubixanthin, bacteriorubixanthinal, and lutein. 
     
    
    [0006]
     Carotenoid hydroxylase genes have been reported from a variety of bacterial, fungal, algal, and plant species. Examples of several species include, but are not limited to  Pantoea stewartii  (   WO 03/016503   ;    WO 02/079395   ),  Erwinia uredovora  (   EP 393690 B1   ;  Misawa et al., J. Bacteriol., 172(12):6704-6712 (1990 )),  Erwinia herbicola  ( Hundle et al., Mol. Gen Genet., 245(4):406-416 (1994 );  Hundle et al., FEBS Lett., 315(3):329-334 (1993 );  Schnurr et al., FEMS Microbiol. Lett., 78(2-3):157-161 (1991 ); and    US 5684238   ),  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  ( Misawa et al., J Bacteriol., 177(22):6575-6584 (1995 );    US 5811273   ),  Alcaligenes sp.  (   US 5811273   ),  Flavobacterium sp.  (   US 6677134   ;    US 6291204   ;    US 2002147371   ;    WO 2004029275   ; and  Pasamontes et al., Gene, 185(1):35-41 (1997 )),  Paracoccus sp.  (   CN 1380415   ),  Haematococcus pluvialis  (   WO 00/061764   ;  Linden, H., Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, 1446(3):203-212 (1999 )), and plant species such as  Arabidopsis thaliana  ( Tian, L. and DellaPenna, D., Plant Mol. Biol., 47(3):379-388 (2001 );    US 2002102631   ). Many of these β-carotene hydroxylase genes have been recombinantly expressed in microbial host cells. However, there is a need to identify additional novel  crtZ  hydroxylase genes useful for genetically engineering commercially-suitable microorganisms for the production of hydroxylated carotenoids, such as astaxanthin and zeaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0007]
     Additionally, there is a particularly important need to identify CrtZ hydroxylases having relatively low to moderate nucleic acid sequence identity (i.e. <70% nucleotide sequence identity) for stable expression of multiple hydroxylase genes as highly homologous genes would be difficult to integrate and tend to result in genetic instability (i.e. undesirable homologous recombination).  CrtZ  genes having a divergent nucleotide sequences (relative to one another) are most suitable for expressing multiple hydroxylases in a single recombinant host cell. This is especially important when hydroxylase activity becomes the rate-limiting step in the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway. Increasing the number of  crtZ  genes that can be simultaneously expressed in the production host is expected to increase carotenoid production, assuming that the pool of available substrates is not limiting. This is particularly important when optimizing recombinant production of the desired product (i.e. carotenoids). 
     
    
    [0008]
     The problem to be solved therefore is to provide novel  crtZ  hydroxylase genes useful for engineering production of carotenoids (i.e. zeaxanthin and astaxanthin). 
   
 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 
 
   
    
    [0009]
     The present invention has solved the stated problem by providing a novel  crtZ  gene, isolated from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263, which is useful for the production of carotenoids in recombinant host cells. 
Additionally, it has been discovered that a gene from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans,  previously identified as encoding a hypothetical protein with unknown function, encodes a carotenoid hydroxylase. A method for producing hydroxylated carotenoids using the present CrtZ hydroxylases is also provided. 
     
    
    [0010]
     Accordingly the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of:
       (a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme, having an amino acid as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 17;   (b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a first nucleotide sequence encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme having at least 95 % identity to a polypeptide comprised of an amino acid sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 17; and   (c) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that is complementary to (a) or (b).   
   
    
    [0011]
     Additionally, polypeptides encoded by the present nucleic acid molecules are provided by the invention as well as genetic chimera and transformed hosts comprising the same. 
     
    
    [0012]
     In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of obtaining a nucleic acid molecule encoding the carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme of the invention comprising:
       (a) amplifying an insert present in a cloning vector using an oligonucleotide primer comprising a portion of the sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 16 and a second primer selected from a random primer, a primer with a sequence complementary to polyA and a primer complementary to a sequence of the cloning vector; or   (b) amplifying a nucleic acid molecule using an oligonucleotide primer comprising a portion of the sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 16 and an oligonucleotide comprising a sequence that is complementary to another portion of the sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 16,   
wherein the amplified insert or nucleic acid molecule encodes a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme.
       
    
    [0013]
     In another embodiment, the invention provides a method for the production of a hydroxylated carotenoid compound comprising:
       (a) providing a host cell which produces cyclic carotenoid having at least one β-ionone ring;   (b) transforming the host cell of (a) with a nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme selected from the group consisting of:
   (i) the nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 or 2; and       (c) growing the transformed host cell of (b) under suitable conditions whereby a hydroxylated carotenoid is produced.   
   
    
    [0014]
     In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of regulating cyclic hydroxylated carotenoid biosynthesis in an organism comprising;
       (a) providing a host cell which comprising a carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, said host cell producing a cyclic carotenoid having at least one β-ionone ring;   (b) transforming the host cell of (a) with a nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme selected from the group consisting of:
   (i) the nucleic acid molecule of claims 1 or 2; and       (c) growing the transformed host cell of (b) under conditions whereby the hydroxylated carotenoid biosynthesis is regulated.   
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES, SEQUENCE DESCRIPTIONS. AND THE BIOLOGICAL DEPOSIT 
 
   
    
    [0015]
     
     
   Figure 1  shows the biosynthetic pathway for the production of astaxanthin from a variety of possible precursors via ketolase and hydroxylase reactions from β-carotene. 
   Figure 2  shows the HPLC analysis of native carotenoids produced  by Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 and  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18. 
   Figure 3  shows the HPLC analysis of carotenoids produced by zeaxanthin producing  E.coli  strains expressing the  crtZ  gene from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 or  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278. 
   Figure 4  shows the HPLC analysis of carotenoids produced by astaxanthin producing  E. coli and Methylomonas sp.  16a strains expressing the  crtZ  gene from  Brevundimonas veslcularis  DC263. 
   Figure 5  shows the HPLC analysis of carotenoids produced by astaxanthin producing  E .  coli  and  Methylomonas sp.  16a strains expressing the  crtZ  gene from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No.700278. 
 
   
    
    [0016]
     The following sequences comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.821-1.825 ("Requirements for Patent Applications Containing Nucleotide Sequences and/or Amino Acid Sequence Disclosures - the Sequence Rules") and are consistent with World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Standard ST.25 (1998) and the sequence listing requirements of the EPC and PCT (Rules 5.2 and 49.5(a-bis); and Section 208 and Annex C of the Administrative instructions). The symbols and format used for nucleotide and amino add sequence data comply with the rules set forth in 37 C.F.R. §1.822. 
     
    
    [0017]
     SEQ ID NO: 1 is the nucleotide sequence of a primer ("HK12") used for 16S rRNA gene sequencing. 
     
    
    [0018]
     SEQ ID NO: 2 is the nucleotide sequence of a primer ("JCR14") used for 16S rRNA gene sequencing. 
     
    
    [0019]
     SEQ ID NO: 3 is the nucleotide sequence of a primer ("JCR15") used for 16S rRNA gene sequencing. 
     
    
    [0020]
     SEQ ID NO: 4 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 16S rRNA gene. 
     
    
    [0021]
     SEQ ID NO: 5 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 16S rRNA gene. 
     
    
    [0022]
     SEQ ID NO: 6 is the nucleotide sequence of the  crtEXYIBZ  carotenoid synthesis gene cluster from  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 (   US 20040268439   ). 
     
    
    [0023]
     SEQ ID NO: 7 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pWEB260F. 
     
    
    [0024]
     SEQ ID NO: 8 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pWEB260R. 
     
    
    [0025]
     SEQ ID NO: 9 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pWEB404F. 
     
    
    [0026]
     SEQ ID NO: 10 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pWEB404R. 
     
    
    [0027]
     SEQ ID NO: 11 is the nucleotide sequence of the  crtEidiYIB  carotenoid synthesis gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (     US  10/808807   ). 
     
    
    [0028]
     SEQ ID NO: 12 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263  crtW  ketolase (   US 20050227311   ). 
     
    
    [0029]
     SEQ ID NO: 13 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18  crtW  ketolase (   US 20050227311   ). 
     
    
    [0030]
     SEQ ID NO: 14 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pEZ263-F. 
     
    
    [0031]
     SEQ ID NO: 15 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pEZ263-R. 
     
    
    [0032]
     SEQ ID NO: 16 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263  crtZ  carotenoid hydroxylase. 
     
    
    [0033]
     SEQ ID NO: 17 is the deduced amino acid sequence of the  Brevuhdimonas vesicularis  DC263 CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylase. 
     
    
    [0034]
     SEQ ID NO: 18 is the amino acid sequence of the  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylase. 
     
    
    [0035]
     SEQ ID NO: 19 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 (GenBank® ZP_00094836.1) CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylase. 
     
    
    [0036]
     SEQ ID NO:20 is the amino acid sequence of the  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 (GenBank® ZP_00094836.1) CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylase. 
     
    
    [0037]
     SEQ ID NO: 21 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtZ-DC263_F. 
     
    
    [0038]
     SEQ ID NO: 22 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtZ-DC263_R. 
     
    
    [0039]
     SEQ ID NO: 23 is the nucleotide sequence of primer 41ZSPH_F. 
     
    
    [0040]
     SEQ ID NO: 24 is the nucleotide sequence of primer SPH_ZR. 
     
    
    [0041]
     SEQ ID NO: 25 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260_F. 
     
    
    [0042]
     SEQ ID NO: 26 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260SOE_R. , 
     
    
    [0043]
       SEQ  10 NO: 27 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260SOE_F. 
     
    
    [0044]
     SEQ ID NO: 28 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260RI_R. 
     
    
    [0045]
     SEQ ID NO: 29 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260RI_F. 
     
    
    [0046]
     SEQ ID NO: 30 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crt-260_R. 
     
    
    [0047]
     SEQ ID NO: 31 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-263_F. 
     
    
    [0048]
     SEQ ID NO: 32 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-263_R. 
     
    
    [0049]
     SEQ ID NO: 33 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-263_F2. 
     
    
    [0050]
     SEQ ID NO: 34 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW-263_R2. 
     
    
    [0051]
     SEQ ID NO: 35 is the nucleotide sequence of a first primer used to amplify the  phps1  promoter from  Methylomonas  16a. 
     
    
    [0052]
     SEQ ID NO: 36 is the nucleotide sequence of a second primer used to amplify the  phps1  promoter from  Methylomonas  16a. 
     
    
    [0053]
     SEQ ID NO: 37 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW_sphingo_F. 
     
    
    [0054]
     SEQ ID NO: 38 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtW_sphingo_R. 
     
    
    [0055]
     The following biological deposit has been made under the terms of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure:
           Depositor Identification Reference   International Depository Designation   Date of Deposit           Methylomonas  16a   ATCC PTA 2402   August 22, 2000           
     
    
    [0056]
     As used herein, "ATCC" refers to the American Type Culture Collection International Depository Authority located at ATCC, 10801 University Blvd., Manassas, VA 20110-2209, U.S.A. The "International Depository Designation" is the accession number to the culture on deposit with ATCC. 
     
    
    [0057]
     The listed deposit will be maintained in the indicated international depository for at least thirty (30) years and will be made available to the public upon the grant of a patent disclosing it. The availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by government action. 
   
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 
   
    
    [0058]
     The present  crtZ  genes and their expression product, a carotenoid hydroxylase, are useful for the creation of recombinant organisms that have the ability to produce hydroxylated carotenoid compounds. A novel nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase has been isolated from a bacterial strain denoted as  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263. Additionally, a hypothetical protein from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 (GenBank® ZP_00094836.1) has been identified as a carotenoid hydroxylase useful for producing hydroxylated carotenoids using the present methods. 
     
    
    [0059]
     The present  crtZ  hydroxylase genes were expressed in transgenic microbial hosts engineered to produce suitable substrates (for example, β-carotene or canthaxanthin). Functional expression of the genes was measured by the production of hydroxylated carotenoids (for example, zeaxanthin or astaxanthin) in the heterologous hosts. 
     
    
    [0060]
     The carotenoid hydroxylase genes of the present invention may be used in a variety of ways for the production or regulation of cyclic hydroxylated carotenoid compounds. The present  crtZ  hydroxylase genes can be used for carotenoid production in heterologous hosts having the ability to produce suitable substrates. Additionally, present  crtZ  hydroxylase genes may be simultaneously coexpressed with one or more divergent carotenoid hydroxylase genes in the heterologous host for optimized production of hydroxylated carotenoids. Simultaneous expression of the present  crtZ  genes should be possible due to their relatively low to moderate nucleotide sequence identity to other known CrtZ hydroxylases. The relatively low/moderate nucleotide sequence identity increases the likelihood of stable expression of multiple CrtZ hydroxylases in the microbial production host for optimal carotenoid production. 
     
    
    [0061]
     The genes and gene sequences described herein enable one to incorporate the production of hydroxylated carotenoids directly into an industrially suitable microbial host cell. This aspect makes any microbial strain into which these genes are incorporated a more desirable production host. The carotenoids produced can be isolated from the production host for use in a variety of applications, including animal feed. Optionally, the recombinant microbial host cells can be directly incorporated into animal feed (no carotenoid isolation step) due to the presence of carotenoids that are known to add desirable pigmentation and health benefits. Fish (e.g. salmon and trout) and shrimp aquacultures are particularly useful applications for this invention as carotenoid pigmentation is critically important for the value of these organisms ( F. Shahidi and J.A. Brown, Critical Reviews in Food Science, 38(1):1-67 (1998 )). Specifically, the carotenoid astaxanthin is currently used in the aquaculture industry. 
     
    
    [0062]
     In this disclosure, a number of terms and abbreviations are used. The following definitions are provided. 
     
    
    [0063]
     As used herein, "open reading frame" is abbreviated ORF. 
     
    
    [0064]
     "Polymerase chain reaction" is abbreviated PCR. 
     
    
    [0065]
     As used herein, an "isolated nucleic acid molecule" is a polymer of RNA or DNA that is single- or double-stranded, optionally containing synthetic, non-natural or altered nucleotide bases. An isolated nucleic acid molecule in the form of a polymer of DNA may be comprised of one or more segments of cDNA, genomic DNA or synthetic DNA. 
     
    
    [0066]
     As used herein, the term "pBHR-crt1" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid was constructed by cloning the  crtEXYIB  carotenoid gene cluster from  Pantoea stewartii  (ATCC 8199) into pBHR1 (MoBioTech, Goettingen, Germany; see    WO 02/18617    corresponding to    US 09/941947   ). The resulting plasmid contained the  P. stewartii  gene cluster expressed under the control of the chloramphenicol-resistance gene promoter. 
     
    
    [0067]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ300" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid was constructed by cloning the carotenoid gene cluster  crtEYIB  from  Pantoea stewartii  (ATCC No. 8199) into pTrcHis2-Topo vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). 
     
    
    [0068]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ301 refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid constructed by cloning a 4.5 kB  EcoR I fragment of pDCQ300 containing the  crtEYIB  gene cluster into the unique  EcoRI  site of vector pBHR1 (MoBiTec). In pDCQ301, a unique  Mfe I site was engineered in the intergenic region of  crtE  and  crtY . 
     
    
    [0069]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ329" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid was constructed by cloning the  crtEXYIB  gene cluster isolated from  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 into the broad host range vector pBHR1 (   US 20040268439   ). 
     
    
    [0070]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ330" refers to a β-carotene producing plasmid. The plasmid was constructed by cloning the  crtEidiYIB  carotenoid gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 into a broad host range vector pBHR1 (   US 20040253663    and    US 20040224383   ). 
     
    
    [0071]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ340" refers to a plasmid expressing the  crtEYIB  gene cluster from  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260. The  crtX  gene in the native gene cluster was deleted. The gene cluster was cloned into vector pBHR1. 
     
    
    [0072]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ342" refers to a plasmid expressing a  crtWEYIB  gene cluster. The  crtW  coding sequence from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  was cloned upstream of the  crtEYIB  gene cluster from  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 in pBHR1. 
     
    
    [0073]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ342TA" refers to a plasmid expressing the  crtW  gene from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). 
     
    
    [0074]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ344" refers to a plasmid expressing the  crtZWEYIB  gene cluster. The  crtZ  coding sequence from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 was cloned upstream of the  crtWEYIB  gene cluster of pDCQ342, resulting in an astaxanthin-producing plasmid. 
     
    
    [0075]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ352" refers to a plasmid expressing the crtZ gene from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). 
     
    
    [0076]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ363" refers to a plasmid comprised of the  phps1  promoter amplified from  Methylomonas sp.  16a and cloned into pBHR1. 
     
    
    [0077]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ364" refers to a plasmid comprised of the coding sequence of the  crtZ  gene from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  cloned into plasmid pDCQ363. 
     
    
    [0078]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ365" refers to a plasmid comprised of the coding sequence of the  crtW  gene from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 cloned into plasmid pDCQ364. The coding sequence of the  crtW  gene from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 and the coding sequence of the  crtZ  gene from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 were co-expressed as one transcriptional unit under control of the  phps1  promoter from  Methylomonas sp.  16a. 
     
    
    [0079]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ366" refers to a plasmid comprised of the  crtWZ  transcriptional unit from pDCQ365 cloned into the β-carotene synthesis plasmid pDCQ330, resulting in a plasmid capable of producing astaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0080]
     As used herein, the term "pDCQ370TA" refers to a plasmid expressing the  crtZ  gene from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). It incorporated different restriction sites flanking  crtZ  gene as in pDCQ352. 
     
    
    [0081]
     As used herein, the term "pTrc-His2-crtZ (Sphingo)" refers to a plasmid expressing the coding sequence of the  crtZ  gene from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 cloned into a pTrcHis2-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). 
     
    
    [0082]
     As used herein, the term "isoprenoid" or "terpenoid" refers to the compounds are any molecule derived from the isoprenoid pathway including 10 carbon terpenoids and their derivatives, such as carotenoids and xanthophylls. 
     
    
    [0083]
     As used herein, the term "carotenoid" refers to a compound composed of a polyene backbone which is condensed from five-carbon isoprene unit. Carotenoids can be acyclic or terminated with one (monocyclic) or two (bicyclic) cyclic end groups. The term "carotenoid" may include both carotenes and xanthophylls. A "carotene refers to a hydrocarbon carotenoid. Carotene derivatives that contain one or more oxygen atoms, in the form of hydroxy-, methoxy-, oxo-, epoxy-, carboxy-, or aldehydic functional groups, or within glycosides, glycoside esters, or sulfates, are collectively known as "xanthophylls". Carotenoids that are particularly suitable in the present invention are monocyclic and bicyclic carotenoids. 
     
    
    [0084]
     As used herein, the term "carotenoid biosynthetic pathway" refers to those genes comprising members of the upper isoprenoid pathway and/or lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. 
     
    
    [0085]
     As used herein, the terms "upper isoprenoid pathway", "isoprenoid pathway", and "upper pathway" are used interchangeably and refer to enzymes involved in converting pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP). Genes encoding these enzymes include, but are not limited to: the "dxs"gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate synthase); the " dxr " gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase); the " ispD " gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D-erythritol cytidyltransferase enzyme; also known as  ygbP ); the  "ispE"  gene (encoding 4- diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methylerythritol kinase; also known as  ychB ); the " ispF " gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase; also known as  ygbB ); the " pyrG " gene (encoding a CTP synthase); the " lytB " gene involved in the formation of dimethylallyl diphosphate; the " gcpE " gene involved in the synthesis of 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate; the " idi " gene (responsible for the intramolecular conversion of IPP to dimethylallyl pyrophosphate); and the " ispA " gene (encoding geranyltransferase or farnesyl diphosphate synthase) in the isoprenoid pathway. 
     
    
    [0086]
     As used herein, the terms "lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway" and "lower pathway" will be used interchangeably and refer to those enzymes which convert FPP to a suite of carotenoids. These include those genes and gene products that are involved in the synthesis of either diapophytoene (whose synthesis represents the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 30  carotenoids) or phytoene (whose synthesis represents the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 40  carotenoids). All subsequent reactions leading to the production of various C 30 -C 40  carotenoids are included within the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. These genes and gene products comprise all of the " crf " genes including, but not limited to:  crtM, crtN, crtN2, crtE, crtX, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtW, crtO, crtA, crtC, crtD, crtF,  and crtU. Finally, the term "lower carotenoid biosynthetic enzyme" is an inclusive term referring to any and all of the enzymes in the lower pathway including, but not limited to: CrtM, CrtN, CrtN2, CrtE, CrtX, CrtY, CrtI, CrtB, CrtZ, CrtW, CrtO, CrtA, CrtC, CrtD, CrtF, and CrtU. 
     
    
    [0087]
     "C 30  diapocarotenoids" consist of six isoprenoid units joined in such a manner that the arrangement of isoprenoid units is reversed at the center of the molecule so that the two central methyl groups are in a 1,6-positional relationship and the remaining nonterminal methyl groups are in a 1,5-positional relationship. All C 30  carotenoids may be formally derived from the acyclic C 30 H 42  structure, having a long central chain of conjugated double bonds, by: (i) hydrogenation (ii) dehydrogenation, (III) cyclization, (iv) oxidation, (v) esterification/ glycosylation, or any combination of these processes. 
     
    
    [0088]
     "Tetraterpenes" or "C 40  carotenoids" consist of eight isoprenoid units joined in such a manner that the arrangement of isoprenoid units is reversed at the center of the molecule so that the two central methyl groups are in a 1,6-positional relationship and the remaining nonterminal methyl groups are in a 1,5-positional relationship. All C 40  carotenoids may be formally derived from the acyclic C 40 H 56  structure. Non-limiting examples of C 40  carotenoids include: phytoene, lycopene, β-carotene, zeaxanthin, astaxanthin, and canthaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0089]
     As used herein, the term "CrtE" refers to a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme encoded by the  crtE  gene and which converts trans-trans-farnesyl diphosphate and isopentenyl diphosphate to pyrophosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate. 
     
    
    [0090]
     As used herein, the term "Idi" refers to an isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase enzyme (E.C. 5.3.3.2) encoded by the  idi gene.   
     
    
    [0091]
     As used herein, the term "CrtY" refers to a lycopene cyclase enzyme encoded by the  crtY  gene which converts lycopene to β-carotene. 
     
    
    [0092]
     As used herein, the term "Crtl" refers to a phytoene desaturase enzyme encoded by the  crtl  gene. Crtl converts phytoene into lycopene via the intermediaries of phytofluene, ζ-carotene and neurosporene by the introduction of 4 double bonds. 
     
    
    [0093]
     As used herein, the term "CrtB" refers to a phytoene synthase enzyme encoded by the  crtB  gene which catalyzes the reaction from prephytoene diphosphate to phytoene. 
     
    
    [0094]
     As used herein, the term CrtZ" refers to a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme (e.g. β-carotene hydroxylase), also called 3,3'β-ionone hydroxylase encoded by the  crtZ  gene which catalyzes a hydroxylation reaction. The oxidation reaction adds a hydroxyl group to cyclic carotenoids having a β-ionone type ring at 3 and/or 3' position. This reaction converts cyclic carotenoids, such as β-carotene or canthaxanthin, into the hydroxylated carotenoids zeaxanthin or astaxanthin, respectively. Intermediates in the process typically include β-cryptoxanthin and adonirubin. It is known that CrtZ hydroxylases typically exhibit substrate flexibility, enabling production of a variety of hydroxylated carotenoids depending upon the available substrates. 
     
    
    [0095]
     As used herein, the term "CrtW" refers to a β-carotene ketolase enzyme encoded by the  crtW  gene that catalyzes an oxidation reaction where a keto group is introduced on the β-ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids. The term "carotenoid ketolase" or "ketolase" refers to the group of enzymes that can add keto groups to the 4 and/or 4' positions of ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids. 
     
    
    [0096]
     As used herein, the term "CrtX" refers to a zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase enzyme encoded by the crtX gene and which converts zeaxanthin to zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside. 
     
    
    [0097]
     As used herein, the term "hydroxyl group" refers to a univalent radical or group comprised of one oxygen and one hydrogen atom ("-OH"). 
     
    
    [0098]
     As used herein, the term "keto group" or "ketone group" will be used interchangeably and refers to a group in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: R 2 C=O (neither R may be H). 
     
    
    [0099]
     As used herein, the term "ketocarotenoid" refers to carotenoids possessing at least on keto group on the ionone ring of a cyclic carotenoid. Examples of ketocarotenoids include canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0100]
     As used herein, the term "cyclic carotenoid" refers to a carotenoid having at least one β-ionone ring or β-ionone ring derivative capable of being hydroxylated by the present CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylases. 
     
    
    [0101]
     As used herein, the terms "carotenoid hydroxylase", "β-carotene hydroxylase", "hydroxylase", and "CrtZ hydroxylase" are used interchangeably and refer to the carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme encoded by a  crtZ  gene that catalyzes the addition of a hydroxyl group to a β-ionone ring of a cyclic carotenoid. 
     
    
    [0102]
     As used herein, the term "hydroxylated carotenoid" refers to carotenoids possessing at least one hydroxyl group on the ionone ring of a cyclic carotenoid. Examples of hydroxylated carotenoids include zeaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0103]
     As used herein, "substantially similar" refers to nucleic acid molecules wherein changes in one or more nucleotide bases results in substitution of one or more amino acids, but do not affect the functional properties of the protein encoded by the DNA sequence. "Substantially similar" also refers to nucleic acid molecules wherein changes in one or more nucleotide bases does not affect the ability of the nucleic acid molecule to mediate alteration of gene expression by antisense or co-suppression technology. "Substantially similar" also refers to modifications of the nucleic acid molecules of the instant invention such as deletion or insertion of one or more nucleotide bases that do not substantially affect the functional properties of the resulting transcript. It is therefore understood that the invention encompasses more than the specific exemplary sequences. Substantially similar sequences that fall within the scope of the claims form part of the invention. 
     
    
    [0104]
     For example, it is well known in the art that alterations in a gene which result in the production of a chemically equivalent amino acid at a given site, but do not effect the functional properties of the encoded protein are common. Substitutions are defined as exchanges within one of the following five groups:
       1. Small aliphatic, nonpolar or slightly polar residues: Ala, Ser, Thr (Pro, Gly);   2. Polar, negatively charged residues and their amides: Asp, Asn, Glu, Gln;   3. Polar, positively charged residues: His, Arg, Lys;   4. Large aliphatic, nonpolar residues: Met, Leu, lie, Val (Cys); and   5. Large aromatic residues: Phe, Tyr, Trp.   
   
    
    [0105]
     Thus, a codon for the amino acid alanine, a hydrophobic amino acid, may be substituted by a codon encoding another less hydrophobic residue (such as glycine) or a more hydrophobic residue (such as valine, leucine, or isoleucine). Similarly, changes which result in substitution of one negatively charged residue for another (such as asparlic acid for glutamic acid) or one positively charged residue for another (such as lysine for arginine) can also be expected to produce a functionally equivalent product. 
     
    
    [0106]
     In many cases, nucleotide changes which result in alteration of the N-terminal and C-terminal portions of the protein molecule would also not be expected to alter the activity of the protein. 
     
    
    [0107]
     Each of the proposed modifications is well within the routine skill in the art, as is determination of retention of biological activity of the encoded products. Moreover, the skilled artisan recognizes that substantially similar sequences disclosed herein are also defined by their ability to hybridize, under stringent conditions (0.1 X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65°C and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1 % SDS followed by 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS), with the sequences exemplified herein. Substantially similar nucleic acid molecules disclosed herein are those nucleic acid molecules whose DNA sequences are at least 80% or 90% or 95% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid molecules reported herein. Nucleic acid molecules that fall within the scope of claims 1 and 2 form part of the invention. 
     
    
    [0108]
     A nucleic acid molecule is "hybridizable" to another nucleic acid molecule, such as a cDNA, genomic DNA, or RNA, when a single stranded form of the nucleic acid molecule can anneal to the other nucleic acid molecule under the appropriate conditions of temperature and solution ionic strength. Hybridization and washing conditions are well known and exemplified in  Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor (1989), particularly Chapter 11  and Table 11.1 therein (hereinafter "Maniatis"). The conditions of temperature and ionic strength determine the "stringency" of the hybridization. Stringency conditions can be adjusted to screen for moderately similar molecules, such as homologous sequences from distantly related organisms, to highly similar molecules, such as genes that duplicate functional enzymes from closely related organisms. 
     
    
    [0109]
     Post-hybridization washes determine stringency conditions. One set of preferred conditions uses a series of washes starting with 6X SSC, 0.5% SDS at room temperature for 15 min, then repeated with 2X SSC, 0.5% SDS at 45°C for 30 min, and then repeated twice with 0.2X SSC, 0.5% SDS at 50°C for 30 min. A more preferred set of stringent conditions uses higher temperatures in which the washes are identical to those above except for the temperature of the final two 30 min washes in 0.2X SSC, 0.5% SDS was increased to 60°C. Another preferred set of highly stringent conditions uses two final washes in 0.1 X SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65°C. Hybridization requires that the two nucleic acids contain complementary sequences, although depending on the stringency of the hybridization, mismatches between bases are possible. The appropriate stringency for hybridizing nucleic acids depends on the length of the nucleic acids and the degree of complementation, variables well known in the art. The greater the degree of similarity or homology between two nucleotide sequences, the greater the value of T m  for hybrids of nucleic acids having those sequences. The relative stability (corresponding to higher T m ) of nucleic acid hybridizations decreases in the following order RNA:RNA, DNA:RNA, DNA:DNA. For hybrids of greater than 100 nucleotides in length, equations for calculating T m  have been derived (see Maniatis,  supra,  9.50-9.51). For hybridizations with shorter nucleic acids, i.e., oligonucleotides, the position of mismatches becomes more important, and the length of the oligonucleotide determines its specificity (see Maniatis,  supra,  11.7-11.8). The length for a hybridizable nucleic acid may be at least about 10 nucleotides. A minimum length for a hybridizable nucleic acids may be at least about 15 nucleotides; or at ieast about 20 nucleotides; the length may also be at least about 30 nucleotides. Furthermore, the skilled artisan will recognize that the temperature and wash solution salt concentration may be adjusted as necessary according to factors such as length of the probe. 
     
    
    [0110]
     As used herein, the phrase "substantial portion" is used to describe an amino acid or nucleotide sequence comprising enough of the amino acid sequence of a polypeptide or the nucleotide sequence of a gene to putatively identify that polypeptide or gene, either by manual evaluation of the sequence by one skilled in the art, or by computer-automated sequence comparison and identification using algorithms such as BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool;  Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol., 215:403-410 (1993 )). In general, a sequence of about ten or more contiguous amino-acids or about thirty or more nucleotides is necessary in order to putatively identify a polypeptide or nucleic acid sequence as homologous to a known, protein or gene. Moreover, with respect to nucleotide sequences, gene specific oligonucleotide probes comprising about 20-30 contiguous nucleotides may be used in sequence-dependent methods of gene identification (e.g., Southern hybridization) and isolation (e.g.,  in situ  hybridization of bacterial colonies or bacteriophage plaques). In addition, short oligonucleotides of about 12-15 bases may be used as amplification primers in PCR in order to obtain a particular nucleic acid molecule comprising the primers. Accordingly, a "substantial portion" of a nucleotide sequence comprises enough of the sequence to specifically identify and/or isolate a nucleic acid molecule comprising the sequence. The instant specification teaches partial or complete amino acid and nucleotides sequences encoding one or more particular microbial proteins. The skilled artisan, having the benefit of the sequences as reported herein, may now use all or a substantial portion of the disclosed sequences for purposes known to those skilled in this art. Accordingly, the instant invention comprises the complete sequences as reported in the accompanying Sequence Listing, as well as substantial portions of those sequences as defined above, that fall within the scope of the claims. 
     
    
    [0111]
     The term "complementary" is used to describe the relationship between nucleotide bases that are capable to hybridizing to one another. For example, with respect to DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine and cytosine is complementary to guanine. Accordingly, the instant invention also includes isolated nucleic acid molecules that are complementary to the complete sequences as reported in the accompanying Sequence Listing as well as those substantially similar nucleic acid sequences, that fall within the scope of the claims. 
     
    
    [0112]
     The term "percent identity", as known in the art, is a relationship between two or more polypeptide sequences or two or more polynucleotide sequences, as determined by comparing the sequences. In the art, "identity" also means the degree of sequence relatedness between polypeptide or polynucleotide sequences, as the case may be, as determined by the match between strings of such sequences. "Identity" and "similarity" can be readily calculated by known methods, including but not limited to those described in:  Computational Molecular Biology (Lesk, A. M., ed.) Oxford University Press, NY (1988 );  Biocomputing: Informatics and Genome Projects (Smith, D. W., ed.) Academic Press, NY (1993 );  Computer Analysis of Sequence Data, Part I (Griffin, A. M., and Griffin, H. G., eds.) Humana Press, NJ (1994 );  Sequence Analysis in Molecular Biology (von Heinje, G., ed.) Academic Press (9987 ); and  Sequence Analysis Primer (Gribskov, M. and Devereux, J., eds.) Stockton Press, NY (1991 ). Preferred methods to determine identity are designed to give the best match between the sequences tested. Methods to determine identity and similarity are codified in publicly available computer programs. Sequence alignments and percent identity calculations may be performed using the Megalign program of the LASERGENE bioinformatics computing suite (DNASTAR Inc., Madison, WI) or the AlignX program of Vector NTI v. 7.0 (Informax, Inc., Bethesda, MD). Multiple alignment of the sequences can be performed using the Clustal method of alignment ( Higgins and Sharp, CABIOS, 5:151-153 (1989 )) with the default parameters (GAP PENALTY=10, GAP LENGTH PENALTY=10). Default parameters for pairwise alignments using the Clustal method are typically KTUPLE 1 , GAP PENALTY=3, WINDOW=5 and DIAGONALS SAVED=5. 
     
    
    [0113]
     Nucleic acid molecules may encode polypeptides that are at least about 80% or 90% identical to the Amino acid sequences reported herein. Nucleic acid molecules (isolated polynucleotides of the present invention) encode amino acid sequences that are at least about 95%, identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. Suitable nucleic acid molecules may have the above homologies, but also typically encode a polypeptide having about 161 amino acids. 
     
    
    [0114]
     As used herein, the terms "divergent gene", "divergent hydroxylase", and "divergent sequence" are used Interchangeable and refer to the lack of nucleic acid molecule sequence identity among CrtZ hydroxylases. Nucleotide sequence comparisons between 2 or more  crtZ  genes allows classification of the relationship(s) as to the relative degree of sequence identity. Simultaneous expression of highly homologous (i.e. having high nucleotide sequence identity) genes tends to result in genetic instability. Expression of moderately or highly divergent genes is likely to result in stable coexpression. Preferred  crtZ  hydroxylase genes useful for coexpression are those that share less than about 75% identify when compared by sequence alignment. More preferred  crtZ  hydroxylase genes for coexpression are those that share less than about 65% identify when compared by sequence alignment. Even more preferred  crtZ  genes for coexpression are those that share less than about 60% identify when compared by sequence alignment. Most preferred  crtZ  genes for coexpression are those that share less than about 55% identify when compared by sequence alignment. 
     
    
    [0115]
     As used herein, "codon degeneracy" refers to the nature in the genetic code permitting variation of the nucleotide sequence without affecting the amino acid sequence of an encoded polypeptide. Accordingly, the present invention relates to any nucleic acid molecule that encodes all or a substantial portion of the amino acid sequences encoding the present microbial polypeptide as set forth in SEQ ID NO:17, as long as the nucleic acid molecule falls within the claim scope. Nucleic acid molecules that encode all or a substantial portion of the amino acid sequences encoding SEQ ID NO: 20 are also disclosed. The skilled artisan is well aware of the "codon-bias" exhibited by a specific host cell in usage of nucleotide codons to specify a given amino acid. Therefore, when synthesizing a gene for improved expression in a host cell, it is desirable to design the gene such that its frequency of codon usage approaches the frequency of preferred codon usage of the host cell. 
     
    
    [0116]
     "Synthetic genes" can be assembled from oligonucleotide building blocks that are chemically synthesized using procedures known to those skilled in the art. These building blocks are ligated and anneated to form gene segments which are then enzymatically assembled to construct the entire gene. "Chemically synthesized", as related to a sequence of DNA, means that the component nucleotides were assembled  in vitro.  Manual chemical synthesis of DNA may be accomplished using well-established procedures, or automated chemical synthesis can be performed using one of a number of commercially available machines. Accordingly, the genes can be tailored for optimal gene expression based on optimization of nucleotide sequence to reflect the codon bias of the host cell. The skilled artisan appreciates the likelihood of successful gene expression if codon usage is biased towards those codons favored by the host. Determination of preferred codons can be based on a survey of genes derived from the host cell where sequence information is available. 
     
    
    [0117]
     "Gene" refers to a nucleic acid molecule that expresses a specific protein. As used herein, it may or may not including regulatory sequences preceding (5 non-coding sequences) and following (3' non-coding sequences) the coding sequence. "Native gene" refers to a gene as found in nature with its own regulatory sequences. "Chimeric gene" refers to any gene that is not a native gene, comprising regulatory and coding sequences that are not found together in nature. Accordingly, a chimeric gene may comprise regulatory sequences and coding sequences that are derived from different sources, or regulatory sequences and coding sequences derived from the same source, but arranged in a manner different than that found in nature. "Endogenous gene" refers to a native gene in its natural location in the genome of an organism. A "foreign" gene refers to a gene not normally found in the host organism, but that is introduced into the host organism by gene transfer. Foreign genes can comprise native genes inserted into a non-native organism, or chimeric genes. A "transgene" is a gene that has been introduced into the genome by a transformation procedure. 
     
    
    [0118]
     The term "genetic construct" refers to a series of contiguous nucleic acids useful for modulating the genotype of an organism. Non-limiting examples of genetic constructs include but are not limited to a nucleic acid molecule, and open reading frame, a gene, a plasmid and the like. 
     
    
    [0119]
     "Coding sequence" refers to a DNA sequence that codes for a specific amino acid sequence. As used herein, "suitable regulatory sequences" refer to nucleotide sequences located upstream (5' non-coding sequences), within, or downstream (3' non-coding sequences) of a coding sequence, and which influence the transcription, RNA processing or stability, or translation of the associated coding sequence. Regulatory sequences may include promoters, translation leader sequences, introns, polyadenylation recognition sequences, RNA processing site, effector binding site and stem-loop structure. 
     
    
    [0120]
     "Promoter" refers to a DNA sequence capable of controlling the expression of a coding sequence or functional RNA. In general, a coding sequence is located 3' to a promoter sequence. Promoters may be derived in their entirety from a native gene, or be composed of different elements derived from different promoters found in nature, or even comprise synthetic DNA segments. It is understood by those skilled in the art that different promoters may direct the expression of a gene in different tissues or cell types, or at different stages of development, or in response to different environmental or physiological conditions. Promoters which cause a gene to be expressed in most cell types at most times are commonly referred to as "constitutive promoters". It is further recognized that since in most cases the exact boundaries of regulatory sequences have not been completely defined, DNA fragments of different lengths may have identical promoter activity. 
     
    
    [0121]
     The "3' non-coding sequences" refer to DNA sequences located downstream of a coding sequence and include polyadenylation recognition sequences (normally limited to eukaryotes) and other sequences encoding regulatory signals capable of affecting mRNA processing or gene expression. The polyadenylation signal is usually characterized by affecting the addition of polyadenylic acid tracts (normally limited to eukaryotes) to the 3' end of the mRNA precursor. 
     
    
    [0122]
     "RNA transcript" refers to the product resulting from RNA polymerase-catalyzed transcription of a DNA sequence. When the RNA transcript is a perfect complementary copy of the DNA sequence, it is referred to as the primary transcript or it may be a RNA sequence derived from post-transcriptional processing of the primary transcript and is referred to as the mature RNA. "Messenger RNA (mRNA)" refers to the RNA that is without introns and that can be translated into protein by the cell. "cDNA" refers to a double-stranded DNA that is complementary to and derived from mRNA. "Sense" RNA refers to RNA transcript that includes the mRNA and so can be translated into protein by the cell. "Antisense RNA" refers to a RNA transcript that is complementary to all or part of a target primary transcript or mRNA and that blocks the expression of a target gene (   US 5,107,065   ;    WO 99/28508   ). The complementarity of an antisense RNA may be with any part of the specific gene transcript, i.e., at the 5' non-coding sequence, 3' non-coding sequence, or the coding sequence. "Functional RNA" refers to antisense RNA, ribozyme RNA, or other RNA that is not translated yet has an effect on cellular processes. 
     
    
    [0123]
     The term "operably linked" refers to the association of nucleic acid sequences on a single nucleic acid molecule so that the function of one is affected by the other. For example, a promoter is operably linked with a coding sequence when it is capable of affecting the expression of that coding sequence (i.e., that the coding sequence is under the transcriptional control of the promoter). Coding sequences can be operably linked to regulatory sequences in sense or antisense orientation. 
     
    
    [0124]
     The term "expression", as used herein, refers to the transcription and stable accumulation of sense (mRNA) or antisense RNA derived from the nucleic acid molecule of the invention. Expression may also refer to translation of mRNA into a polypeptide. 
     
    
    [0125]
     'Transformation" refers to the transfer of a nucleic acid molecule into the genome of a host organism, resulting in genetically stable inheritance. In the present invention, the host cell's genome includes chromosomal and extrachromosomal (e.g. plasmid) genes. Host organisms containing the transformed nucleic acid molecules are referred to as "transgenic" or "recombinant" or "transformed" organisms. 
     
    
    [0126]
     "Conjugation" refers to a particular type of transformation in which a unidirectional transfer of DNA (e.g., from a bacterial plasmid) occurs from one bacterium cell (i.e., the "donor") to another (i.e., the "recipient"). The process involves direct cell-to-cell contact. 
     
    
    [0127]
     The term "carbon substrate" refers to a carbon source capable of being metabolized by host organisms of the present invention and particularly carbon sources selected from the group consisting of monosaccharides, disaccharides, polysaccharides, and one-carbon substrates or mixtures thereof. The term "C 1  carbon substrate" refers to any carbon-containing molecule that lacks a carbon-carbon bond. Non-limiting examples are methane, methanol, formaldehyde, formic acid, formate, methylated amines (e.g., mono-, di-, and tri-methyl amine), methylated thiols, and carbon dioxide. Particularly preferred are those organisms capable of metabolizing methane and/or methanol. 
     
    
    [0128]
     The term "C 1  metabolizer" refers to a microorganism that has the ability to use a single carbon substrate as its sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizers will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs. The term "C 1  metabolizing bacteria" refers to bacteria that have the ability to use a single carbon substrate as their sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizing bacteria, a subset of C 1  metabolizers, will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs. 
     
    
    [0129]
     The term "methylotroph" means an organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. Where the methylotroph is able to oxidize CH 4 , the methylotroph is also a methanotroph. In one aspect, the microbial host cell is a methylotroph grown on methane and/or methanol as a primary carbon source. 
     
    
    [0130]
     The term "methanotroph" or "methanotrophic bacteria" means a prokaryote capable of utilizing methane as its primary source of carbon and energy. Complete oxidation of methane to carbon dioxide occurs by aerobic degradation pathways. Typical examples of methanotrophs useful in the present invention include (but are not limited to) the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus,  and  Methylosinus.  In one aspect, the methanotroph is a high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain grown on methane and/or methanol. In another aspect, the methanotroph is a  Methylomonas sp.  16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof. 
     
    
    [0131]
     The term "high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain" refers to a bacterium capable of growth with methane or methanol as the sole carbon and energy source and which possesses a functional Embden-Meyerhof carbon flux pathway, resulting in a high rate of growth and yield of cell mass per gram of C 1  substrate metabolized (   US 6689601   ). The specific "high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain" described herein is referred to as  "Methylomonas  16a", "16a" or  "Methylomonas sp.  16a", which terms are used interchangeably and which refer to the  Methylomonas  strain  (Methylomonas sp.  16a ATCC PTA-2402) used in the present invention. 
     
    
    [0132]
     As used herein, the term "CrtN1" refers to an enzyme encoded by the crtN1 gene, active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is located within an operon comprising  crtN2  and  ald.   
     
    
    [0133]
     As used herein, the term "ALD" refers to an enzyme encoded by the  ald  gene, active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is located within an operon comprising  crtN1  and  crtN2.   
     
    
    [0134]
     As used herein, the term "CrtN2" refers to an enzyme encoded by the  crtN2  gene, active in the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is located within an operon comprising  crtN1  and  ald.   
     
    
    [0135]
     As used herein, the term "CrtN3" refers to an enzyme encoded by the  crtN3  gene, affecting the native carotenoid biosynthetic of  Methylomonas sp.  16a. This gene is not located within the  crT  gene cluster; instead this gene is present in a different location in the  Methylomonas  genome. 
     
    
    [0136]
     As used herein, the term "MWM1200 (Δ crt  cluster promoter +  ΔcrtN3)"  or "MWM1200" refers to a mutant strain of  Methylomonas sp.  16a in which the  crt  cluster promoter and the  crtN3  gene have been disrupted. Disruption of the native C 30  carotenoid biosynthetic pathway results in suitable background (pigmentless) for engineering C 40  carotenoid production. The  Methylomonas  MWM1200 strain was previously created and is a suitable carotenoid production host (   US 20050924033   ). 
     
    
    [0137]
     The term "pigmentless" or "white mutant" refers to a  Methylomonas sp.  16a bacterium wherein the native pink pigment (e.g., a C 30  carotenoid) is not produced. Thus, the bacterial cells appear white in color, as opposed to pink. 
     
    
    [0138]
     The terms "plasmid", "vector" and "cassette" refer to an extrachromosomal element often carrying genes which are not part of the central metabolism of the cell, and usually in the form of circular double-stranded DNA molecules. Such elements may be autonomously replicating sequences, genome integrating sequences, phage or nucleotide sequences, linear or circular, of a single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA, derived from any source, in which a number of nucleotide sequences have been joined or recombined into a unique construction which is capable of introducing a promoter fragment and DNA sequence for a selected gene product along with appropriate 3' untranslated sequence into a cell. "Transformation cassette" refers to a specific vector containing a foreign gene and having elements in addition to the foreign gene that facilitate transformation of a particular host cell. "Expression cassette" refers to a specific vector containing a foreign gene and having elements in addition to the foreign gene that allow for enhanced expression of that gene in a foreign host. 
     
    
    [0139]
     As used herein, the term "altered biological activity" will refer to an activity, associated with a protein encoded by a microbial nucleotide sequence which can be measured by an assay method, where that activity is either greater than or less than the activity associated with the native microbial sequence. "Enhanced biological activity" refers to an altered activity that is greater than that associated with the native sequence. "Diminished biological activity" is an altered activity that is less than that associated with the native sequence. 
     
    
    [0140]
     The term "sequence analysis software" refers to any computer algorithm or software program that is useful for the analysis of nucleotide or amino acid sequences. "Sequence analysis software" may be commercially available or independently developed. Typical sequence analysis software will include, but is not limited to, the GCG suite of programs (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, WI), BLASTP, BLASTN, BLASTX ( Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410 (1990 ), and DNASTAR (DNASTAR, Inc. 1228 S. Park St. Madison, WI 53715 USA), and the FASTA program incorporating the Smith-Waterman algorithm ( W. R. Pearson, Comput. Methods Genome Res., [Proc. Int. Symp.] (1994), Meeting Date 1992,111-20. Editor(s): Suhai, Sandor. Publisher: Plenum, New York, NY ), Vector NTI (Informax, Bethesda, MD) and Sequencher ™  v. 4.05. Within the context of this application it will be understood that where sequence analysis software is used for analysis, that the results of the analysis will be based on the "default values" of the program referenced, unless otherwise specified. As used herein "default values" will mean any set of values or parameters set by the software manufacturer that originally load with the software when first initialized. 
     
    
    [0141]
     The present invention provides a newly discovered CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylase isolated from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  C263 (   US 20050227311   ). Additionally, the function of a hypothetical protein from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700728 (GenBank® ZP_00094836.1 ; SEQ ID NO: 20) has been characterized in the present application as having carotenoid hydroxylase activity. Both carotenoid hydroxylases have been shown to produce hydroxylated carotenoids by the present methods. The present sequence may be used  in vitro  and  in vivo  in recombinant hosts for the production of hydroxylated carotenoids from cyclic carotenoid compounds. 
     
    
    [0142]
     Comparison of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 crtZ nucleotide base and deduced amino acid sequence to public databases reveals that the most similar known sequence has about 51 % identity to the amino acid sequence of reported herein over length of 161 amino acids using the BLOSUM62 matrix of the BLASTP search (Table 3). Pairwise comparison values reported in Table 4 were obtained using Align X in Vector NTI. Accordingly amino acid fragments may beat least about 80% identical to the sequences herein, or at least about 90% identical to the amino acid fragments reported herein. Amino acid sequences are at least about 95% identical to the amino acid fragments reported herein, and most preferred are nucleic acid molecules that are at least 99% identical to the amino acid molecules reported herein. Polypeptides of the invention are as defined in  claim  3. 
     
    
    [0143]
     Similarly, the  crtZ  genes disclosed herein may comprise nucleic acid sequences encoding active proteins and which are at least 80% or 90% identical to the present nucleic add sequence reported herein.  CrtZ  nucleic acid molecules may also be at least 95% identical to the nucleic acid sequences herein or at least 99% identical to the nucleic acid molecules reported herein. Nucleic acid molecules of the invention are defined in claims 1 and 2. 
   
 Isolation of Homologs 
 
   
    
    [0144]
     The nucleic acid molecules of the instant invention may be used to isolate genes encoding homologous proteins from the same or other microbial species. Isolation of homologous genes using sequence-dependent protocols is well known in the art. Examples of sequence-dependent protocols include, but are not limited to, methods of nucleic acid hybridization, and methods of DNA and RNA amplification as exemplified by various uses of nucleic acid amplification technologies (e.g. polymerase chain reaction (PCR),    Mullis et al., US 4,683,202   ), ligase chain reaction (LCR),  Tabor, S. et al., Proc. Acad. Sci. USA 82:1074 (1985 )) or strand displacement amplification (SDA,  Walker, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 89:392 (1992 )). A method of obtaining a nucleic acid molecule according to the present invention is as claimed in claim 9. 
     
    
    [0145]
     For example, genes encoding similar proteins or polypeptides to those of the instant invention could be isolated directly by using all or a portion of the instant nucleic acid molecules as DNA hybridization probes to screen libraries from any desired bacteria using methodology well known to those skilled in the art. Specific oligonucleotide probes based upon the instant nucleic acid sequences can be designed and synthesized by methods known in the art (Maniatis,  supra ). Moreover, the entire sequences can be used directly to synthesize DNA probes by methods known to the skilled artisan such as random primers DNA labeling, nick translation, end-labeling techniques, or RNA probes using available  in vitro  transcription systems. In addition, specific primers can be designed and used to amplify a part of or the full-length of the instant sequences. The resulting amplification products can be labeled directly during amplification reactions or labeled after amplification reactions, and used as probes to isolate full length DNA fragments under conditions of appropriate stringency. 
     
    
    [0146]
     Typically, in PCR-type amplification techniques, the primers have different sequences and are not complementary to each other. Depending on the desired test conditions, the sequences of the primers should be designed to provide for both efficient and faithful replication of the target nucleic acid. Methods of PCR primer design are common and well known in the art. ( Thein and Wallace, " The use of oligonucleotide as specific hybridization probes In the Diagnosis of Genetic Disorders ", in Human Genetic Diseases: A Practical Approach, K. E. Davis Ed., (1986) pp. 33-50 IRL Press, Herndon, Virginia );  Rychlik, W. (1993) In White, B. A. (ed.), Methods in Molecular Biology, Vol. 15, pages 31-39, " PCR Protocols: Current Methods and Applications ", Humania Press, Inc., Totowa, NJ .) 
     
    
    [0147]
     Generally two short segments of the instant sequences may be used in polymerase chain reaction protocols to amplify longer nucleic acid molecules encoding homologous genes from DNA or RNA. The polymerase chain reaction may also be performed on a library of cloned nucleic acid molecules wherein the sequence of one primer is derived from the instant nucleic acid molecules, and the sequence of the other primer takes advantage of the presence of the polyadenylic acid tracts to the 3' end of the mRNA precursor of a eukaryotic gene. In the case of microbial genes which lack polyadenylated mRNA, random primers may be used. Random primers may also be useful for amplification from DNA. 
     
    
    [0148]
     Alternatively, the second primer sequence may be based upon sequences derived from the cloning vector. For example, the skilled artisan can follow the RACE protocol ( Frohman et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A, 85:8998 (1988 )) to generate cDNAs by using PCR to amplify copies of the region between a single point in the transcript and the 3' or 5' end. Primers oriented in the 3' and 5' directions can be designed from the instant sequences. Using commercially available 3' RACE or 5' RACE systems (BRL), specific 3' or 5' cDNA fragments can be isolated ( Ohara et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A, 86:5673 (1989 );  Loh et al., Science 243:217 (1989 )). 
     
    
    [0149]
     Alternatively, the present sequences may be employed as hybridization reagents for the identification of homologs. The basic components of a nucleic acid hybridization test include a probe, a sample suspected of containing the gene or gene fragment of interest, and a specific hybridization method. Probes of the present invention are typically single stranded nucleic acid sequences which are complementary to the nucleic acid sequences to be detected. Probes are "hybridizable" to the nucleic acid sequence to be detected. The probe length can vary from 5 bases to tens of thousands of bases, and will depend upon the specific test to be done. Typically a probe length of about 15 bases to about 30 bases is suitable. Only part of the probe molecule need be complementary to the nucleic acid sequence to be detected. In addition, the complementarity between the probe and the target sequence need not be perfect. Hybridization does occur between imperfectly complementary molecules with the result that a certain fraction of the bases in the hybridized region are not paired with the proper complementary base. 
     
    
    [0150]
     Hybridization methods are well defined. Typically the probe and sample must be mixed under conditions which will permit nucleic acid hybridization. This involves contacting the probe and sample in the presence of an inorganic or organic salt under the proper concentration and temperature conditions. The probe and sample nucleic acids must be in contact for a long enough time that any possible hybridization between the probe and sample nucleic acid may occur. The concentration of probe or target in the mixture will determine the time necessary for hybridization to occur. The higher the probe or target concentration the shorter the hybridization incubation time needed. Optionally a chaotropic agent may be added. The chaotropic agent stabilizes nucleic acids by inhibiting nuclease activity. Furthermore, the chaotropic agent allows sensitive and stringent hybridization of short oligonucleotide probes at room temperature ( Van Ness and Chen, Nucl. Acids Res. 19:5143-5151 (1991 )). Suitable chaotropic agents include guanidinium chloride, guanidinium thiocyanate, sodium thiocyanate, lithium tetrachloroacetate, sodium perchlorate, rubidium tetrachloroacetate, potassium iodide, and cesium trifluoroacetate, among others.. Typically, the chaotropic agent will be present at a final concentration of about 3M. If desired, one can add formamide to the hybridization mixture, typically 30-50% (v/v). 
     
    
    [0151]
     Various hybridization solutions can be employed. Typically, these comprise from about 20 to 60% volume, preferably 30%, of a polar organic solvent. A common hybridization solution employs about 30-50% v/v formamide, about 0.15 to 1M sodium chloride, about 0.05 to 0.1 M buffers, such as sodium citrate, Tris-HCl, PIPES or HEPES (pH range about 6-9), about 0.05 to 0.2% detergent, such as sodium dodecylsulfate, or between 0.5-20 mM EDTA, FICOLL (Pharmacia Inc.) (about 300-500 kilodaltons), polyvinylpyrrolidone (about 250-500 kdal), and serum albumin. Also included in the typical hybridization solution will be unlabeled carrier nucleic acids from about 0.1 to 5 mg/mL, fragmented nucleic DNA, e.g., calf thymus or salmon sperm DNA, or yeast RNA, and optionally from about 0.5 to 2% wt./vol. glycine. Other additives may also be included, such as volume exclusion agents which include a variety of polar water-soluble or swellable agents, such as polyethylene glycol, anionic polymers such as polyacrylate or polymethylacrylate, and anionic saccharidic polymers, such as dextran sulfate. 
     
    
    [0152]
     Nucleic acid hybridization is adaptable to a variety of assay formats. One of the most suitable is the sandwich assay format. The sandwich assay is particularly adaptable to hybridization under non-denaturing conditions. A primary component of a sandwich-type assay is a solid support. The solid support has adsorbed to it or covalently coupled to it immobilized nucleic acid probe that is unlabeled and complementary to one portion of the sequence. 
     
    
    [0153]
     Availability of the instant nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences facilitates immunological screening DNA expression libraries. Synthetic peptides representing portions of the instant amino acid sequences may be synthesized. These peptides can be used to immunize animals to produce polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies with specificity for peptides or proteins comprising the amino acid sequences. These antibodies can be then be used to screen DNA expression libraries to isolate full-length DNA clones of interest ( Lemer, R. A., Adv. Immunol,. 36:1 (1984 ); Maniatis,  supra ). 
   Recombinant  Expression - Microbial   
   
    
    [0154]
     The gene(s) and gene product(s) of the instant sequences may be produced in heterologous host cells, particularly in the cells of microbial hosts. Expression in recombinant microbial hosts may be useful for the expression of various pathway intermediates, for the modulation of pathways already existing in the host, or for the synthesis of new products heretofore not possible using the host. 
     
    
    [0155]
     Preferred heterologous host cells for expression of the instant genes and nucleic acid molecules are microbial hosts that can be found broadly within the fungal or bacterial families and which grow over a wide range of temperature, pH values, and solvent tolerances. For example, it is contemplated that any of bacteria, yeast, and filamentous fungi will be suitable hosts for expression of the present nucleic acid molecules. Because of transcription, translation and the protein biosynthetic apparatus is the same irrespective of the cellular feedstock, functional genes are expressed irrespective of carbon feedstock used to generate cellular biomass. Large-scale microbial growth and functional gene expression may utilize a wide range of simple or complex carbohydrates, organic acids and alcohols (i.e. methanol), saturated hydrocarbons such as methane or carbon dioxide in the case of photosynthetic or chemoautotrophic hosts. However, the functional genes may be regulated, repressed or depressed by specific growth conditions, which may include the form and amount of nitrogen, phosphorous, sulfur, oxygen, carbon or any trace micronutrient including small inorganic ions. In addition, the regulation of functional genes may be achieved by the presence or absence of specific regulatory molecules that are added to the culture and are not typically considered nutrient or energy sources. Growth rate may also be an important regulatory factor in gene expression. Examples of host strains include, but are not limited to fungal or yeast species such as  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Hansenula,  or bacterial species such as  Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter, Chlorobium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella,  and  Myxococcus.  Preferred bacterial host strains include  Escherichia, Bacillus,  and  Methylomonas.  The most preferred bacterial host strains include  Methylomonas sp.  16a and mutant derivatives thereof (i.e. mutants derived from  Methylomonas sp.  16a ATCC PTA-2402). 
     
    
    [0156]
     Microbial expression systems and expression vectors containing regulatory sequences that direct high level expression of foreign proteins are well known to those skilled in the art. Any of these could be used to construct chimeric genes for expression of the present carotenoid hydroxylases. These chimeric genes could then be introduced into appropriate microorganisms via transformation to provide high-level expression of the enzymes 
     
    
    [0157]
     Accordingly it is expected, for example, that introduction of chimeric genes encoding the instant bacterial enzymes under the control of the appropriate promoters, will demonstrate increased or altered hydroxylated carotenoid production. It is contemplated that it will be useful to express the instant genes both in natural host cells as well as heterologous host. Introduction of the present  crtZ  genes into native host will result in altered levels of hydroxylated carotenoid production. Additionally, the present genes may also be introduced into non-native host bacteria where the existing carotenoid pathway may be manipulated. 
     
    
    [0158]
     Specific hydroxylated carotenoids that will be produced by the present invention include, but are not limited to zeaxanthin, astaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, adonirubin, adonixanthin, tetrahydroxy-β,β'-caroten-4, 4'-dione, tetrahydroxy-β,β'-caroten-4 -one, caloxanthin, erythroxanthin, nostoxanthin, flexixanthin, 3-hydroxy-γ-carotene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-γ-carotene, bacteriorubixanthin, bacteriorubixanthinal, and lutein. Of particular interest is the production of astaxanthin and zeaxanthin, the synthesis of which is shown in  Figure 1 . The specific substrate for the present CrtZ enzyme is a cyclic carotenoid having at least one β-ionone type ring. Cyclic carotenoids are well known in the art and available commercially. Preferred CrtZ hydroxylase substrates include, but are not limited to β-carotene, canthaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, echinenone, adonirubin, γ-carotene, 4-keto-γ-carotene, deoxy-flexixanthin, and α-carotene. 
     
    
    [0159]
     Vectors or cassettes useful for the transformation of suitable host cells are well known in the art. Typically the vector or cassette contains sequences directing transcription and translation of the relevant gene, a selectable marker, and sequences allowing autonomous replication or chromosomal integration. Suitable vectors comprise a region 5' of the gene which harbors transcriptional initiation controls and a region 3' of the DNA fragment which controls transcriptional termination. It is most preferred when both control regions are derived from genes homologous to the transformed host cell, although it is to be understood that such control regions need not be derived from the genes native to the specific species chosen as a production host. 
     
    
    [0160]
     Initiation control regions or promoters, which are useful to drive expression of the instant ORF's in the desired host cell are numerous and familiar to those skilled in the art. Virtually any promoter capable of driving these genes is suitable for the present invention including but not limited to  CYC1, HIS3, GAL1, GAL10, ADH1, PGK, PHO5, GAPDH, ADC1, TRP1, URA3, LEU2, ENO, TPI  (useful for expression in  Saccharomyces); AOX1  (useful for expression in  Pichia);  and  lac, ara, tet, trp, IP L , IP R , T7, tac , and  trc  (useful for expression in  Escherichia coli)  as well as the  amy, apr, npr  promoters and various phage promoters useful for expression in  Bacillus,  and promoters isolated from the  nrtA, glnB, moxF, glyoxII, htpG,  and  hps  genes useful for expression in  Methylomonas  (   US 2004126848   ). Additionally, promoters such as the chloramphenicol resistance gene promoter ( Pcat ) may also be useful for expression in  Methylomonas.   
     
    
    [0161]
     Termination control regions may also be derived from various genes native to the preferred hosts. Optionally, a termination site may be unnecessary, however, it is most preferred if included. 
     
    
    [0162]
     Knowledge of the sequence of the present gene will be useful in manipulating the carotenoid biosynthetic pathways in any organism having such a pathway and particularly in  Methylomonas sp.  16a and  Escherichia coli.  Methods of manipulating genetic pathways are common and well known in the art. Selected genes in a particularly pathway may be upregulated or down regulated by variety of methods. Additionally, competing pathways organism may be eliminated or sublimated by gene disruption and similar techniques. 
     
    
    [0163]
     Once a key genetic pathway has been identified and sequenced, specific genes may be upregulated to increase the output of the pathway. For example, additional copies of the targeted genes may be introduced into the host cell on multicopy plasmids such as pBR322. Optionally, multiple genes encoding CrtZ hydroxylases may be chromosomally expressed to increase carotenoid production. However, stable chromosomal expression of multiple  crtz  genes generally requires that the coding sequences of the genes used are comprised of nucleotide sequences having low to moderate sequence identity to one another. The present carotenoid hydroxylase genes exhibit relative low to moderate nucleotides sequence identity to all previously reported  crtZ  genes. 
     
    
    [0164]
     Alternatively, the target genes may be modified so as to be under the control of non-native promoters. Where it is desired that a pathway operate at a particular point in a cell cycle or during a fermentation run, regulated or inducible promoters may used to replace the native promoter of the target gene. Similarly, in some cases the native or endogenous promoter may be modified to increase gene expression. For example, endogenous promoters can be altered  in vivo  by mutation, deletion, and/or substitution (see,    Kmiec, US 5,565,350   ;    Zarling et al., WO93/22443   ). 
     
    
    [0165]
     Alternatively, it may be necessary to reduce or eliminate the expression of certain genes in the target pathway or in competing pathways that may serve as competing sinks for energy or carbon. Methods of down-regulating genes for this purpose have been explored. Where sequence of the gene to be disrupted is known, one of the most effective methods gene down regulation is targeted gene disruption where foreign DNA is inserted into a structural gene so as to disrupt transcription. This can be effected by the creation of genetic cassettes comprising the DNA to be inserted (often a genetic marker) flanked by sequence having a high degree of homology to a portion of the gene to be disrupted. Introduction of the cassette into the host cell results in insertion of the foreign DNA into the structural gene via the native DNA replication mechanisms of the cell ( Hamilton et al., J. Bacteriol., 171:4617-4622 (1989 );  Balbas et al., Gene, 136:211-213 (1993 );  Gueldener et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 24:2519-2524 (1996 ); and  Smith et al., Methods Mol. Cell. Biol., 5:270-277 (1996 )). 
     
    
    [0166]
     Antisense technology is another method of down regulating genes where the sequence of the target gene is known. To accomplish this, a nucleic acid segment from the desired gene is cloned and operably linked to a promoter such that the anti-sense strand of RNA will be transcribed. This construct is then introduced into the host cell and the antisense strand of RNA is produced. Antisense RNA inhibits gene expression by preventing the accumulation of mRNA that encodes the protein of interest. The person skilled in the art will know that special considerations are associated with the use of antisense technologies in order to reduce expression of particular genes. For example, the proper level of expression of antisense genes may require the use of different chimeric genes utilizing different regulatory elements known to the skilled artisan. 
     
    
    [0167]
     Although targeted gene disruption and antisense technology offer effective means of down regulating genes where the sequence is known, other less specific methodologies have been developed that are not sequence based. For example, cells may be exposed to UV radiation and then screened for the desired phenotype. Mutagenesis with chemical agents is also effective for generating mutants and commonly used substances include chemicals that affect nonreplicating DNA such as HNO 2  and NH 2 OH, as well as agents that affect replicating DNA such as acridine dyes, notable for causing frameshift mutations. Specific methods for creating mutants using radiation or chemical agents are well documented in the art. See for example  Thomas D. Brock in Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology, Second Edition (1989) Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, MA ., (hereinafter "Brock") or  Deshpande, Mukund V., Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol., 36:227 (1992 ) (hereinafter "Deshpande"). 
     
    
    [0168]
     Another non-specific method of gene disruption is the use of transposable elements or transposons. Transposons are genetic elements that insert randomly in DNA but can be latter retrieved on the basis of sequence to determine where the insertion has occurred. Both  in vivo  and  in vitro  transposition methods are known. Both methods involve the use of a transposable element in combination with a transposase enzyme. When the transposable element or transposon, is contacted with a nucleic acid molecule in the presence of the transposase, the transposable element will randomly insert into the nucleic acid molecule. The technique is useful for random mutageneis and for gene isolation, since the disrupted gene may be identified on the basis of the sequence of the transposable element. Kits for  in vitro  transposition are commercially available (see for example The Primer Island Transposition Kit, available from Perkin Elmer Applied Biosystems, Branchburg, NJ, based upon the yeast Ty1 element; The Genome Priming System, available from New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA; based upon the bacterial transposon Tn7; and the EZ::TN Transposon Insertion Systems, available from Epicentre Technologies, Madison, WI, based upon the Tn5 bacterial transposable element. 
   
 Methylotrophs and  Methylomonas sp .  16a  as Microbial Hosts 
 
   
    
    [0169]
     Although a number of carotenoids have been produced from recombinant microbial sources (e.g.,  E .  coli  and  Candida utilis  for production of lycopene ( Farmer, W.R. and Liao, L.C., Biotechnol. Prog., 17: 57-61 (2001 );  Wang C. et al., Biotechnol Prog., 16: 922-926 (2000 );  Misawa, N. and Shimada, H., J. Biotechnol., 59: 169-181 (1998 );  Shimada, H. et al. Appl. Environm. Microbiol. 64:2676-2680 (1998 ));  E. coli, Candida utilis,  and  Pfaffia rhodozyma  for production of β-carotene. ( Albrecht, M. et al., Biotechnol. Lett. 21: 791-795 (1999 );  Miura, Y. et al., Appl. Environm. Microbiol. 64:1226-1229 (1998 );    US 5,691,190   );  E. coli  and  Candida utilis  for production of zeaxanthin (Albrecht, M. et al.,  supra;  Miura, Y. et al.,  supra); E. coli  and  Pfaffia rhodozyma  for production of astaxanthin (   US 5,466,599   ;    US 6,015,684   ;    US 5,182,208   ;    US 5,972,642   ); see also:    US 5,656,472   ,    US 5,545,816   ,    US 5,530,189   ,    US 5,530,188   ,    US 5,429,939   , and    US 6,124,113   ), these methods of producing carotenoids using various combinations of different crt genes suffer from low yields and reliance on relatively expensive feedstocks. Thus, it would be desirable to identify a method that produces higher yields of carotenoids in a microbial host from an inexpensive feedstock, such as methane or methanol. 
     
    
    [0170]
     There are a number of microorganisms that utilize single carbon substrates as their sole energy source. Such microorganisms are referred to herein as "C 1  metabolizers". These organisms are characterized by the ability to use carbon substrates lacking carbon to carbon bonds as a sole source of energy and biomass. These carbon substrates include, but are not limited to: methane, methanol, formate, formaldehyde, formic acid, methylated amines (e.g., mono-, di- and tri-methyl amine), methylated thiols, carbon dioxide, and various other reduced carbon compounds which lack any carbon-carbon bonds. Preferred substrates include methane and/or methanol. 
     
    
    [0171]
     All C 1  metabolizing microorganisms are generally classified as methylotrophs. Methylotrophs may be defined as any organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. However, facultative methylotrophs, obligate methylotrophs, and obligate methanotrophs are all various subsets of methylotrophs. Specifically:
       Facultative methylotrophs have the ability to oxidize organic compounds which do not contain carbon-carbon bonds, but may also use other carbon substrates such as sugars and complex carbohydrates for energy and biomass. Facultative methylotrophic bacteria are found in many environments, but are isolated most commonly from soil, landfill and waste treatment sites. Many facultative methylotrophs are members of then β and γ subgroups of the Proteobacteria ( Hanson et al., Microb. Growth C1 Compounds., [Int. Symp.], 7th (1993), pp 285-302 .  Murrell, J. Collin and Don P. Kelly, Eds. Intercept: Andover, UK ;  Madigan et al., Brock Biology of Microorganisms, 8th ed., Prentice Hall: UpperSaddle River, NJ (1997 )).   Obligate methylotrophs are those organisms that are limited to the use of organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds for the generation of energy.   Obligate methanotrophs are those obligate methylotrophs that have the distinct ability to oxidize methane.   
   
    
    [0172]
     Additionally, the ability to utilize single carbon substrates is not limited to bacteria but extends also to yeasts and fungi. A number of yeast genera are able to use single carbon substrates as energy sources in addition to more complex materials (i.e., the methylotrophic yeasts). 
     
    
    [0173]
     Although a large number of these methylotrophic organisms are known, few of these microbes have been successfully harnessed in industrial processes for the synthesis of materials. And, although single carbon substrates are cost-effective energy sources, difficulty in genetic manipulation of these microorganisms as well as a dearth of information about their genetic machinery has limited their use primarily to the synthesis of native products. 
     
    
    [0174]
     Despite these difficulties, many methanotrophs contain an inherent isoprenoid pathway that enables these organisms to synthesize pigments and provides the potential for one to envision engineering these microorganisms for production of various non-endogenous isoprenoid compounds. Since methanotrophs can use single carbon substrates (i.e., methane and/or methanol) as an energy source, it could be possible to produce carotenoids at low cost in these organisms. One such example wherein a methanotroph is engineered for production of β-carotene is described in    US 2003 003528   . 
     
    
    [0175]
     Methods are provided for the expression of genes involved in the biosynthesis of carotenoid compounds in microorganisms that are able to use single carbon substrates as a sole energy source. The host microorganism may be any C 1  metabolizer that has the ability to synthesize farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) as a metabolic precursor for carotenoids. More specifically, facultative methylotrophic bacteria suitable in the present invention include, but are not limited to  Mefhylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Nyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas,  and  Pseudomonas.  Specific methylotrophic yeasts useful in the present invention include, but are not limited to:  Candida, Hansenula, Pichia, Torulopsis,  and  Rhodotorula.  Exemplary methanotrophs include, but are not limited to the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacfer, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium,  and  Methanomonas.   
     
    
    [0176]
     Of particular interest in the present invention are high growth obligate methanotrophs having an energetically favorable carbon flux pathway. For example, a specific strain of methanotroph having several pathway features that makes it particularly useful for carbon flux manipulation. This strain is known as  Methylomonas  16a (ATCC PTA 2402) (   US 6689601   ). This particular strain and other related methylotrophs are preferred microbial hosts for expression of the gene products of this invention (i.e. useful for the production of C 40  carotenoids). 
     
    
    [0177]
     An optimized version of  Methylomonas sp.  16a has been created and designated  as Methylomonas sp.  16a MWM1200 (   US 2005 12 4033   ). The endogenous C 30  carotenoid pathway was knocked-out (Δ crt  cluster promoter + Δ crtN3 ), creating an optimized platform for C 40  carotenoid production. The deletion of the promoter responsible for expression of the endogenous  crt  cluster ( crtN1-ald-crtN2  cluster) resulted in a non-pigmented strain (the wild type strain is normally pink in color due to its natural production of C 30  carotenoids). Expression of C 40  carotenoid biosynthesis genes within this optimized host enables increased production of the desired C 40  carotenoids. 
   
 Transformation of C 
 
 1 
 
 Metabolizing Bacterial 
 
   
    
    [0178]
     Electroporation has been used successfully for the transformation of:  Methylobacterium extorquens  AM1 ( Toyama, H., et al., FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 166:1-7 (1998 )),  Methylophilus methylotrophus  AS1 ( Kim, C.S., and T. K. Wood., Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 48:105-108 (1997 )), and  Methylobacillus sp.  strain 12S ( Yoshida, T. et al., Biotechnol. Lett., 23: 787-791 (2001 )). Extrapolation of specific electroporation parameters from one specific C 1  metabolizing utilizing organism to another may be difficult. 
     
    
    [0179]
     Bacterial conjugation, relying on the direct contact of donor and recipient cells, is frequently more readily amenable for the transfer of genes into C 1  metabolizing bacteria. Simplistically, this bacterial conjugation process involves mixing together "donor" and "recipient" cells in close contact with one another. Conjugation occurs by formation of cytoplasmic connections between donor and recipient bacteria, with direct transfer of newly synthesized donor DNA into the recipient cells. As is well known in the art, the recipient in a conjugation is defined as any cell that can accept DNA through horizontal transfer from a donor bacterium. The donor in conjugative transfer is a bacterium that contains a conjugative plasmid, conjugative transposon, or mobilizable plasmid. The physical transfer of the donor plasmid can occur in one of two fashions, as described below:
       1. In some cases, only a donor and recipient are required for conjugation. This occurs when the plasmid to be transferred is a self-transmissible plasmid that is both conjugative and mobilizable (i.e., carrying both  tra  genes and genes encoding the Mob proteins). In general, the process involves the following steps: 1.) Double-strand plasmid DNA is nicked at a specific site in  ori T; 2.) A single-strand DNA is released to the recipient through a pore or pilus structure; 3.) A DNA relaxase enzyme cleaves the double-strand DNA at  ori T and binds to a released 5' end (forming a relaxosome as the intermediate structure); and 4.) Subsequently, a complex of auxiliary proteins assemble at  ori T to facilitate the process of DNA transfer.   2. Alternatively, a "triparental" conjugation is required for transfer of the donor plasmid to the recipient. In this type of conjugation, donor cells, recipient cells, and a "helper" plasmid participate. The donor cells carry a mobilizable plasmid or conjugative transposon. Mobilizable vectors contain an  ori T, a gene encoding a nickase, and have genes encoding the Mob proteins; however, the Mob proteins alone are not sufficient to achieve the transfer of the genome. Thus, mobilizable plasmids are not able to promote their own transfer unless an appropriate conjugation system is provided by a helper plasmid (located within the donor or within a "helper" cell). The conjugative plasmid is needed for the formation of the mating pair and DNA transfer, since the plasmid encodes proteins for transfer (Tra) that are involved in the formation of the pore or pilus.   
   
    
    [0180]
     Examples of successful conjugations involving C 1  metabolizing bacteria include the work of:  Stolyar et al. (Mikrobiologiya 64(5): 686-691 (1995 ));  Motoyama, H. et al. (Appl. Micro. Biotech. 42(1): 67-72 (1994 ));  Lloyd, J.S. et al. (Archives of Microbiology 171 (6): 364-370 (1999 )); and    Odom, J. M. et al. (US 2006 057726   ,    US 2005 124033   , and    US 2003 003528   ). 
   
 Industrial Production 
 
   
    
    [0181]
     Where commercial production of cyclic hydroxylated carotenoid compounds is desired using the present  crtZ  genes, a variety of culture methodologies may be applied. For example, large-scale production of a specific gene product overexpressed from a recombinant microbial host may be produced by both batch and continuous culture methodologies. 
     
    
    [0182]
     A classical batch culturing method is a closed system where the composition of the media is set at the beginning of the culture and not subject to artificial alterations during the culturing process. Thus, at the beginning of the culturing process the media is inoculated with the desired organism or organisms and growth or metabolic activity is permitted to occur adding nothing to the system. Typically, however, a "batch" culture is batch with respect to the addition of carbon source and attempts are often made at controlling factors such as pH and oxygen concentration. In batch systems the metabolite and biomass compositions of the system change constantly up to the time the culture is terminated. Within batch cultures cells moderate through a static lag phase to a high growth log phase and finally to a stationary phase where growth rate is diminished or halted. If untreated, cells in the stationary phase will eventually die. Cells in log phase are often responsible for the bulk of production of end product or intermediate in some systems. Stationary or post-exponential phase production can be obtained in other systems. 
     
    
    [0183]
     A variation on the standard batch system is the fed-batch system. Fed-batch culture processes are also suitable in the present invention and comprise a typical batch system with the exception that the substrate is added in increments as the culture progresses. Fed-batch systems are useful when catabolite repression is apt to inhibit the metabolism of the cells and where it is desirable to have limited amounts of substrate in the media. Measurement of the actual substrate concentration in fed-batch systems is difficult and is therefore estimated on the basis of the changes of measurable factors such as pH, dissolved oxygen and the partial pressure of waste gases such as CO 2 . Batch and fed-batch culturing methods are common and well known in the art and examples may be found in Brock ( supra ) and Deshpande ( supra ). 
     
    
    [0184]
     Commercial production of carotenoids may also be accomplished with a continuous culture. Continuous cultures are an open system where a defined culture media is added continuously to a bioreactor and an equal amount of conditioned media is removed simultaneously for processing. Continuous cultures generally maintain the cells at a constant high liquid phase density where cells are primarily in log phase growth. Alternatively, continuous culture may be practiced with immobilized cells where carbon and nutrients are continuously added, and valuable products, by-products or waste products are continuously removed from the cell mass. Cell immobilization may be performed using a wide range of solid supports composed of natural and/or synthetic materials. 
     
    
    [0185]
     Continuous or semi-continuous culture allows for the modulation of one factor or any number of factors that affect cell growth or end product concentration. For example, one method will maintain a limiting nutrient such as the carbon source or nitrogen level at a fixed rate and allow all other parameters to moderate. In other systems a number of factors affecting growth can be altered continuously while the cell concentration, measured by media turbidity, is kept constant. Continuous systems strive to maintain steady state growth conditions and thus the cell loss due to media being drawn off must be balanced against the cell growth rate in the culture. Methods of modulating nutrients and growth factors for continuous culture processes as well as techniques for maximizing the rate of product formation are well known in the art of industrial microbiology and a variety of methods are detailed by Brock,  supra.   
     
    
    [0186]
     Fermentation media in the present invention must contain suitable carbon substrates. Suitable substrates may include but are not limited to monosaccharides such as glucose and fructose, disaccharides such as lactose or sucrose, polysaccharides such as starch or cellulose or mixtures thereof and unpurified mixtures from renewable feedstocks such as cheese whey permeate, cornsteep liquor, sugar beet molasses, and barley malt. Additionally, the carbon substrate may also be one-carbon substrates such as carbon dioxide, methane or methanol for which metabolic conversion into key biochemical intermediates has been demonstrated. In addition to one and two carbon substrates, methylotrophic organisms are also known to utilize a number of other carbon containing compounds such as methylamine, glucosamine and a variety of amino acids for metabolic activity. For example, methylotrophic yeast are known to utilize the carbon from methylamine to form trehalose or glycerol ( Bellion et al., Microb. Growth C1 Compd., [Int. Symp.], 7th (1993), 415-32. Editor(s): Murrell, J. Collin; Kelly, Don P. Publisher: Intercept, Andover, UK ). Similarly, various species of  Candida  will metabolize alanine or oleic acid ( Sulter et al., Arch. Microbiol., 153:485-489 (1990 )). Hence, it is contemplated that the source of carbon utilized in the present invention may encompass a wide variety of carbon containing substrates and will only be limited by the choice of organism. 
   
 Recombinant Expression - Plants 
 
   
    
    [0187]
     Plants and algae are also known to produce carotenoid compounds. The nucleic acid molecules of the instant invention may be used to create transgenic plants having the ability to express the microbial protein. Preferred plant hosts will be any variety that will support a high production level of the instant proteins. Suitable green plants will include, but are not limited to soybean, rapeseed  (Brassica napus, B. campestris ), pepper, sunflower ( Helianthus annus ), cotton ( Gossypium hirsutum ), com, tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum ), alfalfa ( Medicago sativa ), wheat ( Triticum sp ), barley ( Hordeum vulgare ), oats ( Avena sativa, L ), sorghum ( Sorghum bicolor ), rice ( Oryza sativa ),  Arabidopsis,  cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, parsnips, etc.), melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, and forage grasses. Algal species include, but not limited to commercially significant hosts such as  Spirulina, Haemotacoccus,  and  Dunalliela.  Production of the carotenold compounds may be accomplished by first constructing chimeric genes of present invention in which the coding region are operably linked to promoters capable of directing expression of a gene in the desired tissues at the desired stage of development For reasons of convenience, the chimeric genes may comprise promoter sequences and translation leader sequences derived from the same genes. 3' Non-coding sequences encoding transcription termination signals must also be provided. The instant chimeric genes may also comprise one or more introns in order to facilitate gene expression. 
     
    
    [0188]
     Any combination of any promoter and any terminator capable of inducing expression of a coding region may be used in the chimeric genetic sequence. Some suitable examples of promoters and terminators include those from nopaline synthase ( nos ), octopine synthase ( ocs ) and cauliflower mosaic virus ( CaMV ) genes. One type of efficient plant promoter that may be used is a high-level plant promoter. Such promoters, in operable linkage with the genetic sequences or the present invention should be capable of promoting expression of the present gene product. High-level plant promoters that may be used in this invention include the promoter of the small subunit (ss) of the ribulose-1 ,5-bisphosphate carboxylase from example from soybean ( Berry-Lowe et al., J. Molecular and App. Gen., 1 :483-4981982 )), and the promoter of the chiorophyll a/b binding protein. These two promoters are known to be light-induced in plant cells (see, for example,  Genetic Engineering of Plants, an Agricultural Perspective, A. Cashmore, Plenum, NY (1983), pages 29-38 ;  Coruzzi, G. et al., The Journal of Biological Chemistry, 258:1399 (1983 ), and  Dunsmuir, P. et al., Journal of Molecular and Applied Genetics, 2:285 (1983 )). 
     
    
    [0189]
     Plasmid vectors comprising the instant chimeric genes can then be constructed. The choice of plasmid vector depends upon the method that will be used to transform host plants. The skilled artisan is well aware of the genetic elements that must be present on the plasmid vector in order to successfully transform, select and propagate host cells containing the chimeric gene. The skilled artisan will also recognize that different independent transformation events will result in different levels and patterns of expression ( Jones et al., EMBO J., 4:2411-2418 (1985 );  De Almeida et al., Mol. Gen. Genetics, 218:78-86 (1989 )). Thus, multiple events must be screened in order to obtain lines displaying the desired expression level and pattern. Such screening may be accomplished by Southern analysis of DNA blots ( Southern, J. Mol. Biol., 98:503 (1975 )). Northern analysis of mRNA expression ( Kroczek, J. Chromatogr. Biomed. Appl., 618 (1-2):133-145 (1993 )), Western analysis of protein expression, or phenotypic analysis. 
     
    
    [0190]
     For some applications it will be useful to direct the instant proteins to different cellular compartments. It is thus envisioned that the chimeric genes described above may be further supplemented by altering the coding sequences to encode enzymes with appropriate intracellular targeting sequences such as transit sequences ( Keegstra, K., Cell, 56:247-253 (1989 )), signal sequences or sequences encoding endoplasmic reticulum localization ( Chrispeels, J.J., Ann. Rev. Plant Phys. Plant Mol. Biol., 42:21-53 (1991 )), or nuclear localization signals ( Raikhel, N., Plant Phys., 100:1627-1632 (1992 )) added and/or with targeting sequences that are already present removed. While the references cited give examples of each of these, the list is not exhaustive and more targeting signals of utility may be discovered in the future that are useful in the invention. 
   
 Protein Engineering 
 
   
    
    [0191]
     It is contemplated that the present nucleotides may be used to produce gene products having enhanced or altered activity. Various methods are known for mutating a native gene sequence to produce a gene product with altered or enhanced activity including but not limited to error-prone PCR ( Melnikov et al., Nucleic Acids Research, Vol. 27(4):1056-1062 (1999 )); site-directed mutagenesis ( Coombs et al., Proteins, 259-311, Editor(s): Angeletti, Ruth Hogue. Publisher: Academic, San Diego, CA (1998 )) and "gene shuffling" (   US 5,605,793   ;    US 5,811,238   ;    US 5,830,721   ;    US 5,837,458   ; and    US 2004 014085   . 
     
    
    [0192]
     The method of gene shuffling is particularly attractive due to its facile implementation, and high rate of mutagenesis and ease of screening. The process of gene shuffling involves the restriction endonuclease cleavage of a gene of interest into fragments of specific size in the presence of additional populations of DNA regions of both similarity to or difference to the gene of interest. This pool of fragments will then be denatured and reannealed to create a mutated gene. The mutated gene is then screened for altered activity. 
     
    
    [0193]
     The instant microbial sequences of the present invention may be mutated and screened for altered or enhanced activity by this method. The sequences should be double stranded and can be of various  lengths ranging form  50 bp to 10 kb. The sequences may be randomly digested into fragments ranging from about 10 bp to 1000 bp, using restriction endonucleases well known in the art (Maniatis,  supra ). In addition to the instant microbial sequences, populations of fragments that are hybridizable to all or portions of the microbial sequence may be added. Similarly, a population of fragments that are not hybridizable to the instant sequence may also be added. Typically, these additional fragment populations are added in about 10 to 20 fold excess by weight as compared to the total nucleic acid. Normally if this process is followed, the number of different specific nucleic acid fragments in the mixture will be about 100 to about 1000. The mixed population of random nucleic acid fragments are denatured to form single-stranded nucleic acid fragments and then reannealed. Only those single-stranded nucleic acid fragments having regions of homology with other single-stranded nucleic acid fragments will reanneal. The random nucleic acid fragments may be denatured by heating. One skilled in the art could determine the conditions necessary to completely denature the double stranded nucleic acid. Preferably the temperature is from 80° C to 100° C. The nucleic acid fragments may be reannealed by cooling. Preferably the temperature is from 20° C to 75° C. Renaturation can be accelerated by the addition of polyethylene glycol ("PEG") or salt. A suitable salt concentration may range from 0 mM to 200 mM. The annealed nucleic acid fragments are then incubated in the presence of a nucleic acid polymerase and dNTP's (i.e., dATP, dCTP, dGTP, and dTTP). The nucleic acid polymerase may be the Klenow fragment, the Taq polymerase or any other DNA polymerase known in the art. The polymerase may be added to the random nucleic acid fragments prior to annealing, simultaneously with annealing or after annealing. The cycle of denaturation, renaturation and incubation in the presence of polymerase is repeated for a desired number of times. Preferably, the cycle is repeated from 2 to 50 times, more preferably the sequence is repeated from 10 to 40 times. The resulting nucleic acid is a larger double-stranded polynucleotide ranging from about 50 bp to about 100 kb and may be screened for expression and altered activity by standard cloning and expression protocol (Maniatis,  supra ). 
     
    
    [0194]
     Furthermore, a hybrid protein can be assembled by fusion of functional domains using the gene shuffling (exon shuffling) method ( Nixon et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A, 94:1069-1073 (1997 )). The functional domain of the instant gene can be combined with the functional domain of other genes to create novel enzymes with desired catalytic function. A hybrid enzyme may be constructed using PCR overlap extension method and cloned into the various expression vectors using the techniques well known to those skilled in art. 
   
 Genes Involved in Carotenoid Production. 
 
   
    
    [0195]
     The enzyme pathway involved in the biosynthesis of carotenoids can be conveniently viewed in two parts, the upper isoprenoid pathway providing for the conversion of pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, which provides for the synthesis of phytoene and all subsequently produced carotenoids. The upper pathway is ubiquitous in many non-carotenogenic microorganisms and in these cases it will only be necessary to introduce genes that comprise the lower pathway for the biosynthesis of the desired carotenoid. The key division between the two pathways concerns the synthesis of farnesyl pyrophosphate. Where FPP is naturally present, only elements of the lower carotenoid pathway will be needed. However, it will be appreciated that for the lower pathway carotenoid genes to be effective in the production of carotenoids, it will be necessary for the host cell to have suitable levels of FPP within the cell. Where FPP synthesis is not provided by the host cell, it will be necessary to introduce the genes necessary for the production of FPP. Each of these pathways will be discussed below in detail. 
   
 The Upper Isoprenoid Pathway 
 
   
    
    [0196]
     Isoprenoid biosynthesis occurs through either of two pathways, generating the common C5 isoprene sub-unit, isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP). First, IPP may be synthesized through the well-known acetate/mevalonate pathway. However, recent studies have demonstrated that the .mevalonate-dependent pathway does not operate in all living organisms. An alternate mevalonate-independent pathway for IPP biosynthesis has been characterized in bacteria and in green algae and higher plants ( Horbach et al., FEMS Microbiol. Lett., 111:135-140 (1993 );  Rohmer et al., Biochem., 295:517-524 (1993 );  Schwender et al., Biochem., 316:73-80 (1996 ); and  Eisenreich et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 93:6431-6436 (1996 )). 
     
    
    [0197]
     Many steps in the mevalonate-independent isoprenoid pathway are known. For example, the initial steps of the alternate pathway leading to the production of IPP have been studied in  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  by  Cole et al. (Nature, 393:537-544 (1998 )). The first step of the pathway involves the condensation of two 3-carbon molecules (pyruvate and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate) to yield a 5-carbon compound known as D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate. This reaction occurs by the DXS enzyme, encoded by the dxs gene. Next, the isomerization and reduction of D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate yields 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate. One of the enzymes involved in the isomerization and reduction process is D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR), encoded by the gene  dxr  ( ispC ). 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate is subsequently converted into 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol in a CTP-dependent reaction by the enzyme encoded by the non-annotated gene  ygbP.  Recently, however, the  ygbP  gene was renamed as  ispD  as a part of the  isp  gene cluster (SwissProtein Accession #Q46893). 
     
    
    [0198]
     Next, the 2 nd  position hydroxy group of 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol can be phosphorylated in an ATP-dependent reaction by the enzyme encoded by the  ychB  gene. YchB phosphorylates 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol, resulting in 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2-phosphate. The  ychB  gene was renamed as  ispE , also as a part of the  isp  gene cluster (SwissProtein Accession #P24209). YgbB converts 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2-phosphate to 2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate in a CTP-dependent manner. This gene has also been recently renamed, and belongs to the  isp  gene cluster. Specifically, the new name for the  ygbB  gene is  ispF  (SwissProtein Accession #P36663). 
     
    
    [0199]
     The enzymes encoded by the  gcpE  ( ispG ) and  lytB  ( ispH ) genes (and perhaps others) are thought to participate in the reactions leading to formation of isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) and dimethylallyl pyrophosphate (DMAPP). IPP may be isomerized to DMAPP via IPP isomerase, encoded by the  idi  gene. However, this enzyme is not essential for survival and may be absent in some bacteria using 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway. Recent evidence suggests that the MEP pathway branches before IPP and separately produces IPP and DMAPP via the  lytB  gene product. A  lytB  knockout mutation is lethal in  E. coli  except in media supplemented with both IPP and DMAPP. 
     
    
    [0200]
     The synthesis of FPP occurs via the isomerization of IPP to dimethylallyl pyrophosphate. This reaction is followed by a sequence of two prenyltransferase reactions catalyzed by  ispA , leading to the creation of geranyl pyrophosphate (GPP; a 10-carbon molecule) and farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP; a 15-carbon molecule). 
     
    
    [0201]
     Genes encoding elements of the upper pathway are known from a variety of plant, animal, and bacterial sources, as shown in Table 1.
     Table 1           Sources of Genes Encoding the Upper Isoprenoid Pathway             Gene           GenBank Accession Number and Source Organism                 dxs    (D-1-deoxyxylulose 5-phosphate synthase)   AF035440,  Escherichia coli         Y18874,  Synechococcus  PCC6301       AB026631,  Streptomyces sp.  CL190       AB042821,  Streptomyces griseolosporeus         AF111814,  Plasmodium falciparum         AF143812,  Lycopersicon esculentum         AJ279019,  Narcissus pseudonarcissus         AJ291721,  Nicotiana tabacum             dxr  ( ispC )  (1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase)   AB013300,  Escherichia coli         AB049187,  Streptomyces griseolosporeus         AF111813,  Plasmodium falciparum         AF116825,  Mentha  x piperita       AF148852,  Arabidopsis thaliana         AF182287,  Artemisia annua         AF250235,  Catharanthus roseus         AF282879,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa         AJ242588,  Arabidopsis thaliana         AJ250714,  Zymomonas mobilis  strain ZM4       AJ292312,  Klebsiella pneumoniae,         AJ297566,  Zea mays             ygbP  ( ispD )  (2-C- methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate cytidylyltransferase)   AB037876,  Arabidopsis thaliana         AF109075,  Clostridium diflicile         AF230736,  Escherichia coli         AF230737,  Arabidopsis thaliana             ychB  ( ispE )  (4-diphosphocytidyl -2-C-methyl-D-erythritol kinase)   A216300,  Escherichia coli         AF263101,  Lycopersicon esculentum         AF288615,  Arabidopsis thaliana             ygbB  ( ispF )  (2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase)   AB038256,  Escherichia coli mecs  gene       AF230738,  Escherichia coli         AF250236,  Catharanthus roseus  (MECS)       AF279661,  Plasmodium falciparum         AF321531,  Arabidopsis thaliana             gcpE  ( ispG )  (1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate synthase)   O67496,  Aquifex aeolicus         P54482,  Bacillus subfilis         Q9pky3,  Chlamydia muridarum         Q9Z8H0,  Chlamydophila pneumoniae         084060,  Chlamydia trachomatis         P27433,  Escherichia coli         P44667,  Haemophilus influenzae         Q9ZLL0,  Helicobacter pylori J99         033350,  Mycobacterium tuberculosis         S77159,  Synechocystis  sp.       Q9WZZ3,  Thermotoga maritima         083460,  Treponema pallidum         Q9JZ40,  Neisseria meningitidis         Q9PPM1,  Campylobacter jejuni         Q9RXC9,  Deinococcus radiodurans         AAG07190,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa         Q9KTX1,  Vibrio cholerae             lytB  ( ispH )     AF027189,  Acinetobacter sp.  BD413           AF098521,  Burkholderia pseudomallei             AF291696,  Streptococcus pneumoniae             AF323927,  Plasmodium falciparum  gene           M87645,  Bacillus subtillis             U38915,  Synechocystis sp.             X89371,  C. jejunisp  067496           IspA    (FPP synthase)   AB003187,  Micrococcus luteus             AB016094,  Synechococcus elongatus             AB021747,  Oryza sativa FPPS1  gene for farnesyl diphosphate synthase           AB028044,  Rhodobacter sphaeroides             AB028046,  Rhodobacter capsulatus             AB028047,  Rhodovulum sulfidophilum             AF112881 and AF136602,  Artemisia annua             AF384040,  Mentha  x piperita           D00694,  Escherichia coli             D13293,  B. stearothermophilus             D85317,  Oryza sativa             X75789,  A. thaliana             Y12072,  G. arboreum             Z49786,  H. brasiliensis             U80605,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase precursor ( FPS1 ) mRNA, complete cds           X76026,  K. lactis FPS  gene for farnesyl diphosphate synthetase, QCR8 gene for bc1 complex, subunit VIII           X82542, P.argentatum mRNA for farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS1)           X82543,  P. argentatum  mRNA for farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS2).           BC010004,  Homo sapiens , farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase), clone MGC 15352 IMAGE, 4132071, mRNA, complete cds           AF234168,  Dictyostelium discoideum  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (Dfps)           L46349,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase ( FPS2 ) mRNA, complete cds           L46350,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase ( FPS2 ) gene, complete cds           L46367,  Arabidopsis thaliana  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS1) gene, alternative products, complete cds           M89945, Rat farnesyl diphosphate synthase gene, exons 1-8           NM_002004,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase) ( FDPS ), mRNA           U36376,  Artemisia annua  farnesyl diphosphate synthase ( fps1 ) mRNA, complete cds           XM_001352,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase) ( FDPS ), mRNA           XM_034497,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase) ( FDPS ), mRNA           XM_034498,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesy) pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase) ( FDPS ), mRNA           XM_034499,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase) ( FDPS ) ,  mRNA           XM_0345002,  Homo sapiens  farnesyl diphosphate synthase (farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase, dimethylallyltranstransferase, geranyltranstransferase) ( FDPS ) ,  mRNA           
   
 The Lower Carotenoid Biosynthetic Pathway 
 
   
    
    [0202]
     The division between the upper isoprenoid pathway and the lower carotenoid pathway is somewhat subjective. Because FPP synthesis is common in both carotenogenic and non-carotenogenic bacteria, the first step in the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is considered to begin with the prenyltransferase reaction converting farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) to geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP). The gene  crtE , encoding GGPP synthetase, is responsible for this prenyltransferase reaction which adds IPP to FPP to produce the 20-carbon molecule GGPP. A condensation reaction of two molecules of GGPP occurs to form phytoene (PPPP), the first 40-carbon molecule of the lower carotenoid biosynthesis pathway: This enzymatic reaction is catalyzed by  crtB,  encoding phytoene synthase. 
     
    
    [0203]
     Lycopene is produced from phytoene through four sequential dehydrogenation reactions by the removal of eight atoms of hydrogen, catalyzed by the gene  crtl  (encoding phytoene desaturase). Intermediaries in this reaction are phytofluene, zeta-carotene, and neurosporene. 
     
    
    [0204]
     Lycopene cyclase ( crtY ) converts lycopene to β-carotene. However, additional genes may be used to create a variety of other carotenoids. For example, β-carotene is converted to zeaxanthin via a hydroxylation reaction resulting from the activity of β-carotene hydroxylase (encoded by the  crtZ  gene). β-cryptoxanthin is an intermediate in this reaction. 
     
    
    [0205]
     β-carotene can be converted to canthaxanthin by β-carotene ketolase encoded by either the  crfW ,  bkt  or  crtO  genes. Echinenone is typically an intermediate in this reaction. Canthaxanthin can then be converted to astaxanthin by β-carotene hydroxylase encoded by the  crtZ  gene. Adonbirubrin is an intermediate in this reaction. 
     
    
    [0206]
     Zeaxanthin can be converted to zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside. This reaction is catalyzed by zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase ( crtX ). 
     
    
    [0207]
     Genes encoding elements of the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway are known from a variety of plant, animal, and bacterial sources, as shown in Table 2.
     Table 2           Sources of Genes Encoding the Lower Carotenoid Biosynthetic Pathway             Gene           GenBank Accession Number and Source Organism                 crtE  (GGPP Synthase)     AB000835,  Arabidopsis thaliana         AB016043 and AB019036,  Homo sapiens             AB016044,  Mus musculus             AB027705 and AB027706,  Daucus carota             AB034249,  Croton sublyratus             AB034250,  Scoparia dulcis             AF020041,  Helianthus annuus             AF049658,  Drosophila melanogaster  signal recognition particle 19kDa protein ( srp19 ) gene,partial sequence; and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( quemao ) gene,complete cds           AF049659,  Drosophila melanogaster  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase mRNA, complete cds           AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens             AF279807,  Penicillium paxilli  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( ggs1 ) gene, complete           AF279808,  Penicillium paxilli  dimethylallyl tryptophan synthase ( paxD ) gene, partial cds;and cytochrome P450 monooxygenase ( paxQ ), cytochrome P450 monooxygenase ( paxP ),PaxC ( paxC ), monooxygenase ( paxM ), geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( paxG ),PaxU ( paxU ), and metabolite transporter ( paxT ) genes, complete cds           AJ010302,  Rhodobacter sphaeroides             AJ133724,  Mycobacterium aurum             AJ276129,  Mucor circinelloides f. lusitanicus carG  gene for geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, exons 1-6           D85029,  Arabidopsis thaliana  mRNA for geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, partial cds           L25813,  Arabidopsis thaliana             L37405,  Streptomyces griseus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( crtB ), phytoene desaturase ( crtE ) and phytoene synthase ( crtI ) genes, complete cds           U15778,  Lupinus albus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( ggps1 ) mRNA, complete cds           U44876,  Arabidopsis thaliana  pregeranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( GGPS2 ) mRNA, complete cds           X92893,  C. roseus             X95596,  S .  griseus             X98795,  S .  alba             Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii             crtX    (Zeaxanthin glucosylase)   D90087,  E .  uredovora         M87280 and M90698,  Pantoea agglomerans             crtY    (Lycopene-β-cyclase)   AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens             AF152246,  Citrus  x paradisi           AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp.  ORS278           AF272737,  Streptomyces griseus  strain IF013350           AJ133724,  Mycobacterium aurum             AJ250827,  Rhizomucor circinelloides  f.  lusitanicus carRP  gene for lycopene cyclase/phytoene synthase, exons 1-2           AJ276965,  Phycomyces blakesleeanus carRA  gene for phytoene synthase/lycopene cyclase, exons 1-2           D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum             D83513,  Erythrobacter longus             L40176,  Arabidopsis thaliana  lycopene cyclase ( LYC ) mRNA, complete cds           M87280,  Pantoea agglomerans             U50738,  Arabodopsis thaliana  lycopene epsilon cyclase mRNA, complete cds           U50739,  Arabidosis thaliana  lycopene β cyclase mRNA, complete cds           U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588           X74599,  Synechococcus sp. Icy  gene for lycopene cyclase           X81787,  N. tabacum CrtL-1  gene encoding lycopene cyclase           X86221,  C. annuum             X86452,  L. esculentum  mRNA for lycopene β-cyclase           X95596,  S. griseus             X98796,  N. pseudonarcissus             crtI    (Phytoene desaturase)   AB046992,  Citrus unshiu CitPDS1  mRNA for phytoene desaturase, complete cds           AF039585,  Zea mays  phytoene desaturase ( pds1 ) gene promoter region and exon 1           AF049356,  Oryza sativa  phytoene desaturase precursor (Pds) mRNA, complete cds           AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens             AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp:  ORS278           AF251014,  Tagetes erecta             AF364515,  Citrus  x paradisi           D58420,  Agrobacferium aurantiacum             D83514,  Erythrobacter longus             L16237,  Arabidopsis thaliana             L37405,  Streptomyces griseus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( crtB ), phytoene desaturase ( crtE ) and phytoene synthase ( crtI ) genes, complete cds           L39266,  Zea mays  phytoene desaturase ( Pds ) mRNA, complete cds           M64704, Soybean phytoene desaturase           M88683,  Lycopersicon esculentum  phytoene desaturase ( pds ) mRNA, complete cds           S71770, carotenoid gene cluster           U37285,  Zea mays             U46919,  Solanum lycopersicum  phytoene desaturase (Pds) gene, partial cds           U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588           X55289,  Synechococcus pds  gene for phytoene desaturase           X59948,  L. esculentum             X62574,  Synechocystis sp. pds  gene for phytoene desaturase           X68058,  C. annuum pds1  mRNA for phytoene desaturase           X71023,  Lycopersicon esculentum pds  gene for phytoene desaturase           X78271,  L. esculentum  (Ailsa Craig) PDS gene           X78434,  P. blakesleeanus  (NRRL1555) carB gene           X78815,  N. pseudonarcissus             X86783,  H. pluvialis             Y14807,  Dunaliella bardawil             Y15007,  Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous             Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii             Y15114,  Anabaena  PCC7210  crtP  gene           Z11165,  R. capsulatus             crtB    (Phytoene synthase)   AB001284,  Spirulina platensis         AB032797,  Daucus carota PSY  mRNA for phytoene synthase, complete cds           AB034704,  Rubrivivax gelatinosus             AB037975,  Citrus unshiu             AF009954,  Arabidopsis thaliana  phytoene synthase ( PSY ) gene, complete cds           AF139916,  Brevibacterium linens             AF152892,  Citrus  x paradisi           AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp.  ORS278           AF220218,  Citrus unshiu  phytoene synthase ( Psy1 ) mRNA, complete cds           AJ010302,  Rhodobacter             AJ133724,  Mycobacterium aurum             AJ278287,  Phycomyces blakesleeanus carRA  gene for lycopene cyclase/phytoene synthase,           AJ304825,  Helianthus annuus  mRNA for phytoene synthase ( psy  gene)           AJ308385,  Helianthus annuus  mRNA for phytoene synthase ( psy  gene)           D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum             L23424,  Lycopersicon esculentum  phytoene synthase ( PSY2 ) mRNA, complete cds           L25812,  Arabidopsis thaliana             L37405,  Streptomyces griseus  geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase ( crtB ), phytoene desaturase           ( crtE ) and phytoene synthase ( crtI ) genes, complete cds           M38424,  Panfoea agglomerans  phytoene synthase ( crtE ) gene, complete cds           M87280,  Pantoea agglomerans             S71770, Carotenoid gene cluster           U32636,  Zea mays  phytoene synthase ( Y1 ) gene, complete cds           U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588           U87626,  Rubrivivax gelatinosus             U91900,  Dunaliella bardawil             X52291,  Rhodobacter capsulatus             X60441,  L. esculentum GTom5  gene for phytoene synthase           X63873,  Synechococcus  PCC7942  pys  gene for phytoene synthase           X68017,  C. annuum psy1  mRNA for phytoene synthase           X69172,  Synechocystis sp. pys  gene for phytoene synthase,           X78814,  N. pseudonarcissus             crtZ    (β-carotene hydroxylase)   D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum         D58422,  Alcaligenes sp.         D90087,  E. uredovora         M87280,  Pantoea agglomerans         U62808,  Flavobacterium  ATCC21588       Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii             crtW    (β-carotene ketolase)   AF218415,  Bradyrhizobium sp.  ORS278       D45881,  Haematococcus pluvialis         D58420,  Agrobacterium aurantiacum         D58422,  Alcaligenes sp.         X86782,  H. pluvialis         Y15112,  Paracoccus marcusii             
     
    
    [0208]
     Preferred sources of the non-crtZ carotenoid genes are from  Pantoea stewartii  (ATCC 8199;    WO 02/079395   ),  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (   US 20040253663   ),  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 (   US 20040268439   ),  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (   US 2005022731311   ), and  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (   US 20050227311   ). The preferred source of crfZ gene for the production of hydroxylated carotenoids using the present method is from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (SEQ ID NO: 16). Methods using  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 (SEQ ID NO: 19) are disclosed. 
     
    
    [0209]
     By using various combinations of the genes presented in Table 2 and the preferred  crt Z genes of the present invention, numerous different carotenoids and carotenoid derivatives could be made using the methods of the present invention, provided that sufficient sources of FPP are available in the host organism. For example, the gene cluster  crtEXYIB  enables the production of β-carotene. Addition of the  crtZ  to  crtEXYIB  enables the production of zeaxanthin. 
   
 EXAMPLES 
 
   
    
    [0210]
     The present invention is further defined in the following Examples. It should be understood that these Examples, while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only. 
   
 GENERAL METHODS 
 
   
    
    [0211]
     Standard recombinant DNA and molecular cloning techniques used in the Examples are well known in the art and are described by Maniatis ( supra ) and by  T. J. Silhavy, M. L. Bennan, and L. W. Enquist, Experiments with Gene Fusions, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1984 ) and by  Ausubel, F. M. et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, pub. by Greene Publishing Assoc, and Wiley-Interscience (1987 ). 
     
    
    [0212]
     Materials and methods suitable for the maintenance and growth of bacterial cultures are well known in the art. Techniques suitable for use in the following examples may be found as set out in  Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology (Phillipp Gerhardt, R. G. E. Murray, Ralph N. Costilow, Eugene W. Nester, Willis A. Wood, Noel R. Krieg and G. Briggs Phillips, eds), American Society for Microbiology, Washington, DC. (1994 )), or in Brock ( supra ) or Deshpande ( supra ). All reagents, restriction enzymes and materials used for the growth and maintenance of bacterial cells were obtained from Aldrich Chemicals (Milwaukee, WI), DIFCO Laboratories/BD Diagnostics (Sparks, MD), Promega (Madison, WI), New England Biolabs (Beverly, MA), GIBCO/BRL Life Technologies (Carlsbad, CA), or Sigma Chemical Company (St. Louis, MO) unless otherwise specified. 
     
    
    [0213]
     Sequence editing and alignment was performed using Sequencher program. Search of sequences in the nr databases was performed with BLASTP using BLOSUM62 matrix. Pairwise sequence alignments of nucleotide and amino acid sequences were performed using AlignX in Vector NTI. In any case where program parameters were not prompted for, in these or any other programs, default values were used. 
     
    
    [0214]
     The meaning of abbreviations is as follows: "h" means hour(s), "min" means minute(s), "sec" means second(s), "d" means day(s), "mL" means milliliters, "µL" mean microliters, "L" means liters, "g" means grams, "mg" means milligrams, "µg" means micrograms, and "ppm" means parts per million. 
   
 EXAMPLE 1 
 
 
 Isolation and Characterization of Carotenoid-Producing Bacterial Strains 
 
   
    
    [0215]
     This example describes isolation of two bacterial strains  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 and  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 and preliminary analysis of their native carotenoids. 
   
 Strain isolation and typing 
 
   
    
    [0216]
     To isolate novel carotenoid producing bacterial strains, pigmented microbes were isolated from a collection of environmental samples. Approximately 1 g of surface soil from a yard in Wilmington, Delaware was resuspended in 10 mL of tap water. A 10-µL loopful of the water was streaked onto Luria-Broth (LB) plates and the plates were incubated at 30°C. Pigmented bacteria with diverse colony appearances were pickled and streaked twice to homogeneity on LB plates and incubated at 30°C. From these colonies, one which formed orange-pink colonies was designated as strain DC263 (   US 20050227311   ). Strain DC18 was isolated from a Pennsylvania stream. Serial dilutions (10 -2 , 10 -4  and 10 -6 ) of the aqueous sample were plated onto  large 245x245 mm  15 % agar plates with basal medium enriched with tryptone and yeast. The components of the basal medium (per liter) were: NH 4 Cl 0.8 g , KH 2 PO 4  0.5 g, MgCl 2  6H 2 0 0.2 g, CaCl 2  2H 2 0 0.1g, NaNO 3  1.3 g, and Na 2 SO 4  0.5 g. The components of the stock solution 1 were (per liter): nitrilotriacetic acid 12.8 g, FeCl 2 .4H 2 O 0.3 g, CuCl 2 .2H 2 O 0.0254 g, MnCl 2 .4H 2 O 0.1g, CoCl 2 .6 H 2 O 0.312 g, ZnCl 2  0.1g, H 3 BO 3  8.01 g, Na 2 MoO 4 .2H 2 O 0.01g, and NiCl 2 .6H 2 O 0.184g. Ten milliliters of stock solution 1 was added per 1 litre of the basal medium. The medium was supplemented with tryptone at concentration 10 g/L and yeast extract 5 g/L. Media pH was adjusted to 7. The plates were incubated at room temperature and single colonies were streaked twice onto the same plates. One strain was selected which formed orange colonies and was designated as strain DC18 (   US 20050227311   ). 
     
    
    [0217]
     16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed with DC263 and DC18. Specifically, the 16S rRNA gene of the strain was amplified by PCR using primers HK12: 5'-GAGTTTGATCCTGGCTCAG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 1) and JCR14: 5'- ACGGGCGGTGTGTAC -3' (SEQ ID NO: 2). The amplified 16S rRNA genes were purified using a QIAquick PCR Purification Kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and sequenced on an automated ABI sequencer (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). The sequencing reactions were initiated with primers HK12, JCR14, and JCR15: 5'-GCCAGCAGCCGCGGTA-3' (SEQ ID NO: 3). The assembled 1268 bp 16S rRNA gene sequence (SEQ ID NO: 4) of DC263 and1291 bp 16S rRNA gene sequence (SEQ ID NO: 5) of DC18 were used as the query sequence for a BLASTN search ( Altschul et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 25:3389-3402(19997 )) against GenBank®. The 16S rRNA gene sequence of DC263 showed homology to those of  Brevundimonas  strains, with the top hit as 99% identical to  Brevundimonas vesicularis.  This strain was thus designated as  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263. The 16S rRNA gene sequence of DC18 showed homology to those of  Sphingomonas  strains, with the top hit as 98% identical to  Sphingomonas melonis.  This strain was thus designated as  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18. 
   
 Carotenoid analysis 
 
   
    
    [0218]
       Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 was grown In 100 mL LB.  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 was grown in 100 mL of the same medium as described for the strain isolation. Both strains were grown at 30°C shaking overnight. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation at 4000 g for 15 min, and the cell pellets were extracted with 10 mL acetone. The extraction was dried under nitrogen and redissolved in 1-2 mL of acetone. The extraction was filtered with an Acrodisc® CR25 mm syringe filter (Pall Corporation, Ann Arbor, MI). It was then concentrated in 0.1  mL  10% acetone+90% acetonitrile for HPLC analysis using an Agilent Series 1100 LC/MSD SI (Agilent, Foster City, CA). 
     
    
    [0219]
     Samples (20 µl) were loaded onto a 150 mm X 4.6 mm ZORBAX C18 (3.5 µm particles) column (Agilent Technologies, Inc.). The column temperature was kept at 40 °C. The flow rate was 1 mL/min, while the solvent running program used was
       0 - 2 min: 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B;   2 - 10 min: linear gradient from 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B to 60% Buffer A and 40% Buffer B;   10 - 12 min: linear gradient from 60% Buffer A and 40% Buffer B to 50% Buffer A and 50% Buffer B;   12 -18 min: 50% Buffer A and 50% Buffer B; and,   18 - 20 min: 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B.   
   
    
    [0220]
     Buffer A was 95% acetonitrile and 5% dH 2 O; Buffer B was 100% tetrahydrofuran. 
     
    
    [0221]
       Figure 2  shows the HPLC profiles of the carotenoids produced in DC263 and DC18, respectively. LC-MS analyses determined that the molecular weight of the major carotenoid in DC263 to be 628, and the molecular weight of the major carotenoid in DC18 to be 614. Based on the HPLC elution times, the absorption spectra, and the molecular weight, the major carotenoid in DC263 was predicted to be tetrahydroxy-β, β'-caroten-4, 4'-dione. The major carotenoid in DC18 was predicted to be tetrahydroxy-β, β'-caroten-4-one. The properties we determined for the major carotenoid in DC263 and DC18 were consistent with those reported in the literature for these carotenoids ( Yokoyama et al., Biosci. Biotech. Biochem., 60:200-203 (1996 );  Kleinig et al, Helvetica Chimica Acta, 60:254-258 (1977 )). 
   
 EXAMPLE 2 
 
 
 Construction of β-Carotene Synthesis Plasmids 
 
   
    
    [0222]
     Two β-carotene synthesis plasmids were used in this application. Plasmid pDCQ329 was used as a reporter plasmid for screening of small insert library to clone the hydroxylase gene(s). It contained the  crtEXYIB  gene cluster isolated from a carotenoid-producing strain DC260 (   US 2004268439   ). Isolation of the carotenoid gene cluster from  Enterobacteriaceae  strain DC260 and construction of plasmid pDCQ329 were previously described in    US 2004268439   . 
     
    
    [0223]
     Plasmid pDCQ330 was used to confirm the carotenoid hydroxylase activity of the novel genes. It contained the  crtEidiYlB  gene cluster isolated from  P. agglomerans  DC404. Isolation of the carotenoid gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  strain DC404 and construction of plasmid pDCQ330 were previously described in    US 2004253663   . 
     
    
    [0224]
     DC260 and DC404 were carotenoid-producing strains isolated from the environment in Wilmington, Delaware.  Enterobacteriaceae  strain DC260 was isolated from the surface of a brick on a west-facing wall of a residential house.  Pantoea agglomerans  strain DC404 was isolated from soil in a residential vegetable garden. Samples were washed and a 10-µL loopful of the resuspension was streaked onto Luria-Broth (LB) plates and the plates were incubated at 30°C. Pigmented bacteria with diverse colony appearances were picked and streaked twice to homogeneity on LB plates and incubated at 30°C. From these colonies, DC260 and DC404 were isolated which formed pale yellow smooth translucent colonies. 
     
    
    [0225]
     Cosmid library was constructed for DC260 and DC404 to clone β-carotene synthesis gene clusters using the pWEB cosmid cloning kit from Epicentre (Madison, WI) following the manufacturer's instructions. Genomic DNA was sheared by passing it through a syringe needle. The sheared DNA was end-repaired and size-selected on low-melting-point agarose by comparison with a 40 kB standard. DNA fragments approximately 40 kB in size were purified and ligated into the blunt-ended cloning-ready pWEB cosmid vector. The library was packaged using ultrahigh efficiency MaxPlax™ Lambda Packaging Extracts (Epicentre Technologies, Madison, WI), and plated on EPI100  E.coli  cells. Two yellow colonies were identified from each of the cosmid libraries and referred to herein as pWEB-260 (containing the  crtEXYIBZ  gene cluster; SEQ ID NO: 6) and pWEB-404. 
     
    
    [0226]
     The carotenoid gene clusters on the two cosmids were sequenced and subcloned onto pBHR1 vector (MoBiTec, Goettingen, Germany). Primers pWEB260F: 5'- GAATTCACCAACCATGGATAGCCATTATGAC - 3' (SEQ ID NO: 7) and pWEB260R: 5'-GAATTCAACGAGGACGCTGCCACAGA -3' (SEQ ID NO: 8) were used to amplify a fragment containing the  crtEXYIB  genes from pWEB-260. Primers pWEB404F: 5'-GAATTCACTAGTCGAGACGCCGGGTACCAACCAT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 9) and pWEB404R: 5'-GAATTCTAGCGCGGGCGCTGCCAGA-3'(SEQ ID NO: 10) were used to amplify a fragment containing the  crtEidiYIB  genes (SEQ ID NO: 11) from pWEB-404.  Pfu  Turbo polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) was used for the PCR with the following thermocycler conditions: 92°C (5 min); 94°C (1 min), 60°C (1 min), 72°C (9 min) for 25 cycles; and 72°C (10 min).  Taq  polymerase (Perkin Elmer) was used in a ten minute 72°C reaction to add additional 3' adenosine nucleotide to the fragment for TOPO® cloning into pTrcHis2-TOPO® (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Following transformation to  E. coli  TOP10 cells, several colonies appeared yellow in color, indicating that they were producing a carotenoid compound. The gene cluster was then subcloned into the broad host range vector pBHR1 and electroporated into    E     .  coli        10G cells (Lucigen, Middletown, WI). The transformants containing the respective resulting plasmid, either pDCQ329 or pDCQ330, were selected on LB medium containing 50 µg/mL kanamycin. They were confirmed by restriction digests and shown to produce β-carotene. 
   
 EXAMPLE 3 
 
 
 Isolation of Carotenoid Ketolase Genes from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 and  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 
 
   
    
    [0227]
     This example describes construction of the small insert library from the bacterial strains  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 and  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 and cloning of the ketolase gene from each strain (see    US 20050227311   ). 
   
 (Library construction and screening 
 
   
    
    [0228]
     Cells of DC263 and DC18 were grown as described in Example 1. Genomic DNA was prepared from the cells using the Qiagen genomic DNA preparation kits. The small insert library of strain DC263 and DC18 was prepared by random shearing method. Genomic DNA of DC263 and DC18 was sheared by passing through a 291/2 G insulin syringe (Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, NJ) about 300 times and separated on a 0.8% agarose gel. The 4-6 kb fraction was excised from the gel and extracted using Qiagen MinElute™ Gel-Extraction kit (Qiagen). The ends of the extracted DNA were repaired using Lucigen DNATerminator® Repair kit. The repaired DNA inserts were ligated to pEZseq™ vector using pEZSeq™ Blunt Cloning kit (Lucigen). The ligation mixture was electroporated into freshly prepared competent cells of    E. coli    10G containing a β-carotene producing plasmid pDCQ329 (   US 20040268439   ). Transformants were plated on LB plates with 100 µg/mL ampicillin and 50 µg/mL kanamycin. Approximately 50,000 to 100,000 transformants were obtained for each library. Several orange colonies were identified among the tens of thousands of yellow colonies for each library. These positive clones were identified as possibly containing a ketolase gene that converted β-carotene to ketocarotenoids. 
   
 Isolation of Carotenoid Ketolase Genes 
 
   
    
    [0229]
     The pEZ-based plasmid was separated from the β-carotene reporter plasmid by selecting for ampicillin resistant and kanamycin sensitive clones. The insert on the pEZ-based plasmid was sequenced by random transposon insertion using the EZ-TN<TET-1> kit (Epicentre, Madison, WI) and/or primer walking. The sequences were assembles with the Sequencher ™  program (Gene Codes Corp., Ann Arbor, MI). Genes encoding CrtW ketolases were identified by conducting BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool;  Altschul, S. F., et al., J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410 (1993 )) searches for similarity to sequences contained in the BLAST "nr" database (comprising all non-redundant GenBank® CDS translations, sequences derived from the 3-dimensional structure Brookhaven Protein Data Bank, the SWISS-PROT protein sequence database, EMBL, and DDBJ databases). The coding sequences of the  crtW  genes from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 and  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 were listed as SEQ ID NO: 12 and SEQ ID NO: 13, respectively. 
   
 EXAMPLE 4 
 
 
 Isolation of Carotenoid Hydroxylase Genes 
 
   
    
    [0230]
     This example describes isolation of carotenoid hydroxylase genes from two bacterial strains,  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 and  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 (previously named  Sphingomonas aromaticivorans).   
   
 Isolation of carotenoid hydroxylase gene from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 
 
   
    
    [0231]
     The pEZ-based plasmid containing the  crtW  gene (SEQ ID NO: 12) from DC263 was sequenced and the carotenoid hydroxylase gene was not identified on the 3 kb insert of the pEZ-based plasmid. In order to sequence more of the flanking region, cosmid library was constructed as described earlier for DC263 using the pWEB cosmid cloning kit from Epicentre (Madison, WI) following the manufacturer's instructions. Approximately 600 cosmid clones were grown in 100 µL LB containing 100 µg/mL ampicillin in microtiter plates. The plates were incubated at 30°C with shaking at 700 rpm for 24 hours. The cosmid library was screened by PCR using primers pEZ263-F: 5'- GTTCGAACTGGGGAAAACGGAC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 14) and pEZ263-R: 5'- CAAAGGCGTGAACCGAAATCCG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 15) designed around the  crtW  region of the pEZ-based plasmid. A positive cosmid clone F3-4 was isolated containing an approximately 40 kb insert extending the  crtW  region. The cosmid DNA was prepared and sequenced by random transposon insertion using the EZ-TN<TET-1> kit (Epicentre, Madison, WI) and/or primer walking. The sequences were assembles with the Sequencher™ program v 4.05 (Gene Codes Corp., Ann Arbor, MI). 
     
    
    [0232]
     The  crtZ  hydroxylase gene coding sequence (SEQ ID NOs: 16) was identified by conducting BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool;  Altschul, S. F., et al., J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-4.10 (1993 )) searches for similarity to sequences contained in the BLAST "nr" database (comprising all non-redundant GenBank® CDS translations, sequences derived from the 3-dimensional structure Brookhaven Protein Data Bank, the SWISS-PROT protein sequence database, EMBL, and DDBJ databases). The sequence was analyzed for similarity to all publicly available DNA sequences contained in the "nr" database using the BLASTN algorithm provided by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). DNA sequence was translated in all reading frames and compared for similarity to all publicly available protein sequences contained in the "nr" database using the BLASTX algorithm ( Gish, W. and States, D. J., Nature Genetics, 3:266-272 (1993 )) provided by the NCBI. BLAST analysis identified an ORF that shared homology to β-carotene hydroxylases. The top hit was to a β -carotene hydroxylase from  Alcaligenes sp.  (GenBank® accession number Q44262) with 51% amino acid identity. Table 3 displays data based on the BLASTXnr algorithm with values reported in expect values. 
     
    
    [0233]
     The  crtW -containing cosmid of  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 was also isolated and sequenced similarly as described above for  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263. However, the  crtz  hydroxylase gene of DC18 was not found in the cosmid containing  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18  crtW.   
   
 Isolation of carotenoid hydroxylase gene from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC 700278 
 
   
    
    [0234]
     To identify more carotenoid hydroxylase genes, the partial genome sequence database of  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 was searched. The β-carotene hydroxylase (CrtZ) from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  (SEQ ID NO: 18) was used to BLAST the genome database of  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans.  A hypothetical protein from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  (GenBank® protein Accession No. ZP_00094836.1; SEQ ID NOs. 19 and 20) was identified that exhibited 52% amino acid identity with the  Agrobacterium  CrtZ. This hypothetical protein was then used to BLAST the nr databases. The top hit was 57% identity to the CrtZ from  Pantoea agglomerans pv. Milletiae.  The vast majority of the other "hits" from the BLAST analysis were to β-carotene hydroxylases from different organisms. The hypothetical protein from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  was assayed for β-carotene hydroxylase activity. 
     
    
    [0235]
     The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the two CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylases identified here were also compared with several known carotenoid hydroxylase genes using multiple sequence alignment algorithms in Vector NTI. Table 4 displays the percentage of nucleotide sequence identity and amino acid sequence identity for the pairwise comparisons. The two  crtZ  genes isolated share only low to moderate homology with the known  crtZ  genes and are also very divergent from each other.
   Table 3       Top BLAST Hits for the Carotenoid Hydroxylase Genes Isolated from Different Bacterial Species       ORF Name   Gene Name   Similarity Identified   SEQ ID Nucleotide   SEQ ID Peptide   % Identity  a     % Similarity  b     E-value c     Citation         1     crtZ_ Brevundi monas vesiculari  s DC263   beta-carotene hydroxylase   17   18   51   67   3e-33     Misawa, et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 209 (3), 867-876 (1995 )             gi|2498258|sp|Q44262|CRTZ _ ALC   SP  [ Alcaligenes sp ]                           2     crtZ_Nov osphingo bium aromatic ivorans  ATCC 700278   beta- carotene hydroxylase     20   21   57   73   3e-39   Kamiunten, et al., unpublished (2001)             gi|18143450|dbj|BAB79605.1|  CrtZ [ Pantoea agglomerans pv. milletiae ]                                 a  %Identity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical between the two proteins. 
 b  % Similarity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical or conserved between the two proteins. 
 c  Expect value. The Expect value estimates the statistical significance of the match, specifying the number of matches, with a given score, that are expected in a search of a database of this size absolutely by chance.         
   Table 4. Pairwise Comparison of the Nucleotide and Amino Acid Sequences of the β-carotene Hydroxylases.       DNA/AA Identity a       Brevundimonas vesicularis       Novosphingobium aromaticivorans       Pantoea agglomerans pv. milletiae       Flavobacterium sp.       Pantoea ananatis       Alcaligenes sp.       Agrobacterium aurantiacum             Brevundimonas vesicularis     100/100   60/45   52/49   56/50   50/48   59/52   61/51         Novosphingobium aromaticivorans   b         100/100   52/49   57/49   53/49   57/49   57/46         Pantoea agglomerans pv.  milletiae     c             100/100   54/52   81/87   59/56   57/54         Flavobacterium sp.   d                 100/100   52/49   71/89   73/67         Pantoea ananatis   e                     100/100   57/54   59/54         Alcaligenes sp .  f                         100/100   85/90         Agrobacterium aurantiacum   g                             100/100             a  Percentage of nucleotide sequence identity and amino acid sequence identity. 
 b   Novosphingobium aromaticivorans,  accession AAAV01000142.1 
 c   Pantoea agglomerans pv. milletiae,  accession BAB79605 
 d   Flavobacterium sp.,  accession AAC44852 
 e   Panfoea ananatis,  GenBank® accession D90087 
 f   Alcaligenes sp,  SwissProt accession Q44262 
 g   Agrobacterium aurantiacum,  SwissProt accession P54973           
   
 EXAMPLE 5 
 
 
 Confirmation of the Carotenoid Hydroxylase Function 
 
   
    
    [0236]
     This example describes expression of the novel carotenoid hydroxylase genes in an  E. coli  strain producing β-carotene. Function of each hydroxylase gene was demonstrated by conversion of β-carotene to zeaxanthin. 
     
    
    [0237]
     The β-carotene producing strain used in this study was the  E. coli  strain containing plasmid pDCQ330. The putative hydroxylase genes from the two bacterial strains were amplified by PCR. The  crtZ  from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 was amplified using primers crtZ-DC263_F: 5'-ACTAGTAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGTCCTGGCCGACGATGATC' (SEQ ID NO: 21) and crtZ-DC263_R: 5'- TAGATCAGGCGCCGTTGCTGGATGA -3' (SEQ ID NO: 22). The  crtZ  from ATCC 700278 was amplified using primers 41ZSPH_F: 5'-ACTAGTTCTAGATAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGCAGACGCTTGCCGCG -3' (SEQ ID NO: 23) and SPH_ZR: 5'-GCTAGCCCTAGGTTAGCCGTCCACTGCCTC -3' (SEQ ID NO: 24). The PCR products were cloned into pTrcHis2-TOPO® (Invitrogen) vector and screened for clones containing the insert in the forward orientation. These resulted in pDCQ370TA expressing the  crtZ  gene from DC263, and pTrcHis2-ZS(Sphingo) expressing the  crtZ  gene from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278. These constructs were transformed into the β-carotene accumulating  E. coli  strain containing pDCQ330. The carotenoids in the transformants were analyzed by HPLC ( Figure 3 ) as described in Example 1. The predominant peak eluted at 5.96 min had absorption spectra of (456nm, 480 nm) and molecular weight m/z of 569, which were identical to those of the zeaxanthin synthetic standard. The zeaxanthin standard was purchased from CaroteNature (Lupsingen, Switzerland). Synthesis of zeaxanthin clearly demonstrated the hydroxylase function of the two new  crtZ  genes. 
   
 EXAMPLE 6 
 
 
 Cloning of Astaxanthin-Producing Plasmids 
 
   
    
    [0238]
     This example describes construction of astaxanthin-producing plasmids by expressing the  crtZ  genes from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 or  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 with a  crtW  gene and a β-carotene synthesis gene cluster.  Cloning of an astaxanthin-producing plasmid containing  crtZ  from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263   
     
    
    [0239]
     First, the β-carotene synthesis gene cluster  crtEYIB  was constructed from pDCQ329 by removing the  crtX  gene. To facilitate subsequent cloning, the  EcoR I site at the end of  crtY  gene was also removed. The primers crt-260_F: 5'-GAATTCACTAGTACCAACCATGGATAGCCATTATG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 25) and crt-260SOE_R: 5'-ATCAGGTCGCCTCCGCCAGCACGACTTTCAGTTGAATATCGCTAGCT GTTG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 26) were used to amplify the  crtE  gene. The primers crt-260SOE_F: 5'-CAACAGCTAGCGATATTCAACTGAAAGTCGTGCTGGCGGAGGCGAC CTGAT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 27) and crt-260RI_R: 5'-CATTTTTTCTTCCCTGGTTCGACAGAGTTCAACAGCGCGCGCAGCGC TT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 28) were used to amplify the  crtY  gene. The AAT codon in the  EcoR I site was replaced with an alternative AAC codon to remove the  EcoR I site. The  crtEY  genes were linked together by a SOEing PCR using primers crt-260_F and crt-260RI_R. The  crtIB  fragment was amplified with primers crt-260RI_F: 5'-AAGCGCTGCGCGCGCTGTTGAACTCTGTCGAACCAGGGAAGAAAAA ATG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 29) and crt-260_R: 5'-GAATTCAACGAGGACGCTGCCACAGA-3' (SEQ ID NO: 30). The  crtEYIB  genes were linked together by another SOEing PCR using primers crt-260_F and crt-260_R. The 4.5 kb  EcoR I fragment containing the  crtEYIB  genes was cloned into the  EcoR I site of pBHR1, resulting pDCQ340.  E. coli  containing pDCQ340 was shown to produce β-carotene. 
     
    
    [0240]
     The  crtW  and  crtZ  genes from DC263 were then cloned upstream of the  crtEYIB  cluster on pDCQ340. The  crtW  from DC263 was amplified using primers crtW-263_F: 5'-ACTAGTAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGCGGCAAGCGAACAGGATG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 31) and crtW-263_R: 5'-TCTAGACTAGCTGAACAAACTCCACCAG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 32). The  crtZ  from DC263 was amplified using primers crtZ-263_F2: 5'-TCTAGAAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGTCCTGGCCGACGATGATC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 33) and crtZ-263_R2: 5'-ACTAGTCAGGCGCCGTTGCTGGATGA-3' (SEQ ID NO: 34). The PCR products were cloned into pTrcHis2-TOPO® vector resulting pDCQ342TA and pDCQ352, respectively. The 0.8 kb  Spe I- Xba I fragment from pDCQ342TA containing the  crtW  was cloned into the  Spe I site of pDCQ340. The resulted pDCQ342 contained the  crfW  upstream of  crtEYIB  gene cluster. The 0.5 kb  Xba I- Spe I fragment from pDCQ352 containing  crtZ  was then cloned into the Spel site upstream of the  crtW  on pDCQ342. This resulted in an astaxanthin-producing plasmid, pDCQ344, which contained the  crtZWEYIB  gene cluster expressed from the chloramphenicol resistance gene promoter ( Pcat ) on the pBHR1 vector.  Cloning of an astaxanthin-producing plasmid containing  crtZ  from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278   
     
    
    [0241]
     The  crtZ  from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  was co-expressed with the  crtW  from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 under an endogenous  Methylomonas  promoter,  Phps1  (   US 2004 126 848   ). The  Phps1  promoter was amplified from  Methylomonas  16a genomic DNA using the upstream primer 5'-CCATGGGCTAGCTAAGGATTGGGGTGCGT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 35) and the downstream primer 5'-CCATGGACTAGTGTGATGTGCTCCGAAAGT-3' (SEQ ID NO: 36). The 288 bp  Nco I fragment containing  Phps1  was cloned into the  Nco I site of pBHR1 resulting pDCQ363. The c rtZ  from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 was digested with  Spe I and  Nhe I from pTrcHis2-ZS(Sphingo) and cloned into the  Spe I site of pDCQ363 resulting pDCQ364. The  crtW  from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 was amplified using primers crtW_sphingo_F 5'-ACTAGTAAGGAGGAATAAACCATGACCGTCG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 37) and crtW_sphingo_R 5'- ATCTAGATTACCGGTCTTTGCTTAACGACCG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 38). The  Spe I- Xba I fragment containing the  crtW  was cloned into the  Spe I and  Xba I sites of pDCQ364. In the resulted construct pDCQ365, the  crtW from Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 and the  crtZ  from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC No. 700278 were co-expressed as one transcriptional unit under the endogenous  Methylomonas  promoter  Phps1.  The  Nco I fragment containing this  crtWZ  transcriptional unit was then cloned into the  Nco I site of a β-carotene synthesis plasmid pDCQ330 resulting in the astaxanthin-producing plasmid pDCQ366. 
   
 EXAMPLE 7 
 
 
 Production of Astaxanthin in  E. coli  and  Methylomonas   
 
   
    
    [0242]
     This example describes the process used to transform the astaxanthin-producing plasmids into two unrelated microbial host cells, such as  E. coli  and  Methylomonas sp.  16a (ATCC PTA-2402), to produce astaxanthin based on previously reported methods (   US 2005124033   ). 
     
    
    [0243]
     Briefly, the plasmids were transferred into  Methylomonas  16a by tri-parental conjugal mating (   US 2005 124 033   ). An  E. coli  helper strain containing pRK2013 (ATCC No. 37159) and the    E. coli    10G or DH10B donor strain containing the plasmid pDCQ344 or pDCQ366 were grown overnight in LB medium containing kanamycin (50 µg/mL), washed three times in LB, and resuspended in a volume of LB representing approximately a 60-fold concentration of the original culture volume. 
     
    
    [0244]
     The  Methylomonas sp.  16a MWM1200 strain contains a double crossover knockout of the  crtN1aldcrtN2  gene cluster, which disrupted the synthesis of the native C 30  carotenoids (   US 2005 124 033   ). (The MWM1200 strain was grown as the recipient using the general conditions described in    US 2003 003528   . Briefly,  Methylomonas 16a  MWM1200 strain was grown in serum stoppered Wheaton bottles (Wheaton Scientific, Wheaton IL) using a gas/liquid ratio of at least 8:1 (i.e., 20 mL of Nitrate liquid "BTZ-3" media in 160 mL total volume) at 30°C with constant shaking. 
   
 Nitrate medium for  Methylomonas  16A 
 
   
    
    [0245]
     Nitrate liquid medium, also referred to herein as "defined medium" or "BTZ-3" medium is comprised of various salts mixed with Solution 1 as indicated below (Tables 5 and 6) or where specified the nitrate is replaced with 15 mM ammonium chloride. Solution 1 provides the composition for 100-fold concentrated stock solution of trace minerals.
     Table 5           Solution 1*           MW       MW       Conc. (mM)       g per L           Nitriloacetic acid.   191.1   66.9   12.8       CuCl 2  x 2H 2 O   170.48   0.15   0.0254       FeCl 2  x 4H 2 O   198.81   1.5   0.3       MnCl 2  x 4H 2 O   197.91   0.5   0.1       CoCl 2  x 6H 2 O   237.9   1.31   0.312       ZnCl 2     136.29   0.73   0.1       H 3 BO 3     61.83   0.16   0.01       Na 2 MoO 4  x 2H 2 O   241.95   0.04   0.01       NiCl 2  x 6H 2 O   237.7   0.77   0.184           *Mix the gram amounts designated above in 900 mL of H 2 O, adjust to pH=7, and add H 2 O to an end volume of 1 L. Keep refrigerated.         
     Table 6           Nitrate liquid medium (BTZ-3)**             MW   Conc. (mM)   g per L         NaNO 3     84.99   10   0.85       KH 2 PO 4     136.09   3.67   0.5       Na 2 SO 4     142.04   3.52   0.5       MgCl 2  x 6H 2 O   203.3   0.98   0.2       CaCl 2  x 2H 2 O   147.02   0.68   0.1                           1 M HEPES (pH 7)   238.3       50 mL       Solution 1           10 mL           **Dissolve in 900 mL H 2 O. Adjust to pH=7, and add H 2 O to give 1 L. 
For agar plates: Add 15 g ofagarose in 1 L of medium, autoclave, let cool down to 50°C, mix, and pour plates.           
     
    
    [0246]
     The standard gas phase for cultivation contains 25% methane in air. The  Methylomonas sp.  16a MWM1200 recipient strain was cultured under these conditions for 48 h in BTZ-3 medium, washed three times in BTZ-3, and resuspended in a volume of BTZ-3 representing a 150-fold concentration of the original culture volume. 
     
    
    [0247]
     The donor, helper, and recipient cell pastes were combined in ratios of 1:1:2, respectively, on the surface of BTZ-3 agar plates containing 0.5% (w/v) yeast extract. Plates were maintained at 30°C in 25% methane for 16-72 hours to allow conjugation to occur, after which the cell pastes were collected and resuspended in BTZ-3. Dilutions were plated on BTZ-3 agar containing kanamycin (50 µg/mL) and incubated at 30°C in 25% methane for up to 1 week. Orange-red transconjugants were streaked onto BTZ-3 agar with kanamycin (50 µg/mL). 
     
    
    [0248]
     For analysis of carotenoid composition,  Methylomonas  transconjugants were cultured in a 24-well block (Qiagen) with each well containing 1 mL BTZ-3 containing kanamycin (50 µg/mL). The block was covered with Airpore ™  film (Qiagen) and incubated in an AnaeroPack ™  System (Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co., Inc., Japan) filled with 25% methane as the sole carbon source. The AnaeroPack ™  was shaking at 250 rpm for 2-3 days at 30°C.  E. coli  cells containing the astaxanthin plasmid was grown in 25 ml LB containing kanamycin (50 µg/mL) at 30°C shaking at 250 rpm for 2-3 days. The cells were harvested by centrifugation and the pellets were extracted and carotenoid content was analyzed by HPLC, as described in Example 1. 
     
    
    [0249]
     HPLC analysis of extracts from    E. coli    10G or  Methylomonas  16a MWM1200 containing pDCQ344 was shown in  Figure 4 . Astaxanthin comprised of approximately 80% of total carotenoids produced in  E. coli  or  Methylomonas  containing pDCQ344. The astaxanthin peak eluted at 5.2-5.3 min had absorption maximum of 480 nm and molecular weight m/z of 597, which were identical to those of the synthetic standard of astaxanthin. The minor peak eluted at 5.8-5.9 min had absorption maximum of 464 nm and molecular weight m/z of 583, which were identical to those of the synthetic standard of adonixanthin. The synthetic astaxanthin and adonixanthin standards were purchased from CaroteNature (Lupsingen, Switzerland). HPLC analysis of extracts from  E. coli  DH10B or  Methylomonas  16a MWM1200 containing pDCQ366 was shown in  Figure 5 . Astaxanthin was produced from both the  E. coli  and the  Methylomonas  as the predominant carotenoid eluted at 4.4-4.6 min in this run. In addition to several minor peaks, a peak eluted at 11.2 min comprised of 10% of total carotenoids in  Methylomonas.  This peak had absorption maximum of 448nm,474nm,504nm and molecular weight m/z of 536, which agrees with those for lycopene, an intermediate for astaxanthin biosynthesis. 
   SEQUENCE LISTING 
   
    
    [0250]
     
     
 <110> E.I. DuPOnt de Nemours and Company 
 <120> Carotenoid Hydroxylase Enzymes 
 <130> CL2676 PCT 
 <150>      US  60/601947     
<151> 2004-08-16 
 <160> 38 
 <170> PatentIn version 3.3 
 <210> 1 
<211> 19 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 1 
gagtttgatc ctggctcag    19 
 <210> 2 
<211> 15 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 2 
 acgggcggtg tgtac     15 
 <210> 3 
<211> 16 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 3 
 gccagcagcc gcggta     16 
 <210> 4 
<211> 1268 
<212> DNA 
<213> Brevundimonas vesicularis DC263 
 <400> 4
 
   
 <210> 5 
<211> 1291 
<212> DNA 
<213> sphingomonas melonis DC18 
 <400>
 
   
 <210> 6 
<211> 6999 
<212> DNA 
<213> Enterobacteriaceae DC260 
 <400> 6
 
 
 
   
 <210> 7 
<211> 31 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 7 
gaattcacca accatggata gccattatga c    31 
 <210> 8 
<211> 26 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 8 
gaattcaacg aggacgctgc cacaga    26 
 <210> 9 
<211> 34 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 9 
gaattcacta gtcgagacgc cgggtaccaa ccat    34 
 <210> 10 
<211> 25 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 10 
gaattctagc gcgggcgctg ccaga    25 
 <210> 
<211> 5632 
<212> DNA 
<213> Pantoea agglomerans DC404 
 <400> 11
 
 
 
   
 <210> 12 
<211> 780 
<212> DNA 
<213> Brevunidmonas vesicularis DC263 
 <400> 12
   
 <210> 13 
<211> 747 
<212> DNA 
<213> sphingomonas melonis DC18 
 <400> 13
   
 <210> 14 
<211> 22 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 14 
gttcgaactg gggaaaacgg ac    22 
 <210> 15 
<211> 22 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 15 
caaaggcgtg aaccgaaatc cg    22 
 <210> 16 
<211> 486 
<212> DNA 
<213> Brevundimonas vesicularis DC263 
 <220> 
<221> CDS 
<222> (1)..(486) 
 <400> 16
   
 <210> 17 
<211> 161 
<212> PRT 
<213> Brevundimonas vesicularis DC263 
 <400> 17
 
   
 <210> 18 
<211> 489 
<212> DNA 
<213> Agrobacterium aurantiacum 
 <400> 18
   
 <210> 19 
<211> 519 
<212> DNA 
<213> Novosphingobium aromaticivorans ATCC 700278 
 <220> 
<221> CDS 
<222> (1)..(519) 
 <400> 19
   
 <210> 20 
<211> 172 
<212> PRT 
<213> Novosphingobium aromaticivorans ATCC 700278 
 <400> 20
 
   
 <210> 21 
<211> 42 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 21 
actagtaagg aggaataaac catgtcctgg ccgacgatga tc    42 
 <210> 22 
<211> 25 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 22 
tagatcaggc gccgttgctg gatga    25 
 <210> 23 
<211> 46 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 23 
actagttcta gataaggagg aataaaccat gcagacgctt gccgcg    46 
 <210> 24 
<211> 30 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 24 
gctagcccta ggttagccgt ccactgcctc    30 
 <210> 25 
<211> 35 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 25 
gaattcacta gtaccaacca tggatagcca ttatg    35 
 <210> 26 
<211> 51 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 26 
atcaggtcgc ctccgccagc acgactttca gttgaatatc gctagctgtt g    51 
 <210> 27 
<211> 51 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 27 
caacagctag cgatattcaa ctgaaagtcg tgctggcgga ggcgacctga t    51 
 <210> 28 
<211> 49 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 28 
cattttttct tccctggttc gacagagttc aacagcgcgc gcagcgctt    49 
 <210> 29 
<211> 49 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 29 
aagcgctgcg cgcgctgttg aactctgtcg aaccagggaa gaaaaaatg    49 
 <210> 30 
<211> 26 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 30 
gaattcaacg aggacgctgc cacaga    26 
 <210> 31 
<211> 42 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 31 
actagtaagg aggaataaac catgcggcaa gcgaacagga tg    42 
 <210> 32 
<211> 28 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 32 
tctagactag ctgaacaaac tccaccag    28 
 <210> 33 
<211> 42 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 33 
tctagaaagg aggaataaac catgtcctgg ccgacgatga tc    42 
 <210> 34 
<211> 26 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 34 
actagtcagg cgccgttgct ggatga    26 
 <210> 35 
<211> 29 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 35 
ccatgggcta gctaaggatt ggggtgcgt    29 
 <210> 36 
<211> 30 
<212> DNA 
<213> Artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 36 
ccatggacta gtgtgatgtg ctccgaaagt    30 
 <210> 37 
<211> 31 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 37 
actagtaagg aggaataaac catgaccgtc g    31 
 <210> 38 
<211> 31 
<212> DNA 
<213> artificial sequence 
 <220> 
<223> primer 
 <400> 38 
atctagatta ccggtctttg cttaacgacc g    31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
