
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 
 
   
    
    [0001]
     The invention relates to compositions and their use in the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
   
 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 
 
 
 Protein Misfolding and Aggregation 
 
   
    
    [0002]
     Proteins can fold into complex and close-packed structures. Folding is not only crucial for biological activity but failure of proteins to fold properly or remain folded can give rise to disease (reviewed in 48). Misfolding can in some cases cause protein aggregation which can further give rise to discrete deposits extracellularly (e.g., plaques) or intracellularly (e.g., inclusions in the cytosol or nucleus). 
     
    
    [0003]
     Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and prion diseases are characterized by neural deposits of misfolded aggregated protein (reviewed in 49). 
     
    
    [0004]
     Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson's disease/Lewy body dementia (PD, LBD) also pose major challenges to our aging population and health care system. 
     
    
    [0005]
     Sporadic AD, ALS, and PD/LBD are all associated with neural accumulation of pathological multimers of misfolded polypeptides (these could potentially be fibrils, protofilaments, and amorphous aggregates), including the amyloid-beta (Abeta) fragment of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) in AD; superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) in ALS, AD, and PD, and alpha-synuclein in PD and LBD. Additionally familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (FAP) results from the aggregation of transthyretin to form amyloid deposits. As with prion diseases, mutations in genes encoding these polypeptides are associated with autosomal dominant familial forms of AD, ALS, and PD. 
   
 ALS and Protein Misfolding 
 
   
    
    [0006]
     Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neuromuscular disease which afflicts about 30,000 patients in North America, with 5,000 new cases per year. In ALS, also known as "Lou Gehrig's disease," muscles of the limbs, speech and swallowing, and respiration weaken and atrophy, due to degeneration of motor nerve cells that supply them from the spinal cord and brain. Half of affected patients are dead within 3 years, with survival over 5 years being less than 20%. 
     
    
    [0007]
     ALS belongs to a family of fatal neurodegenerative disorders, which includes prion illnesses, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and in which aggregated misfolded proteins are thought to cause progressive killing of brain cells. About 20% of familial (inherited) ALS is associated with mutations in the gene encoding superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), an intracellular free radical defense enzyme (see 73 and Table 1 for listing of known mutations). Intracellular deposits of aggregated misfolded SOD1 have been observed in familial ALS, and also in the more common non-familial (sporadic) ALS, suggesting that SOD1 aggregation may underlie all ALS. 
     
    
    [0008]
     Experiments performed in cell culture and mice transgenic for human mutant SOD1 have established that extracellular misfolded SOD1 is highly toxic for motor neurons (1), in part by activation of killing pathways by local immune cells (microglia). Recently, it has also become clear that misfolded SOD1 is exported from the cell by both secretory and constitutive mechanisms (1, 2). 
     
    
    [0009]
     Aggregation of SOD1 may progress through a protein-based template-directed misfolding mechanism (3) similar to that proposed for the prion diseases (4). Thus, misfolded SOD1 in the extracellular space is not only directly toxic for motor neurons, but may also participate in the cell-to-cell propagation of disease throughout the nervous system by a prion-like templated misfolding process.
     TABLE 1. Detected Mutations in SOD1 in FALS.           Amino Acid       Mutation       Amino Acid       Mutation       Amino Acid       Mutation           4   A -> S (in FALS).   67   L -> R (in FALS).   112   I -> M (in FALS).       4   A → T (in FALS).   72   G -> S (in FALS).   112   I -> T (in FALS).       4   A -> V (in FALS).   76   D -> Y (in FALS).   113   I -> T (in FALS).       6   C -> F (in FALS).   80   H -> A (in ALS).   114   G -> A (in FALS).       7   V -> E (in FALS).   84   L -> F (in FALS).   115   R -> G (in FALS).       8   L -> Q (in FALS).   84   L -> V (in FALS).   118   V -> VFLQ (in FALS).       8   L -> V (in FALS).   85   G -> R (in FALS).   124   D -> V (in FALS).       12   G -> R (in FALS).   86   N -> S (in FALS).   125   D -> H (in FALS).       14   V -> G (in FALS).   89   A -> V (in FALS).   126   L -> S (in FALS).       14   V -> M (in FALS).   90   D -> A (in FALS).   133   Missing (in ALS).       16   G -> S (in ALS).   90   D -> V (in FALS).   134   S -> N (in FALS).       21   E -> G (in FALS).   93   G -> A (in FALS).   139   N -> K (in FALS).       21   E -> K (in FALS).   93   G -> C (in FALS).   144   L -> F (in FALS).       37   G -> R (in FALS.   93   G -> D (in FALS).   144   L -> S (in FALS).       38   L -> R (in FALS).   93   G -> R (in FALS).   145   A → T (in FALS).       38   L -> V (in FALS).   93   G -> V (in FALS).   146   C -> R (in FALS).       41   G -> D (in FALS).   100   E -> G (in FALS).   148   V -> G (in FALS).       41   G -> S (in FALS).   100   E -> K (in FALS).   148   V -> I (in FALS).       43   H -> R (in FALS).   101   D -> G (in FALS).   149   I -> T (in FALS).       45   F -> C (in FALS).   101   D -> N (in FALS).   151   I -> T (in FALS).       46   H -> R (in FALS).   104   I → F (in FALS).               48   H -> Q (in FALS).   105   S -> L (in FALS).               49   E -> K (in FALS).   106   L -> V (in FALS).               65   N -> S (in FALS).   108   G -> V (in FALS).                   
   
 Alzheimer's Disease 
 
   
    
    [0010]
     AD is a common dementing (disordered memory and cognition) neurodegenerative disease associated with brain accumulation of extracellular plaques composed predominantly of the Abeta (1-40), Abeta (1-42) and Abeta (1-43) peptides, all of which are proteolytic products of APP (reviewed in 50) In addition, neurofibrillary tangles, composed principally of abnormally phosphorylated tau protein (a neuronal microtubule-associated protein), accumulate intracellularly in dying neurons (reviewed in 49). Familial forms of AD can be caused by mutations in the APP gene, or in the  presenilin  1 or 2 genes (reviewed in 51), the protein products of which are implicated in the processing of APP to Abeta. Apolipoprotein E allelic variants also influence the age at onset of both sporadic and familial forms of AD (reviewed in 52). Abeta, tau and phosphorylated tau has been detected in the blood and CSF of AD patients and in normal controls (53 - 55). Immunization of Alzheimer's disease patients with Abeta has shown some promising preliminary treatment results, although limited by autoimmune meningoencephalitis in humans (56 - 58) 
   
 Parkinson's Disease 
 
   
    
    [0011]
     PD is a neurodegenerative movement disorder, second only to AD in prevalence (-350 per 100,000 population; reviewed in 59). It is clinically characterized by rigidity, slowness of movement, and tremor. Most cases of Parkinson's disease are sporadic, but both sporadic and familial forms of the disease are characterized by intracellular Lewy bodies in dying neurons of the substantia nigra, a population of midbrain neurons (-60,000) that are selectively decimated in PD. Lewy bodies are predominantly composed of alpha-synuclein (60). Mutations in, and duplication of, the gene encoding alpha-synuclein have been found in patients with familial Parkinson's disease (reviewed in 61). Another gene associated with autosomal recessive PD is parkin, which is involved in alpha-synuclein degradation (61). Diffuse cortical Lewy bodies composed of alpha-synuclein are observed in Lewy body disease (LBD), a dementing syndrome associated with parkinsonian tone changes, hallucinations, and rapid symptom fluctuation (62). LBD may be the second most common form of neurodegenerative dementia after AD, accounting for 20 to 30 percent of cases among persons over the age of 60 years. Similar to the vaccine approach to Alzheimer's disease (58 - 60) promising results in a mouse model of Parkinson's/Lewy body disease have been obtained by immunization with alpha synuclein (63). Other dementing syndromes include fronto-termporal dementias, Pick's disease, and corticobasal dementia, and others known to neurological medicine. 
   
 SOD1 has been Detected in AD and PD Protein Aggregates 
 
   
    
    [0012]
     Oxidative stress has been implicated in several neurodegenerative diseases, including ALS, PD and AD. Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (ROS and RNS respectively) generated in these environments may participate in cell injury including the abnormal oxidation of proteins or lipids. Other pathological hallmarks of such disease include cytoskeletal debris accumulations and selective neuronal death, frequently attributed to oxidative stress and the accumulated insoluble protein (74-81). Several enzymes including SOD1 have antioxidant roles. Alterations in the activity of such enzymes may contribute to a neurodegenerative disease state. 
     
    
    [0013]
     Recently, Choi et al. (64) reported that SOD1 is a major target of oxidative damage in AD and PD brains. They noted that the total level of SOD1 is increased in both AD and PD and that SOD1 forms proteinaceous aggregates that are associated with amyloid senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in AD brains. Choi et al. (64) have suggested that AD, PD and ALS may share a common pathogenic mechanism. It has also recently been shown that SOD1 is secreted into the extracellular space, in a form which is toxic to neurons, but more accessible by extracellular therapeutic agents (1). 
     
    
    [0014]
     The implication that extracellular misfolded SOD1 plays a role in ALS pathogenesis provides an opportunity for the antibody treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, as this compartment is accessible to antibody neutralization. In normal humans, IgGs can cross the blood brain barrier to levels between 1/100 and 1/1000 that of circulating concentrations; and transudation of immunoglobulins is often increased in diseases affecting the blood brain barrier. However, treatment of human patients with antibodies or vaccines targeted to accessible extracellular epitopes on ubiquitous proteins may lead to deleterious autoimmune effects such as those seen with Abeta in Alzheimer disease. Thus, there remains a need in the art for compositions and methods for diagnosis and treatment of misfolded SOD1-related diseases, such as ALS, AD and PD. 
     
    
    [0015]
       Goldberg (2005) " SESSION 7A Protein Folding and Degradation Defects ", Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Vol. 6, No. 4, Suppl. 1: pages 33-35  discloses a C45 monomeric/misfolded SOD1 detected in mouse models of ALS using a desgined antibody. 
     
    
    [0016]
         WO 2007/025385    discloses an antibody which specifically binds to an abnormal. superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), and which neutralizes its pathologic effect when administered to an animal such as a human. The antibody is a monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell lines deposited with the International Depositary Authority of Canada on August 29th, 2006 under accession numbers ADI-290806-01, ADI-290806-02 and ADI-290806-03. Also disclosed is the use of the antibody in the treatment, prevention and diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson and Alzheimer in an animal such as a human. 
     
    
    [0017]
         US 5,849,290    and Database Geneseq (24 February 2009) "Human Cu/ Zn SOD exon  2 protein fragment", retrieved from EBI accession no. GSP: AAW82448 disclose the amino acid sequence of the human CU/Zn SOD protein fragment encoded by the  SOD1 gene exon  2. 
   
 S UMMARY OF THE INVENTION   
 
   
    
    [0018]
     Misfolded SOD1 is toxic to neurons (1) and is believed to participate in neuronal cell death and dysfunction in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other neurodegenerative diseases. The present invention uses SOD1 disease-specific epitopes (DSEs) as a target for vaccines or immunotherapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Also disclosed are DSEs as a target for vaccines or immunotherapy for (ALS), Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's (PD) and Lewy body diseases (LBD). The invention isolates and targets epitopes that are presented selectively by non-native forms of SOD1 that are associated with ALS. These epitopes are not presented or accessible in native forms of SOD1. For example, disease specific epitopes such as ALS-specific, AD-specific and PD-specific epitopes are not presented by the native dimeric forms of SOD1. However, disease specific epitopes are presented or accessible when the SOD1 monomer either fails to associate or dissociates from its normal, homodimeric state, and in other non-native forms of SOD1, including misfolded SOD1 monomers, misfolded SOD1 dimers and SOD1 aggregates. These epitopes are selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, and are characteristic of non-native-SOD1 related conditions, diseases and disorders. 
     
    
    [0019]
     In this application, "ALS-specific" epitopes refers to epitopes that are presented on the ALS-associated forms of SOD1, "AD-specific" epitopes refers to epitopes that are presented on the AD-associated forms of SOD1, and "PD-specific" epitopes refers to epitopes that are presented on the PD-associated forms of SOD1 that arise from processes such as misfolding, aggregation or dissociation. Misfolded SOD1 presents many of the same epitopes in each of ALS, AD and PD however, for convenience herein, the epitopes are described as "specific" to that disease because, within the body of a particular subject, the epitopes are specifically presented only on the non-native toxic SOD1 that causes, underlies or is associated with the neurodegenerative disease. Such disease-specific epitopes thus include the epitopes on SOD1 monomer that are revealed when the SOD1 monomer dissociates from its normal, homodimeric state, the epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native SOD1 forms including misfolded SOD1 monomer, misfolded SOD1 dimer, and the epitopes selectively presented or accessible in SOD1 aggregates. 
     
    
    [0020]
     The present invention provides compositions, isolated antibodies, immunogens and uses of said compositions, isolated antibodies and immunuogens in treating ALS, as well as hybrodomas, kits and methods for obtaining said antibodies as defined in the appended claims. 
     
    
    [0021]
     Disclosed are epitopes which are presented by or accessible on non-native forms of SOD1 including:
       DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) (   WO 2005/019828   );   NPLSRKHGGPKDEE (DSE3) (   WO 2005/019828   );   IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5) (8);   HCIIGRTLVVH (DSE 6) (8); and   GLHGFHVH (DSE7),   
as well as the additional epitopes which are presented by or accessible only on monomeric forms of SOD1, which include:
   RLACGVIGI (DSE1); and   KAVCVLK (DSE4).   
   
    
    [0022]
     The present application discloses these epitopes, and/or antigenic determinants contained within these epitopes, and similarly any epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, as targets for immunotherapeutic intervention. For example, isolated peptides corresponding to these epitopes are useful to reduce or inhibit participation of monomeric, dimeric or misfolded SOD1 in SOD1 aggregation, which is characteristic of misfolded-SOD1 related disorders, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and/or Parkinson's disease. Accordingly, isolated peptides corresponding to these epitopes can be used to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and/or Parkinson's disease and can be used to elicit a selective immune response in an animal against the monomeric, aggregated or misfolded SOD1 molecules, and to inhibit or neutralize the toxic effect of these misfolded SOD1 species on neurons. In the case where the isolated peptide corresponding to a disease specific epitope is used in a vaccine, the isolated peptide can be any analog of the noted isolated peptides that yields endogenous antibody to that epitope. In addition, the inventor provides binding proteins such as antibodies and fragments that bind to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, antibodies and fragments that bind Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes and antibodies and fragments that bind Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes. These antibodies can be used to detect or treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. 
     
    
    [0023]
     Accordingly, disclosed is a composition useful for inhibiting SOD1 aggregation mediated by monomeric, or misfolded SOD1, and thus for treating SOD1 disorders including neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and/or Parkinson's disease. Accordingly, disclosed is a composition for treating a neurodegenerative disease such as ALS, AD or PD in a subject comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 (optionally referred to as a disease-specific epitope), or an immunogen comprising such an peptide, in admixture with a suitable, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier. Also disclosed is a composition for treating ALS in a subject comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, or an analog thereof that elicits endogenous antibody that binds that epitope or an immunogen comprising such isolated peptide, in admixture with a suitable, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier. Also disclosed is a composition for treating AD in a subject, comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or associated with non-native forms of SOD1, or an analog thereof that elicits endogenous antibody that binds that epitope or an immunogen comprising such isolated peptide or analog, in admixture with a suitable, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier. Also disclosed is a composition for treating PD in a subject, comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, or an immunogen comprising such peptide, in admixture with a suitable, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier. 
     
    
    [0024]
     Disclosed is an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, being selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or in Table 2A (described below), or an analog thereof. 
   
 Table 2. Isolated Peptides Corresponding to Epitopes Selectively Accessible in Non-native Forms of SOD1 
 
   
    
    [0025]
             RLACGVIGI (SEQ ID NO: 1, DSE1):   DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (SEQ ID NO: 2, DSE2);   NPLSRKHGGPKDEE; (SEQ ID NO: 3, DSE3):
   IKGLTEGLHGF; SEQ ID NO: 5, DSE5);   HCIIGRTLVVH; SEQ ID NO: 6, DSE6);   RLA[Cysteic acid]GVIGI (DSE1a); SEQ ID NO: 8, DSE1a);   KAVCVLK (DSE4); SEQ ID NO: 4, DSE4) and   GLHGFHVH (DSE7) SEQ ID # NO: 7, DSE7).       
These isolated peptides listed in Table 2 are referred to herein as the "Table 2 isolated peptides".
       
    
    [0026]
     Disclosed is a pharmaceutical composition for treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject comprising an effective amount of an isolated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, or an immunogen comprising such epitope, in admixture with a suitable, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier. In one disclosure, the epitope or an immunogenic form thereof is selectively presented or accessible in the monomeric form of SOD1. Such epitopes include those which recognize a SOD1 monomer epitope that lies normally in the SOD1 dimer interface. Other such epitopes are those accessible on the surface of SOD1 when the SOD1 monomers are in their normal associated state, e.g., when SOD is in its dimer form, or when in its aggregated form. In particular disclosures, the isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope is selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0027]
     Analogs of the isolated peptides and modified isolated peptides are also useful. Analogs and modified isolated peptides comprise in vivo occurring and molecularly engineered peptides corresponding to the epitopes presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 which retain the capacity to elicit production of antibodies that specifically recognize the corresponding epitopes in monomeric, misfolded or aggregated forms of SOD1. In one disclosure the isolated peptide analog comprises a cysteic acid. Disclosed is an analog isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope comprises RLAC*GVIGI (DSE1 a), wherein * denotes an oxidized cysteine, in the form of cysteic acid. 
     
    
    [0028]
     Disclosed is a composition for treating a SOD1 mediated disorder, disease or condition comprising an effective amount of an isolated nucleic acid that encodes for a peptide or analog corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. Disclosed is a composition for treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis comprising an effective amount of an isolated nucleic acid that encodes for a peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. 
     
    
    [0029]
     In one disclosure, the nucleic acid encodes an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0030]
     Disclosed is a composition for treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis comprising an effective amount of a nucleic acid that encodes for an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier, wherein the isolated peptide corresponding to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope is selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0031]
     These compositions can be used to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and/or Parkinson's disease and in methods to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and/or Parkinson's disease. 
     
    
    [0032]
     The compositions are useful particularly for treating a neurodegenerative disease using immunotherapy directed at an epitope presented in misfolded SOD1, wherein the treatment comprises either active immunotherapy i.e., vaccine-based therapy in which the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope is used in an immunogen to elicit antibodies which recognize monomeric or misfolded SOD1 in the recipient, or comprise passive immunotherapy in which an antibody to the isolated peptide corresponding to the epitope is administered to the recipient. The composition is typically a pharmaceutical composition. 
     
    
    [0033]
     Accordingly, disclosed is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope presented in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. The medical condition, disease or disorder includes, but is not limited to, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. 
     
    
    [0034]
     Another disclosure is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier, wherein the isolated peptide corresponding to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope is selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0035]
     In one disclosure, the composition is a pharmaceutical composition for treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject by active immunization, comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, or an immunogen comprising such an isolated peptide corresponding to said epitope, in admixture with a suitable vehicle, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier. In one disclosure, the isolated peptide or an immunogenic form thereof corresponds to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in the monomeric form of SOD1. Such epitopes include those epitopes in SOD1 monomer which normally lie in the SOD1 dimer interface. Other such epitopes are those accessible on the surface of SOD1 when in its dimer form, or when SOD1 is in its aggregated form. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope being selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0036]
     Disclosed is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of a nucleic acid encoding a peptide corresponding to anepitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. The medical condition, disease or disorder is a SOD1 disorder such as a neurodegenerative disease that includes, but is not limited to, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. 
     
    
    [0037]
     A further disclosure is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of a nucleic acid encoding an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier, wherein the isolated peptide corresponding to a amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope is selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0038]
     These compositions are useful to elicit an immune response in an animal and are useful in methods to elicit an immune response in an animal against non-native forms of SOD1, including an immune response against amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes and/or Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes. 
     
    
    [0039]
     These compositions are useful to generate binding proteins such as antibodies against non-native forms of SOD1, including antibodies that bind amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes and/or Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes. 
     
    
    [0040]
     Accordingly, disclosed are exogenous antibodies specific for non-native forms of SOD1, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes and/or Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes. 
     
    
    [0041]
     In one disclosure, the antibodies specific for non-native forms of SOD1 are produced using a composition comprising an isolated peptide corresponding to a disease-specific epitope selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0042]
     In one disclosure, the antibody binds to the epitope RLACGVIGI. In another disclosure the antibody binds to the epitope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS. In another disclosure the antibody binds to the epitope NPLSRKHGGPKDEE. In an aspect of the invention, the antibody binds to the epitope IKGLTEGLHGF. In another disclosure the antibody binds to the epitope HCIIGRTLVVH. In another disclosure the antibody binds to the epitope RLAC*GVIGI. In another disclosre the antibody binds to the epitope KAVCVLK. In an aspect of the invention, the antibody binds to the epitope GLHGFHVH. 
     
    
    [0043]
     The antibodies of the invention may be polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal antibodies, chimeric antibodies, humanized antibodies, human antibodies, and/or epitope binding fragments and analogs thereof. The invention further comprises hybridomas that produce antibodies to DSE5. Embodiments of the present invention include the hybridomas per se, as well as progeny thereof, subsequent fusions therewith, and endogenous DNA and RNA that encodes the SOD1 antibody. In related aspects, the invention thus further provides a method for producing antibodies that bind selectively to DSE5, comprising the step of culturing the hybridomas. These antibodies are useful to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis by passive immunization. For example, they inhibit or neutralize the toxic effect of these misfolded SOD1 species on neurons, and/or they prevent disease progression by immunological clearing of toxic SOD aggregates, by inhibiting SOD1 aggregation mediated by misfolded SOD1, and/or by blocking the SOD1 template directed misfolding process. Thus, the invention includes compositions useful to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject comprising an effective amount of an antibody specific for DSE5 or DSE7in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. 
     
    
    [0044]
     In addition to antibodies, other agents that bind specifically to epitopes presented or accessible on non-native forms of SOD1 and not presented or accessible on native forms of SOD1 are also disclosed. Agents that bind include polypeptides, small molecules, nucleic and peptide aptamers, affibodies and anticalins. 
     
    
    [0045]
     More generally, disclosed is a method for treating a subject having a medical condition, disease, or disorder mediated by a non-native form of superoxide dismutase (SOD), the method comprising the step of administering to the subject a composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle and an agent selected from (1) a protein in the form of an antibody or fragment thereof that binds selectively to the monomeric or misfolded form of SOD1, and/or (2) an immunogen that elicits production of said antibody by said subject, and/or (3) a nucleic acid sequence encoding (1) or (2). 
     
    
    [0046]
     The disclosed methods thus relate to immunotherapeutic applications of SOD1 antibodies that bind selectively to epitopes accessible on the monomeric or misfolded forms of SOD1 present in disease states. The method can be conducted as monotherapy, in which any one antibody or any one epitope is administered to the subject. In the alternative, the method can be conducted as a combination therapy, in which the subject is treated to receive both a selected antibody or peptide corresponding to an epitope and another agent useful in the treatment or management of the disease. 
     
    
    [0047]
     These antibodies are useful to detect non-native forms of monomeric, dimeric or aggregated forms of SOD1, and thereby are useful to diagnose amyotrophic lateral sclerosisDisclosed is a method of detecting or diagnosing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject comprising the steps of:
       (a) contacting a test sample of said subject with an antibody specific for an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, wherein the antibody binds to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope to produce an antibody-antigen complex;   (b) measuring the amount of the antibody-antigen complex in the test sample; and   (c) comparing the amount of antibody-antigen complex in the test sample to a control wherein a difference in the amount of antibody-antigen complex in the test sample as compared to the control is indicative of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Optionally, and in the case where the misfolded SOD1 epitope is masked within a SOD1 aggregation, the method provides for the step of treating the sample to promote disaggregation of the SOD1 aggregate to expose the target epitope prior to step (a).   
   
    
    [0048]
     These antibodies and/or binding fragments thereof are usefully conjugated to labels to produce a diagnostic agent. 
     
    
    [0049]
     Disclosed are kits comprising the disclosed compositions and antibodies to treat neurogenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease for instance to inhibit SOD1 aggregation; to elicit an immune response in an animal; or to detect misfolded SOD1, and thereby to diagnose a neurodegenerative disease such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease. 
     
    
    [0050]
     Also disclosed are novel isolated peptides. In one disclosure the novel isolated peptides comprise peptides comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of:
       RLACGVIGI (SEQ ID NO: 1, DSE1)   ACGVIGI (SEQ ID NO:9, DSE1 analog)   Ac-GG-RLACGVIG-GGKG (SEQ ID NO:10, DSE1 analog)   CDLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (SEQ ID NO: 11, DSE2 analog)   CNPLSRKHGGPKDEE (SEQ ID NO:12, DSE3 analog)   CIKGLTEGLHGF (SEQ ID NO:14, DSE5 analog)   RLA[Cysteic acid]GVIGI (SEQ ID NO: 8, DSE1a)   A[Cysteic acid]GVIGI (SEQ ID NO: 13, DSE1a analog)   C-GGG-RLA[Cysteic acid]GVIGI- GSG (SEQ ID NO: 15, DSE1a analog)   KAVCVLK (SEQ ID NO: 4, DSE4);   GSGKAVCLK (SEQ ID NO:16 , DSE 4 analog); and   GLHGFHVH (SEQ ID NO: 7, DSE7).   
   
    
    [0051]
     In another disclosure the invention comprises novel modified isolated peptides comprising RLA[Cysteic acid]GVIGI (SEQ ID NO:8, DSE1a), where cysteine residue is cysteic acid. 
     
    
    [0052]
     In related disclosures, these peptides are provided in labeled form, or as conjugates or fusions e.g. "immunogens" useful to raise antibodies or detect SOD1 and for other diagnostic and therapeutic uses. Such immunogens comprise the peptides coupled, for instance, to KLH or to MAP antigen. 
     
    
    [0053]
     Certain disclosures relate to a method of i) eliciting an immune response in a subject and/or ii) treating a medical condition, disease, or disorder mediated by a misfolded form of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in a subject in need of treatment, by comprising administering a composition comprising a nucleic acid that encodes for an isolated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific immunogen (e.g. peptide) of the invention in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier to the subject. Of course, such nucleic acids will encode only those forms of the epitopes and peptides that consist of genetically encoded amino acids, but the nucleic acids may also yield, endogenously, analogs of the encoded epitopes that, after being expressed as such, become modified in vivo such as by nitration, oxidation, carbonylation and the like by the endogenous environment. Suitable RNA and DNA nucleotide sequences are set out in this application (other DNA sequences having sequence identity or synonymous codon equivalents are also useful in the methods). Examples of medical conditions, diseases, or disorders include ALS, Parkinson's Disease, Lewy Body Disease or Alzheimer's Disease. 
     
    
    [0054]
     Disclosed is a method for i) increasing immunological clearing of SOD aggregates, ii) reducing SOD1 aggregation mediated by misfolded SOD1, and/or iii) reducing SOD1 template directed misfolding, comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle and an agent selected from (1) an isolated exogenous antibody that binds selectively to the misfolded form of SOD, and/or (2) an immunogen that elicits production of an endogenous antibody that binds selectively to the monomer or misfolded form of SOD, and/or (3) a nucleic acid sequence encoding (1) or (2). 
     
    
    [0055]
     Disclosed is a method for treating a medical condition, disease, or disorder mediated by a misfolded form of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in a subject in need of treatment, the method comprising administering to the subject in need of treatment an agent (such as an exogenous antibody or immunogen (e.g. peptide) disclosed herein that i) causes immunological clearing of SOD aggregates, ii) reduces SOD1 aggregation mediated by misfolded SOD1 and/or iii) reduces SOD1 template directed misfolding. Also disclosed are methods of treating medical conditions, diseases, or disorders described herein by administering to a subject an effective amount of an antibody specific for epitopes described herein that are selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1. 
     
    
    [0056]
     Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description. 
   
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES 
 
   
    
    [0057]
     Embodiments of the invention will be described in relation to the drawings in which:
         Figure 1  is a graph demonstrating that anti-DSE1a antibody preferentially recognizes DSE1a over DSE1.     Figure 2  is a graph illustrating ELISA data showing that anti-DSE2 antibody recognizes oxidized SOD1 protein.     Figure 3A  is an antigenicity plot of SOD1 using the Hopp and Woods method.     Figure 3B  is an antigenicity plot of SOD1 using the Kolaskar and Tongaonkar method.     Figure 4A  is an immunoblot showing that DSE2 recognizes denatured human and mouse SOD1.     Figure 4B  is an immunoblot of immunoprecipitated SOD1 from normal human and murine brain demonstrating that anti-DSE2 antibody does not immunoprecipitate native SOD1.     Figure 4C  is an immunoblot of immunoprecipitated SOD1 from transgenic mice overexpressing wild-type and mutant human SOD1.     Figure 5A  is a human brain section of normal hippocampus in a 52-year-old female stained with an antibody to DSE2.     Figure 5B  is a composite of human hippocampus sections from a 78-year-old female with late-stage Alzheimer's disease probed with anti-DSE2 monoclonal antibody.     Figure 6  (A-F) is a composite of brain sections from a 79-year old female with dementia probed with anti-DSE2 monoclonal antibody.   
 
 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 
 
   
    
    [0058]
     Disclosed are immunotherapeutic compositions and methods which specifically target toxic SOD1 species, including those SOD1 confomers which may be associated with neurodegenerative diseases, such as ALS, AD and PD, by identifying and taking therapeutic advantage of immunological epitopes (antibody binding sites) exposed on the molecular surface of misfolded and aggregated SOD1. These epitopes are not presented in native, normally-folded SOD1. Disclosed are previously-unknown epitopes that are useful as targets to design compounds or elicit antibodies for therapy or diagnostics. Also disclosed are immunotherapeutic use of epitopes previously identified as presented in misfolded and aggregated forms of SOD1 but not presented in native forms of SOD1 (see 3 and    WO 2005/019828   ). These epitopes are useful targets for passive or active immunotherapy to prevent disease progression. Without wishing to be bound by theory, these epitopes prevent disease progression by immunological clearing or sequestering of toxic SOD1 aggregates, blocking the SOD1 template-directed misfolding process, neutralizing the toxic effect of these misfolded SOD1 species on neurons, and/or inhibition of oxidative stress mediated by misfolded SOD1. 
   
 Compositions and Uses of the Disease Specific Epitopes 
 
   
    
    [0059]
     The inventors have determined that there are epitopes selectively presented by, or accessible on, monomeric SOD1 or misfolded forms of SOD1 in monomeric, dimeric or aggregated forms, but not on the native, properly-folded homodimeric form of SOD1. The misfolded forms of SOD1 are characterized by the adoption of a conformation, particularly a secondary or tertiary conformation that is different from the conformation adopted by a wild type SOD1 dimer, and/or participates in the formation of SOD1 aggregates that are characteristic of SOD1 disorders including neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Such misfolded SOD1 can have a wild type sequence or a mutated sequence. In certain embodiments, the epitopes are those selectively presented by or accessible on misfolded SOD1 having a wild type, or native, sequence. In other embodiments, the epitopes are these selectively presented by or accessible on misfolded SOD1 having mutated or non-wild type sequence. In other embodiments, the epitope is presented by SOD1 monomer (in any form including wild type, mutant, misfolded and native), and becomes accessible on the SOD1 monomer upon dissociation of the monomer from the SOD1 homodimer. Immunological recognition of only misfolded SOD1 will reduce or eliminate autoimmune manifestations caused by antibody binding to normal native SOD1. Immunological recognition of misfolded SOD1 that is wild type, in particular, will be useful particularly in the treatment of sporadic ALS 
     
    
    [0060]
     The term "SOD1" as used herein means superoxide dismutase-1 and includes all analog and mutant forms from all species, particularly human SOD1 (i.e. hSOD1) and is optionally referred to as SOD. The amino acid sequence of human SOD1 (e.g. UniProtKB/TrEMBL Accession Number Q6NR85; Genbank Accession number CAG46542; SEQ ID NO:17 ) and the mRNA nucleotide sequence (e.g. Genbank Accession number NM_000454; SEQ ID NO:18) of human SOD1 have been previously characterized. 
     
    
    [0061]
     "Wild type" refers to the primary amino acid sequence of a native or non-mutant protein, and wild type SOD1 refers to SOD1, and particularly human SOD1, which may be optionally referred to as hSOD1, having a native or naturally occurring amino acid sequence. The amino acid sequence of human SOD1 is provided in SEQ ID NO:17 and the nucleic acid sequence is provided in SEQ ID NO:18. "Wild type" can also refer to the normal native structure of a specific protein (e.g. the atomic level coordinates of the crystal structure of native dimeric SOD1 protein is available at Protein Data Bank Accession Number 1PUO). Wild type folded SOD1 is optionally referred to as "natively folded" SOD1, "normally folded" SOD1 and/or "properly folded" SOD1. 
     
    
    [0062]
     "Mutant SOD" refers to forms of SOD, and particularly endogenous forms of SOD, that occur as a result of genetic mutation that result for instance in amino acid substitution, such as those substitutions characteristic for instance of familial ALS. Such substitutions include those listed in Table 1. 
     
    
    [0063]
     "Misfolded" as used herein refers to the secondary and tertiary structure of a protein, and indicates that the protein has adopted a conformation that is not normal for that protein in its properly functioning state. Although misfolding can be caused by mutations in a protein, such as amino acid deletion, substitution, or addition, wild-type sequence protein can also be misfolded in disease, and expose disease-specific epitopes for instance, as a result of microenvironmental conditions and/or amino acid modification such as nitration, oxidation, carbonylation or other modification. 
     
    
    [0064]
     In certain embodiments, in the case where the non-native SOD1 is a mutant SOD1 such as a form of SOD1 that comprises sequence variations characteristic of familial ALS, the non-native SOD1 mutant is other than a mutant where one or more of the amino acids A4, G37, G85, or G93 is mutated. 
     
    
    [0065]
     An "epitope" as used herein means a region of a protein that is recognized by a B cell or T-cell receptor, or an antibody or a binding fragment thereof. The epitope is optionally represented herein by the linear amino acid sequence or the region of the protein recognized by the antibody. The "isolated peptides corresponding to an epitope" are optionally themselves referred to as an "epitope". 
     
    
    [0066]
     An epitope is "accessible" in the context of the present specification when it is accessible to binding by an antibody or a binding fragment thereof. A disease-specific epitope of the invention may be partially or completely exposed on the molecular surface of a misfolded protein in a form accessible to antibody binding, and partially or completely obscured from antibody recognition in the natively folded isoform of the protein. Said epitope is presented or accessible selectively in a misfolded or non-native conformation of a protein and not presented or accessible in the native conformation of the protein. "Selectively presented or accessible" is used contextually, to indicate that the referenced epitope is available for binding to an antibody or other binding protein in misfolded SOD1 and not available for antibody binding in native forms of SOD1. The disease-specific epitope is sufficiently different from a corresponding portion of native, properly-folded SOD1 (ie. SOD1 having normal, non-pathogenic SOD1 activity), usually in terms of its conformation, so that an antibody can bind selectively to the epitope. 
     
    
    [0067]
     An epitope comprises one or more antigenic determinants. For example an antibody generated against an isolated peptide corresponding to a specific disease-specific epitope recognizes part or all of said epitope sequence. Accordingly, in one embodiment a part of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope presented or accessible in misfolded SOD1 that retains an antigenic determinant is used to raise antibodies to said epitope. 
     
    
    [0068]
     When referring to epitopes of SOD1 selectively presented in ALS the epitopes are optionally referred to as ALS-specific epitopes; when referring to epitopes selectively presented in Alzheimer's disease, the epitopes are optionally referred to as AD-specific epitopes and similarly when referring to epitopes selectively presented in Parkinson's disease, the epitopes are optionally referred to as PD-specific epitopes for ease of reference to the named disease. However it is understood that ALS-specific epitopes of SOD1 are not limited to ALS, but are optionally presented in other neurodegenerative diseases such as AD and PD; AD-specific epitopes of SOD1 are not limited to AD, but are optionally presented in other neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS and PD; and PD-specific SOD1 epitopes are not limited to PD, but are optionally presented in other neurodegenerative diseases such as AD and ALS. Epitopes that are accessible selectively on forms of SOD1 that are associated with SOD1-mediated conditions, diseases and disorders are optionally referred to as disease specific epitopes. 
     
    
    [0069]
     An epitope may be selectively recognized by an antibody in one conformation of a protein and not in a second conformation of the protein. "Selective" is used contextually, to characterize the binding properties of an antibody. An antibody that binds selectively to a given epitope will bind to that epitope either with greater avidity or with more specificity, relative to other, different epitopes presented by the same molecule. For example, an antibody selectively binds a disease specific epitope if it binds misfolded SOD1 in which the disease-specific epitope is accessible, two fold more efficiently than it binds native SOD1 wherein the disease-specific epitope is not accessible. In other embodiments, the antibody binds 3-5 fold, 5-7 fold, 7-10, 10-15, 5-15, or 5-30 fold more efficiently. 
     
    
    [0070]
     Epitopes that are "disease specific", in the context of the present specification, are epitopes that are presented or accessible selectively by one or more misfolded forms of SOD1 that are characteristic of a particular disease or of a disease category. 
     
    
    [0071]
     Because of the SOD1 disease specificity of these epitopes, they are useful targets to treat SOD1 mediated disorders, diseases and conditions such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease or to elicit an immune response in an animal. For example, vaccination of subjects diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease with a composition comprising isolated peptides corresponding to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes or Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes, respectively, inhibits SOD1 aggregate formation in the disease by blocking participation of misfolded SOD1 molecular species in the aggregation process and/or by blocking SOD1 templated directed misfolding, or by inducing immune complex-based clearing of antibody-bound forms of the misfolded neurotoxic SOD1 and/or aggregates. 
     
    
    [0072]
     The epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 are found in SOD1 associated with neurodegenerative diseases and are useful to treat, diagnose or prevent misfolded-SOD1 related diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
     
    
    [0073]
     The term "epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1" as used herein refers to an epitope that is selectively presented or accessible on monomeric SOD1 or misfolded SOD1 in monomeric, dimeric or aggregated forms, but not on the molecular surface of the native, correctly folded, homodimeric form of SOD1. In other terms, the epitopes can be characterized as those giving rise to antibodies that bind selectively to forms of SOD1 associated with misfolded-SOD1 related diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, relative to the native homodimeric form of SOD1. 
     
    
    [0074]
     The following 7 epitopes have been identified as epitopes selectively presented or accessible in in non-native forms of SOD1:
       RLACGVIGI (SEQ ID NO:1, DSE1);   DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (SEQ ID NO:2, DSE2)(   WO 2005/019828   );   NPLSRKHGGPKDEE (SEQ ID NO:3, DSE3)(   WO 2005/019828   );   IKGLTEGLHGF (SEQ ID NO:5, DSE5) (8);   HCIIGRTLVVH (SEQ ID NO:6, DSE6) (8)   KAVCVLK (SEO ID NO:4, DSE4); and   GLHGFHVH (SEQ ID NO:7, DSE7).   
   
    
    [0075]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 can be all or part of the above sequences. The term "part of" as used herein refers to the sequence that retains the epitope activity of binding an antibody selective for non-native forms of SOD1 and wherein the antibody is optionally generated by immunization with an isolated peptide corresponding to said epitope in an animal. Also disclosed are analogs of the above sequences, such as RLA[Cysteic Acid]GVIGI (DSE1a), which has an oxidized cysteine. 
     
    
    [0076]
     The term "Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope" as used herein refers to an epitope that is selectively present or accessible on monomeric SOD1 or misfolded SOD1 in monomeric, dimeric or aggregated form, but not on the native homodimeric form of SOD1. In other terms, the epitopes can be characterized as those wherein immunization with an immunogen comprising isolated peptides corresponding to said epitopes gives rise to antibodies that bind selectively to Alzheimer's disease-associated forms of SOD1, relative to the native homodimeric form of SOD1. 
     
    
    [0077]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope can be all or part of the above sequences. The term "part of" as used herein refers to the sequence that retains the epitope activity of binding an antibody selective for non-native forms of SOD1 wherein the antibody is optionally generated by immunization with an isolated peptide corresponding to all or part of said epitope in an animal. Also disclosed are analogs of the above sequences. 
     
    
    [0078]
     The term "Parkinson's disease-specific epitope" as used herein refers to an epitope that is present or accessible on monomeric SOD1 or misfolded SOD1 in monomeric, dimeric or aggregated form, but not on the native homodimeric form of SOD1. In other terms, the epitopes can be characterized as those wherein immunization with an immunogen comprising isolated peptides corresponding to said epitopes gives rise to antibodies that bind selectively to Parkinson's disease-associated forms of SOD1, relative to the native homodimeric form of SOD1. 
     
    
    [0079]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the Parkinson's disease-specific epitope can be all or part of the above sequences. The term "part of" as used herein refers to the sequence that retains the epitope activity of binding an antibody selective for non-native forms of SOD1 wherein the antibody is optionally generated by immunization with an isolated peptide corresponding to said epitope in an animal. Also disclosed are analogs of the above sequences. 
     
    
    [0080]
     The term "amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope" as used herein refers to an epitope that is selectively present or accessible on monomeric SOD1 or misfolded SOD1 in monomeric, dimeric or aggregated form, but not on the native homodimeric form of SOD1. In other terms, the epitopes can be characterized as those giving rise to antibodies that bind selectively to ALS-associated forms of SOD1, relative to the native homodimeric form of SOD1. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope can be all or part of the above sequences. The term "part of" as used herein refers to the sequence that retains the epitope activity of binding an antibody selective for non-native forms of SOD1 wherein the antibody is optionally generated by immunization with an isolated peptide corresponding to said epitope in an animal. Also disclosed are analogs of the above sequences. 
     
    
    [0081]
     The term "analog" as used herein includes parts, extensions, substitutions, variants, modifications or chemical equivalents and derivatives thereof of the amino acid and nucleotide sequences disclosed herein that perform substantially the same function as the peptide, protein or nucleic acid molecules disclosed herein in substantially the same way. For example, analogs of peptides and proteins include, without limitation, conservative amino acid substitutions. Analogs of peptides also include cysteic acid modification of an amino acid, as in RLAC*GVIGI (DSE1 a). For example, an amino acid is optionally acetylated (Ac-). Analogs of the peptides and proteins also include additions and deletions to the peptides and proteins disclosed herein. Analogs of nucleic acids include degenerate nucleotide substitutions that encode an isolated peptide as disclosed herein. In addition, analog peptides and analog nucleotide sequences include derivatives thereof. 
     
    
    [0082]
     A "conservative amino acid substitution", as used herein, is one in which one amino acid residue is replaced with another amino acid residue without abolishing the peptide's desired properties. 
     
    
    [0083]
     The term "derivative of a peptide" refers to a peptide having one or more residues chemically derivatized by reaction of a functional side group. Such derivatized molecules include for example, those molecules in which free amino groups have been derivatized to form amine hydrochlorides, p-toluene sulfonyl groups, carbobenzoxy groups, t-butyloxycarbonyl groups, chloroacetyl groups or formyl groups. Free carboxyl groups may be derivatized to form salts, methyl and ethyl esters or other types of esters or hydrazides. Free hydroxyl groups may be derivatized to form O-acyl or O-alkyl derivatives. The imidazole nitrogen of histidine may be derivatized to form N-im-benzylhistidine. Also included as derivatives are those peptides which contain one or more naturally occurring amino acid derivatives of the twenty standard amino acids. For examples: 4-hydroxyproline may be substituted for proline; 5-hydroxylysine may be substituted for lysine; 3-methylhistidine may be substituted for histidine; homoserine may be substituted for serine; and ornithine may be substituted for lysine. A derivative of a peptide also optionally includes peptides comprising forms of amino acids that are oxidized. 
     
    
    [0084]
     Oxidative stress can lead to damage to cellular protein, DNA and lipids. Oxidative stress has been reported in AD and PD (64). The inventors have shown that antibodies selective for DSE1 a comprising an oxidized cysteine in the form cysteic acid, has high affinity for misfolded SOD1. Other amino acids can also be oxidized or nitrated as a result of oxidative stress. For example histidine, arginine and lysine can form carbonyl groups, methionine may be oxidized to methionesulfoxide and phenylalanine can by nitrated to nitrotryptophan. Additionally cysteine can be oxidized to cysteine sulfinic acid. 
     
    
    [0085]
     Accordingly, the epitopes in one embodiment comprise one or more oxidized or nitrated amino acids. In specific embodiments of the invention, the SOD1 epitope may comprise an oxidized or nitrated amino acid, particularly oxidized cysteine, i.e., cysteic acid. 
     
    
    [0086]
     The isolated peptides corresponding to epitopes selectively presented in non-native SOD1, in one embodiment comprise one or more oxidized or nitrated amino acids. In specific embodiments of the invention, the SOD1 epitope may comprise an oxidized or nitrated amino acid, particularly oxidized cysteine, i.e., cysteic acid. 
     
    
    [0087]
     The isolated peptides corresponding to epitopes which are useful in the present invention thus are optionally peptides that incorporate sequence corresponding to contiguous amino acid stretches within the human SOD1 sequence that form epitopes selectively accessible either only in the monomeric forms of SOD, or in any form of SOD1 that has misfolded or is non-native. Epitopes that have been identified as selectively accessible in non-native SOD1 comprise the following amino acid streteches in hSOD1:
       RLACGVIGI (SEQ ID NO: 1 at SOD1 SEQ ID NO:17 residues 143-151) DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (SEQ ID NO: 2 at SOD1 SEQ ID NO:17 residues 125-142);   NPLSRKHGGPKDEE; (SEQ ID NO: 3 at SOD1 SEQ ID NO:17 residues 65-78);   IKGLTEGLHGF (SEQ ID NO: 5 at SOD1 SEQ ID NO:17 residues 35-42);   HCIIGRTLVVH (SEQ ID NO: 6 at SOD1 SEQ ID NO:17 residues 110-120);   KAVCVLK (SEQ ID NO: 4 at SOD1 SEQ ID NO:17 residues 3-9); and   GLHGFHVH (SEQ ID NO: 7 at SOD1 SEQ ID NO:17 residues 41-48)   
   
    
    [0088]
     To serve as a useful immunogen either for active immunotherapy or to raise antibodies for use for instance in passive immunotherapy, the peptide desirably incorporates a minimum of about 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 SOD1 disease specific epitope residues. In one embodiment, the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope desirably comprises at least 8 SOD1 residues. The peptide will be accommodated within a SOD1 stretch that is less than 20 residues. Disclosed is the use of peptides comprising an even larger portion of SOD1, possibly resulting in multiple antibodies, requiring selection for those that bind selectively to an epitope characteristic of misfolded SOD1. 
     
    
    [0089]
     SOD1 sequences useful to be targeted in accordance with the present disclosure include the hSOD1 regions incorporating residues 3-9, residues 35-45, residues 41-48, residues 65-78, residues 125-142, residues 143-151 and residues 145-151. As noted, such peptide sequence corresponding to misfolded SOD1 epitopes can be truncated to incorporate a minimum of any 5, 6, or 7 residues from the regions noted. For example DSE1, having sequence RLACGVIGI can be truncated by removing the first two amino acids "RL". In addition, these regions can be extended, as noted, to incorporate additional flanking SOD1 residues to a maximum number of residues that strikes any desired balance between the cost of peptide or vaccine production and the desired specificity and other properties of the resulting antibody. 
     
    
    [0090]
     In one disclosure, the isolated peptide corresponding to a disease specific epitope comprises all or part of the sequence of an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0091]
     The peptides corresponding to these epitopes can further comprise additional non-SOD1 amino acid residues particularly at the N- and C-terminal flanks thereof, which may be useful in conjugating the peptide with an agent useful for instance in eliciting an immune response, or an agent serving as a tag useful in the production of the peptide or to monitor its presence. For instance, the peptide may further comprise an N-terminal Cys residue to assist with coupling to KLH or the like. The peptide may further comprise one, two, three or more flanking glycine residues, or a glycine/serine or glycine/lysine combination such as GSG or GGKG, to improve the immune response by increasing the length of the peptide without changing the specificity of antibodies that are formed. The peptide corresponding to the epitope may further comprise a linker effective to couple the peptide tandemly to another copy of the same or a different peptide corresponding to the same or a different epitope. Alternatively, the peptide corresponding to an epitope may further comprise a polyhistidine or Flag tag. In another embodiment, the peptides may comprise additional amino acids that enhance the immunogenecity or solubility of the peptide. In one embodiment, the additional amino acids number from 1 to about 10, preferably 1 to 8, more preferably 1 to 5. Importantly the additional residues do not materially affect the conformation of the peptide. In one disclosure, the isolated peptide corresponding to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises 6 additional amino acids and comprises the sequence GGRLACGVIGIGGKG. In another disclosure, the isolated peptide corresponding to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises 4 additional amino acids and comprises the sequence GGRLACGVIGIAQ. 
     
    
    [0092]
     In one disclosure, the analog amino acid sequences of the isolated peptide corresponding to disease specific epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 typically have at least: 60%, 70%, 80% or 90% sequence identity to the above sequences. In another disclosure, the analog amino acid sequences of the isolated peptide corresponding to ALS-specific epitopes, PD-specific epitopes or AD-specific epitopes have at least: 60%, 70%, 80% or 90% sequence identity to the above sequences. The term "sequence identity" as used herein refers to the percentage of sequence identity between two polypeptide sequences. In order to determine the percentage of identity between two polypeptide sequences, the amino acid sequences of such two sequences are aligned, preferably using the Clustal W algorithm (9), together with BLOSUM 62 scoring matrix (10) and a gap opening penalty of 10 and gap extension penalty of 0.1, so that the highest order match is obtained between two sequences wherein at least 50% of the total length of one of the sequences is involved in the alignment. Other methods that may be used to align sequences are the alignment method of Needleman and Wunsch (11), as revised by Smith and Waterman (12) so that the highest order match is obtained between the two sequences and the number of identical amino acids is determined between the two sequences. Other methods to calculate the percentage identity between two amino acid sequences are generally art recognized and include, for example, those described by Carillo and Lipton (13) and those described in Computational Molecular Biology (14). Generally, computer programs will be employed for such calculations. Computer programs that may be used in this regard include, but are not limited to, GCG (15) BLASTP, BLASTN and FASTA (16). 
     
    
    [0093]
     Thus, while the preferred epitope targets comprise sequence that is found in hSOD1, disclosed are analogs of these epitope sequences that, as noted above, include, derivatives, extensions, truncations, modified amino acids and the like. Such forms of the isolated peptides corresponding to disease specific epitopes are embraced by the term "analogs". Such analogs are also useful to raise antibodies that will bind to the epitopes present on misfolded or monomeric SOD, for instance, to one of the seven epitopes identified hereinabove. 
     
    
    [0094]
     Thus, relative to the preferred epitopes identified above, useful isolated peptides corresponding to an epitope analogs, include isolated peptides that comprise but are not limited to:
       For RLACGVIGI:
   N-terminal truncation of R or RL; N-terminal extension with G or GG or acetyl-GG and/or C-terminal extension with G, GG, GGK or GGKG, for instance to arrive at acetyl-RLACGVIVIVGGKG; with or without oxidation of C to yield cysteic acid, to arrive at AC*GVIVIVG, including CGGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG; RLAC*GVIGIGSG and CRLAC*GVIGIGSG; (wherein C* denotes cysteic acid)       For DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS; 
N-terminal truncation of D, DL, DLG, DLGK and/or C-terminal truncation of S, GS, AGS, NAGS; N-terminal extension with C or with G, GG or GGG; C-terminal extension with G, GG, GS or GSG; for instance to arrive at CDLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS, with or without internal modification by carbonylation of one or two K residues, for instance; and including such peptides as LGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAG, GKGGNEESTKTGNAGS, DLGKGGNEESTKTGNA, KGGNEESTKTGNAGS, DLGKGGNEESTKTGN, GGNEESTKTGNAGS, DLGKGGNEESTKTG, LGKGGNEESTKTGNAG, GKGGNEESTKTGNA, or KGGNEESTKTGN.   For NPLSRKHGGPKDEE; 
N-terminal truncation of N, NP, NPL and/or C-terminal truncation of E, EE, DEE; N-terminal extension with C or with G, GG or GGG; C-terminal extension with G, GG, GS or GSG; for instance to arrive at 
CNPLSRKHGGPKDEE, with or without internal modification by carbonylation of one or two H residues, for instance;   For IKGLTEGLHGF; 
N-terminal addition of C, to arrive at CIKGLTEGLHGF   And for HCIIGRTLVVH; 
N-terminal truncation of H or HC and/or C-terminal truncation of H, or VH, N-terminal extension to include SOD sequence at residues 109 or 108/109 and/or to include G, GG, or GGG and/or C-terminal extension by one or two SOD residues such as residues 121 or 121/122, for instance to arrive at GGGHCIIGRTLVVHGSG   
   
    
    [0095]
     Examples of the above described peptides are summarized in Table 2A. 
   
 Table 2A. Isolated DSE Peptides and Analogs 
 
   
    
    [0096]
     
     
 ACGVIGI (SEQ ID NO:9, DSE1 analog); 
 Ac-GG-RLACGVIG-GGKG (SEQ ID NO:10, DSE1 analog); 
 CDLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (SEQ ID NO: 11, DSE2 analog); 
 CNPLSRKHGGPKDEE (SEQ ID NO:12; DSE3 analog); 
 CIKGLTEGLHGF (SEQ ID NO:14, DSE5 analog); 
 RLA[Cysteic acid]GVIGI (SEQ ID NO: 8, DSE1a); 
 A[Cysteic acid]GVIGI (SEQ ID NO: 13, DSE1a analog); 
 C-GGG- RLA[Cysteic acid]GVIGI- GSG (SEQ ID NO: 15, DSE1a analog); and GSGKAVCLK (SEQ ID NO: 16, DSE 4 analog). 
 
   
    
    [0097]
     As noted above, disclosed is a DSE1 epitope, an isolated peptide corresponding to the epitope and an antibody directed against the epitope. Experiments further characterized DSE1. The inventors prepared antibodies directed against epitopes found on non-native forms of SOD1. The inventors detected misfolded SOD1 from the spinal tissues of G85R, G93A and G37R ALS mouse models by immunoprecipitation using the SED1 antibody. The inventors also detected misfolded SOD1 in spinal sections from G93A, G37R ALS mouse models and from a human patient with ALS, using the SED1 antibody as a probe. The inventors used SED1 to determine the subcellular localiztion of misfolded SOD1 where it was determined that the major site of misfolded SOD1 deposition is vacuolated mitochondria within the motor neurons of the ventral horn. Further, misfolded SOD1 was detected in both the mitochondrial and cytoplasmic spinal cord fractions but only minor amounts were immunoprecipitated from similar fractions from liver and brain tissues of G93A mouse. In G85R mice, misfolded SOD1 was enriched in spinal cord and brain mitochondria compared to the amount recovered from the cytosol. The inventors also showed that misfolded SOD1 was initially absent but was detected prior to disease onset and correlates with motor neuron loss in ALS model mice. 
     
    
    [0098]
     In the case where the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope per se or its analog is not sufficiently immunogenic, even when administered with standard adjuvants, the isolated peptide or isolated peptide analog can be administered in the form of an "immunogen", in which the isolated peptide corresponding to the epitope or analog is fused to or conjugated with an agent that enhances the immunogenicity of the peptide. Thus, the immunogenicity or effectiveness of the composition to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and/or Parkinson's disease or elicit an immune response can also be enhanced by conjugating the isolated peptide corresponding to a disease specific epitope (e.g. such as an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope) either directly, such as through an amide bond, or indirectly through a chemical linker such as carbodiimide or any peptide spacer sequence such as a glycine or glycine-serine sequence including Gly4-S, to a molecule that enhances the immunogenicity of the peptide corresponding to the epitope. For example, an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope can be conjugated to MAP antigen, or keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). KLH is a respiratory protein found in mollusks. Its large size makes it very immunogenic, and the large number of lysine residues available for conjugation make it very useful to attach to a polypeptide, such as an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope. Conjugation of KLH can be done through an N-terminal Cys residues added to the isolated peptide corresponding to the epitope, if no other convenient site is available on the peptide for KLH conjugation. 
     
    
    [0099]
     Thus, the composition for eliciting an immune response may comprise an immunogen. An "immunogen" as used herein means a substance which provokes an immune response and/or causes production of an antibody. In addition to the isolated peptides, conjugates and fusions described herein, peptide mimetics which elicit cross-reactive antibodies to disease specific epitopes of SOD1 are useful (see 82). 
     
    
    [0100]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be other epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, such as other amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, other Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes, and/or other Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes. For example, other disease specific epitopes may be identified using the epitope protection assay described in    WO 2005/019828   . In another example, other disease specific epitopes may be identified using the method disclosed in Khare et al. (8). Furthermore, useful epitopes can be identified as those presenting selectively in SOD1 that is denatured, or SOD1 that is subjected to denaturing conditions such as chaotropic agents, heat, pH extremes, or detergents known to those practiced in the art, or otherwise treated to induce adoption of a misfolded conformation, relative to a pH neutral control SOD1. 
     
    
    [0101]
     Disclosed is a method of identifying disease specific epitopes in disease associated non-native proteins. The rationale for selecting disease specific epitopes is based on several considerations. The selected linear peptide epitopes should be obscured in an antibody inaccessible state in the normal isoform of the targeted protein, but exposed at the surface in the disease-misfolded isoform such that the linear peptide epitopes may be bound by an antibody specific for the normally obscured epitope. Other considerations include the predicted or experimentally defined role of the defined specific epitope in the formation of aggregates, and the adequate length and immunogenicity of a peptide corresponding to the epitope as a target for immunization or immunotherapy, The optimal disease specific epitopes benefit from the safety of immune response against a non-native antigen, with minimization of autoimmunity and the comparative effectiveness of minimal adjuvant regimens for therapeutic vaccines. The optimal disease-specific epitopes also benefit from the efficacy of neutralization and inhibition of the toxic and template-directed activity of misfolded proteins by antibody binding. Neutralization may also accelerate the degradation of the misfolded protein species by systems such as the reticulo-endothelial system and by the resident CNS immune effector cells such as microglia. 
   
 Compositions Comprising Epitopes For Treating SOD1 Mediated Neurodegenerative Diseases 
 
   
    
    [0102]
     Disclosed is a composition for treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in a non-native form of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier.The term "Isolated peptide" refers to peptide that has been produced, for example, by recombinant or synthetic techniques, and removed from the source that produced the peptide, such as recombinant cells or residual peptide synthesis reactants. The isolated peptide is optionally "purified", which means at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% purity and optionally pharmaceutical grade purity. 
     
    
    [0103]
     An "isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope" as used herein refers to the produced peptide that comprises the epitope or a region of the epitope and is the same or similar in sequence to a disease specific epitope in non-native SOD1. "Epitope" is optionally used to refer to the produced isolated peptide that corresponds to the epitope on SOD1 selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1. 
     
    
    [0104]
     In the case where the isolated peptide corresponding to disease specific epitope, per se is not sufficiently immunogenic, even when administered with standard adjuvants, the isolated peptide can be administered in the form of an immunogen, in which the isolated peptide is fused to or conjugated with an agent that enhances the immunogenicity of said peptide. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in a non-native form of SOD1 comprising all or part of a Table 2 or Table 2A isolated peptide referenced herein above. 
     
    
    [0105]
     As used herein, the property of inhibiting or reducing SOD1 aggregate formation is revealed as a reduction in the formation rate, number or size of neurotoxic SOD1 aggregates, as revealed using assays established for this purpose, and as exemplified herein. 
     
    
    [0106]
     Disclosed is a composition useful for treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable, diluent or carrier, such as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. In other disclosures, the isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises the sequence of a Table 2 or Table 2A isolated peptide referenced above. 
     
    
    [0107]
     As used herein, the phrase "treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis" as used herein includes inhibiting the disease, preventing the disease or reducing the symptoms associated with the disease. 
   
 Compositions Comprising Epitopes for Eliciting Immune Response 
 
   
    
    [0108]
     Disclosed is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of an isolated epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. Disclosed is the epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 comprising an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0109]
     Disclosed is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier, wherein the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0110]
     The phrase "eliciting an immune response" is defined as initiating, triggering, causing, enhancing, improving or augmenting any response of the immune system, for example, of either a humoral or cell-mediated nature. The initiation or enhancement of an immune response can be assessed using assays known to those skilled in the art including, but not limited to, antibody assays (for example ELISA assays), antigen specific cytotoxicity assays and the production of cytokines (for example ELISPOT assays). 
     
    
    [0111]
     The composition for eliciting an immune response may comprise an immunogen. An "immunogen" as used herein means a substance which provokes an immune response and/or causes production of an antibody. Disclosed is the immunogen comprising an isolated peptide selected from the isolated peptides provided in Table 2 or Table 2A. Disclosed is the isolated peptide being conjugated to a suitable carrier such as KLH. In addition to the isolated peptides described herein, peptide mimetics which elicit cross-reactive antibodies to disease specific epitopes of SOD1 are useful. The term "animal" or "subject" as used herein includes all members of the animal kingdom including mammals, preferably humans. 
     
    
    [0112]
     As used herein, the phrase "effective amount" means an amount effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve a desired result. Effective amounts may vary according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex, weight of the animal. Dosage regime may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. 
   
 Pharmaceutical Compositions Comprising Isolated Peptides Corresponding to Disease Specific Epitopes 
 
   
    
    [0113]
     The compositions described herein can be prepared by per se known methods for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable compositions that can be administered to subjects, optionally as a vaccine, such that an effective quantity of the active substance is combined in a mixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. Suitable vehicles are described, for example, in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences (17). On this basis, the compositions include, albeit not exclusively, solutions of the substances in association with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles or diluents, and contained in buffered solutions with a suitable pH and iso-osmotic with the physiological fluids. 
     
    
    [0114]
     Pharmaceutical compositions include, without limitation, lyophilized powders or aqueous or non-aqueous sterile injectable solutions or suspensions, which may further contain antioxidants, buffers, bacteriostats and solutes that render the compositions substantially compatible with the tissues or the blood of an intended recipient. Other components that may be present in such compositions include water, surfactants (such as Tween), alcohols, polyols, glycerin and vegetable oils, for example. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders, granules, tablets, or concentrated solutions or suspensions. The composition may be supplied, for example but not by way of limitation, as a lyophilized powder which is reconstituted with sterile water or saline prior to administration to the patient. 
     
    
    [0115]
     Pharmaceutical compositions may comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include essentially chemically inert and nontoxic compositions that do not interfere with the effectiveness of the biological activity of the pharmaceutical composition. Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers include, but are not limited to, water, saline solutions, glycerol solutions, ethanol, N-(1(2,3-dioleyloxy)propyl)N,N,N-trimethylammonium chloride (DOTMA), diolesylphosphotidyl-ethanolamine (DOPE), and liposomes. Such compositions should contain a therapeutically effective amount of the compound, together with a suitable amount of carrier so as to provide the form for direct administration to the patient. 
     
    
    [0116]
     The composition may be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt which includes, without limitation, those formed with free amino groups such as those derived from hydrochloric, phosphoric, acetic, oxalic, tartaric acids, etc., and those formed with free carboxyl groups such as those derived from sodium, potassium, ammonium, calcium, ferric hydroxides, isopropylamine, triethylamine, 2-ethylarnino ethanol, histidine, procaine, etc. 
     
    
    [0117]
     Immunogenicity can be significantly improved if the immunizing agent(s) or immunogen (e.g. isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope or a fusion or conjugate thereof with an immune enhancing agent) and/or composition is, regardless of administration format, co-immunized with an adjuvant. Commonly, adjuvants are used as a 0.05 to 1.0 percent solution in phosphate - buffered saline. Adjuvants enhance the immunogenicity of an immunogen but are not necessarily immunogenic themselves. Adjuvants may act by retaining the immunogen locally near the site of administration to produce a depot effect facilitating a slow, sustained release of immunogen to cells of the immune system. Adjuvants can also attract cells of the immune system to an immunogen depot and stimulate such cells to elicit immune responses. As such, embodiments of this invention encompass compositions further comprising adjuvants. 
     
    
    [0118]
     Adjuvants have been used for many years to improve the host immune responses to, for example, vaccines. Intrinsic adjuvants (such as lipopolysaccharides) normally are the components of killed or attenuated bacteria used as vaccines. Extrinsic adjuvants are immunomodulators which are typically non-covalently linked to antigens and are formulated to enhance the host immune responses. Thus, adjuvants have been identified that enhance the immune response to antigens delivered parenterally. Some of these adjuvants are toxic, however, and can cause undesirable side effects making them unsuitable for use in humans and many animals. Indeed, only aluminum hydroxide, aluminum sulfate and aluminum phosphate (collectively commonly referred to as alum) are routinely used as adjuvants in human and veterinary vaccines. Alum may be used with immunostimulating agents such as MPL or 3-DMP; QS21; and monomeric or polymeric amino acids such as polyglutamic acid or polylysine. The efficacy of alum in increasing antibody responses to diphtheria and tetanus toxoids is well established. Notwithstanding, it does have limitations. For example, alum is ineffective for influenza vaccination and inconsistently elicits a cell mediated immune response with other immunogens. The antibodies elicited by alum-adjuvanted antigens are mainly of the IgG1 isotype in the mouse, which may not be optimal for protection by some vaccinal agents. 
     
    
    [0119]
     A wide range of extrinsic adjuvants can provoke potent immune responses to immunogens. These include saponins such as Stimulons (QS21, Aquila, Worcester, Mass.) or particles generated therefrom such aas ISCOMs and (immunostimulating complexes) and ISCOMATRIX, complexed to membrane protein antigens (immune stimulating complexes), pluronic polymers with mineral oil, killed mycobacteria and mineral oil, Freund's complete adjuvant, bacterial products such as muramyl dipeptide (MDP) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS), as well as lipid A, and liposomes. 
     
    
    [0120]
     In one aspect of this invention, adjuvants useful in any of the embodiments of the invention described herein are as follows. Adjuvants for parenteral immunization include aluminum compounds (such as aluminum hydroxide, aluminum phosphate, and aluminum hydroxy phosphate). The antigen can be precipitated with, or adsorbed onto, the aluminum compound according to standard protocols. Other adjuvants such as RIBI (ImmunoChem, Hamilton, MT) can also be used in parenteral administration. 
     
    
    [0121]
     Adjuvants for mucosal immunization include bacterial toxins (e.g., the cholera toxin (CT), the E. coli heat-labile toxin (LT), the Clostridium difficile toxin A and the pertussis toxin (PT), or combinations, subunits, toxoids, or mutants thereof). For example, a purified preparation of native cholera toxin subunit B (CTB) can be of use. Fragments, homologs, derivatives, and fusion to any of these toxins are also suitable, provided that they retain adjuvant activity. Preferably, a mutant having reduced toxicity is used. Suitable mutants have been described (e.g., in    WO 95/17211    (Arg-7-Lys CT mutant),    WO 96/6627    (Arg-192-Gly LT mutant), and    WO 95/34323    (Arg-9-Lys and Glu-129-Gly PT mutant)). Additional LT mutants that can be used in the methods and compositions of the invention include, for example Ser-63-Lys, Ala-69-Gly, Glu-110-Asp, and Glu-112-Asp mutants. Other adjuvants (such as a bacterial monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) of various sources (e.g., E. coli, Salmonella minnesota, Salmonella typhimurium, or Shigella flexneri, saponins, or polylactide glycolide (PLGA) microspheres) can also be used in mucosal administration. 
     
    
    [0122]
     Other adjuvants include cytokines such as interleukins for example IL-1, IL-2 and IL-12, chemokines, for example CXCL10 and CCL5, macrophage stimulating factor, and/or tumor necrosis factor. Other adjuvants that may be used include CpG oligonucleotides ( Davis. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol., 247:171-183, 2000 ). 
     
    
    [0123]
     Oil in water emulsions include squalene; peanut oil; MF59 (   WO 90/14387   ); SAF (Syntex Laboratories, Palo Alto, Calif.); and Ribi™ (Ribi Immunochem, Hamilton, Mont.). Oil in water emulsions may be used with immunostimulating agents such as muramyl peptides (for example, N-acetylmuramyl-L-threonyl-D-isoglutamine (thr-MDP), -acetyl-normuramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine (nor-MDP), N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamyl-L-alanine-2-(1'-2'dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-hydroxyphosphoryloxy)-ethylamine (MTP-PE), N-acetylglucsaminyl-N-acetylmuramyl-L-Al-D-isoglu-L-Ala-dipalmitoxy propylamide (DTP-DPP) theramide(TM)), or other bacterial cell wall components. 
     
    
    [0124]
     Adjuvants useful for both mucosal and parenteral immunization include polyphosphazene (for example,    WO 95/2415   ), DC-chol (3 b-(N-(N',N'-dimethyl aminomethane)-carbamoyl) cholesterol (for example,    U.S. Patent No. 5,283,185    and    WO 96/14831   ) and QS-21 (for example,    WO 88/9336   ). 
     
    
    [0125]
     An adjuvant may be coupled to an immunogen for administration ( Livingston. J Immunol., 159: 1383-1392, 1997 ). For example, a lipid such as palmitic acid, may be coupled directly to one or more peptides such that the change in conformation of the peptides comprising the immunogen does not affect the nature of the immune response to the immunogen. 
     
    
    [0126]
     The choice of an adjuvant may depend on a number of factors including the route of administration, the efficacy of the adjuvant, the dosing regimen, the stability of the vaccine containing the adjuvant and the species being vaccinated. The adjuvant may be administered with an immuogen as a single composition. Further, an adjuvant may be administered before, concurrent or after administration of the immunogen. 
     
    
    [0127]
     The immunogenicity or effectiveness of the composition to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and/or Parkinson's disease or elicit an immune response can also be enhanced by conjugating the the isolated peptide corresponding to a disease specific epitope (e.g. such as an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope) either directly, such as through an amide bond, or indirectly through a chemical linker such as carbodiimide or any peptide spacer sequence such as a glycine or glycine-serine sequence including Gly4-S, to a molecule that enhances the immunogenicity of the epitope. For example, an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope can be conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). KLH is a respiratory protein found in mollusks. Its large size makes it very immunogenic, and the large number of lysine residues available for conjugation make it very useful to attach to an protein, such as an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope. 
     
    
    [0128]
     Other guidance on peptide vaccination technique is found in the work showing that a disease-specific epitope for misfolded prion protein (6) provides a target for prion-infected neuroblastoma cells  in vitro  (7), and that peptide vaccination of mice with this epitope is protective against inoculation of infectious prions. 
     
    
    [0129]
     Isolated peptides corresponding to the epitopes or analogs thereof selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific, Alzheimer's disease-specific and Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes are readily prepared using a variety of methods known to one skilled in the art. Accordingly, peptides that correspond to disease specific epitopes such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes may be prepared by chemical synthesis using techniques well known in the chemistry of proteins such as solid phase synthesis (18) or synthesis in homogenous solution (19). 
     
    
    [0130]
     Peptides corresponding to the epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific, Alzheimer's disease-specific and Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes may also be produced by recombinant DNA technology. To prepare peptides corresponding to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes by recombinant DNA techniques, a DNA sequence encoding the peptide corresponding to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope must be prepared. Consequently, disclosed is the use of purified and isolated nucleic acids comprising a nucleotide sequence coding for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or to elicit an immune response. 
     
    
    [0131]
     In one disclosure the nucleic acid sequence encoding the peptides corresponding to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 is incorporated into an expression vector adapted for transfection or transformation of a host cell. In another disclosure the nucleic acid sequence encoding the peptides corresponding to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes is incorporated into an expression vector adapted for transfection or transformation of a host cell.. The nucleic acid molecules may be incorporated in a known manner into an appropriate expression vector which ensures expression of the protein. Possible expression vectors include but are not limited to cosmids, plasmids, or modified viruses (e.g. replication defective retroviruses, adenoviruses and adeno-associated viruses). The vector should be compatible with the host cell used. The expression vectors are "suitable for transformation of a host cell", which means that the expression vectors contain a nucleic acid molecule encoding the peptides corresponding to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes and Parkinson's disease specific epitopes, and regulatory sequences selected on the basis of the host cells to be used for expression, which is operatively linked to the nucleic acid molecule. "Operatively linked" is intended to mean that the nucleic acid is linked to regulatory sequences in a manner which allows expression of the nucleic acid. 
     
    
    [0132]
     Suitable regulatory sequences may be derived from a variety of sources, including bacterial, fungal, viral, mammalian, or insect genes (For example, see the regulatory sequences described in Goeddel (20)). Selection of appropriate regulatory sequences is dependent on the host cell chosen as discussed below, and may be readily accomplished by one of ordinary skill in the art. Examples of such regulatory sequences include: a transcriptional promoter and enhancer or RNA polymerase binding sequence, a ribosomal binding sequence, including a translation initiation signal. Additionally, depending on the host cell chosen and the vector employed, other sequences, such as an origin of replication, additional DNA restriction sites, enhancers, and sequences conferring inducibility of transcription may be incorporated into the expression vector. 
     
    
    [0133]
     The recombinant expression vectors may also contain a marker gene which facilitates the selection of host cells transformed or transfected with a recombinant molecule disclosed herein. Examples of selectable marker genes are genes encoding a protein such as G418 and hygromycin which confer resistance to certain drugs, β-galactosidase, chloramphenicol acetyltransferase, firefly luciferase, or an immunoglobulin or portion thereof such as the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin preferably IgG. Transcription of the selectable marker gene is monitored by changes in the concentration of the selectable marker protein such as β-galactosidase, chloramphenicol acetyltransferase, or firefly luciferase. If the selectable marker gene encodes a protein conferring antibiotic resistance such as neomycin resistance transformant cells can be selected with G418. Cells that have incorporated the selectable marker gene will survive, while the other cells die. This makes it possible to visualize and assay for expression of recombinant expression vectors disclosed herein and in particular to determine the effect of a mutation on expression and phenotype. It will be appreciated that selectable markers can be introduced on a separate vector from the nucleic acid of interest. 
     
    
    [0134]
     Recombinant expression vectors can be introduced into host cells to produce a transformant host cell. The term "transformant host cell" is intended to include prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells which have been transformed or transfected with a recombinant expression vector encoding the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes. The terms "transformed with", "transfected with", "transformation" and "transfection" are intended to encompass introduction of nucleic acid (e.g. a vector) into a cell by one of many possible techniques known in the art. Prokaryotic cells can be transformed with nucleic acid by, for example, electroporation or calcium-chloride mediated transformation. Nucleic acid can be introduced into mammalian cells via conventional techniques such as calcium phosphate or calcium chloride co-precipitation, DEAE-dextran mediated transfection, lipofectin, electroporation or microinjection. Suitable methods for transforming and transfecting host cells can be found in Sambrook et al. (21), and other laboratory textbooks. 
     
    
    [0135]
     Suitable host cells include a wide variety of prokaryotic and eukaryotic host cells. For example, the proteins of the invention may be expressed in bacterial cells such as E. coli, insect cells (using baculovirus), yeast cells or mammalian cells. Other suitable host cells can be found in Goeddel (20). 
     
    
    [0136]
     More particularly, suitable bacterial host cells include E. coli, B. subtilis, Salmonella typhimurium, and various species within the genus Pseudomonas, Streptomyces, and Staphylococcus, as well as many other bacterial species well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Suitable bacterial expression vectors preferably comprise a promoter which functions in the host cell, one or more selectable phenotypic markers, and a bacterial origin of replication. Representative promoters include the β-lactamase (penicillinase) and lactose promoter system (see Chang et al. (22)), the trp promoter (23) and the tac promoter (24). Representative selectable markers include various antibiotic resistance markers such as the kanamycin or ampicillin resistance genes. Suitable expression vectors include but are not limited to bacteriophages such as lambda derivatives or plasmids such as pBR322 (see Bolivar et al. (25)), the pUC plasmids pUC18, pUC19, pUC118, pUC119 (see Messing (26) and Vieira and Messing (27)), and pNH8A, pNH16a, pNH18a, and Bluescript M13 (Stratagene, La Jolla, Calif.). Typical fusion expression vectors which may be used are discussed above, e.g. pGEX (Amrad Corp., Melbourne, Australia), pMAL (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) and pRIT5 (Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ). Examples of inducible non-fusion expression vectors include pTrc (28) and pET 11 d (29). 
     
    
    [0137]
     Suitable yeast and fungi host cells include, but are not limited to Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, the genera Pichia or Kluyveromyces and various species of the genus Aspergillus. Examples of vectors for expression in yeast S. cerivisiae include pYepSec1 (30), pMFa (31), pJRY88 (32), and pYES2 (Invitrogen Corporation, San Diego, CA). Protocols for the transformation of yeast and fungi are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art (see Hinnen et al. (33); Itoh et al. (34), and Cullen et al. (35). 
     
    
    [0138]
     Suitable mammalian cells include, among others: COS (e.g., ATCC No. CRL 1650 or 1651), BHK (e.g. ATCC No. CRL 6281), CHO (ATCC No. CCL 61), HeLa (e.g., ATCC No. CCL 2), 293 (ATCC No. 1573) and NS-1 cells. Suitable expression vectors for directing expression in mammalian cells generally include a promoter (e.g., derived from viral material such as polyoma,  Adenovirus  2, cytomegalovirus and Simian Virus 40), as well as other transcriptional and translational control sequences. Examples of mammalian expression vectors include pCDM8 (36) and pMT2PC (37). 
     
    
    [0139]
     Given the teachings provided herein, promoters, terminators, and methods for introducing expression vectors of an appropriate type into plant, avian, and insect cells may also be readily accomplished. For example, the proteins disclosed herein may be expressed from plant cells (see Sinkar et al. (38)), which reviews the use of Agrobacterium rhizogenes vectors; see also Zambryski et al. (39), which describes the use of expression vectors for plant cells, including, among others, pAS2022, pAS2023, and pAS2034). 
     
    
    [0140]
     Suitable insect cells include cells and cell lines from Bombyx or Spodotera species. Baculovirus vectors available for expression of proteins in cultured insect cells (SF 9 cells) include the pAc series (40) and the pVL series (41). Some baculovirus-insect cell expression systems suitable for expression of recombinant proteins are described in    PCT/US/02442   . 
     
    
    [0141]
     The recombinant expression vectors containing the nucleotide sequences encoding the peptide corresponding to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, Alzheimer's disease specific epitopes and Parkinson's disease specific epitopes may also contain genes which encode a fusion moiety (i.e. a "fusion protein") which provides increased expression of the recombinant peptide; increased solubility of the recombinant peptide; and aid in the purification of the target recombinant peptide by acting as a ligand in affinity purification. For example, a proteolytic cleavage site may be added to the target recombinant protein to allow separation of the recombinant protein from the fusion moiety subsequent to purification of the fusion protein. Typical fusion expression vectors include pGEX (Amrad Corp., Melbourne, Australia), pMAL (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) and pRIT5 (Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ) which fuse glutathione S-transferase (GST), maltose E binding protein, or protein A, respectively, to the recombinant protein. 
   
 Nucleic Acid Compositions for Treating SOD1 Mediated Neurodegenerative Diseases 
 
   
    
    [0142]
     Disclosed is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of a nucleic acid encoding an peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier, wherein the peptide corresponds to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 selected from the group consisting of the peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0143]
     Disclosed isolated nucleic acids encoding the peptides corresponding to the epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 include the following RNA molecules, synonymous codon equivalents thereof, and their DNA counterparts and complements:
       For RLACGVIGI;
   AGGUUAGCUUGUGGUGUUAUAGGUAUA(SEQ ID NO: 19).       For DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS;
             For NPLSRKHGGPKDEE;
   AAUCCUUUAAGUCGUAAACACGGAGGACCGAAGGACGAGGAG (SEQ ID NO: 21).       For IKGLTEGLHGF;
   AUAAAGGGGAAAACAGAAGGACUCCACGGCUUU(SEQ ID NO: 22).       For HCIIGRTLVVH;
   CACUGUAUUAUUGGCAGGACCCUCGUUGUUCAC (SEQ ID NO: 23).       
   
    
    [0144]
     Other useful nucleic acids include:
       For RLACGVIGI (DSE1: 143-151);
   CGUUUGGCUUGUGGUGUAAUUGGGAUC (SEQ ID NO: 24).       For ACGVIGI (DSE1: 145-151);
   GCUUGUGGUGUAAUUGGGAUC (SEQ ID NO: 25).       For DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2: 125-142);
             For NPLSRKHGGPKDEE (DSE3: 65-78);
   AAUCCUCUAUCCAGAAAACACGGUGGGCCAAAGGAUGAAGAG (SEQ ID NO: 27).       For KAVCVLK (DSE4: 3-9);
   AAGGCCGUGUGCGUGCUGAAG (SEQ ID NO: 28).       For IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5: 35-45);
   AUUAAAGGACUGACUGAAGGCCUGCAUGGAUUC (SEQ ID NO: 29).       For HCIIGRTLVVH (DSE6: 110-120);
   CAUUGCAUCAUUGGCCGCACACUGGUGGUCCAU (SEQ ID NO: 30).       For GLHGFHVH (DSE7: 41-48);
   GGCCUGCAUGGAUUCCAUGUUCAU (SEQ ID NO: 31).       
The nucleic acids are referred to herein as "Table 2C nucleic acids".
       
    
    [0145]
     Disclosed is a composition for treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject comprising an effective amount of an isolated nucleic acid that encodes for an isolated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier, wherein the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0146]
     Disclosed is a composition for eliciting an immune response in an animal comprising an effective amount of an isolated nucleic acid encoding an isolated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier, wherein the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0147]
     Disclosed isolated nucleic acids encoding the peptides corresponding to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes include the following RNA molecules, synonymous codon equivalents thereof, and their DNA counterparts listed in Table 2C nucleic acids. 
     
    
    [0148]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that there are several modes of administration available when using a composition containing an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, including an isolated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, an isolated Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope and an isolated Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. The recombinant molecules described above may be directly introduced into cells or tissues  in vivo  using delivery vehicles such as retroviral vectors, adenoviral vectors and DNA virus vectors. They may also be introduced into cells  in vivo  using physical techniques such as microinjection and electroporation or chemical methods such as coprecipitation and incorporation of DNA into liposomes. Recombinant molecules may also be delivered in the form of an aerosol or by lavage. The nucleic acid molecules disclosed herein may also be applied extracellularly such as by direct injection into cells. 
   
 Method of Medical Treatment of Disease using Nucleic Acids 
 
   
    
    [0149]
     Vectors containing the nucleic acid molecules disclosed herein are optionally administered to the CNS of mammals, preferably humans, in gene therapy using techniques described below. The polypeptides produced from the nucleic acid molecules are readily administered to the CNS of mammals, preferably humans. The disclosure relates to a method of medical treatment of a mammal, preferably a human, by administering to the mammal a vector of the invention or a cell containing a vector disclosed herein. Neural diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are treated as described in this application or using methods known in the art (   US Patent Nos. 7175840   ,    7157098   ,    7141044   ,    6,309,634   ;    6936594   ;    US Application Nos. 2006073119   ;    2004265283   ;    2002107213   ;    2006122116   ). Diseases, such as blood diseases or neural diseases (neurodegenerative), are treated as described in this application and known in the art Stem cell nerve diseases to be treated by neural stem cell transplantation include diseases resulting in neural cell damage or loss, eg. paralysis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, ALS, multiple sclerosis). The vector of the invention is useful as a stem cell marker and to express genes that cause stem cells to differentiate (e.g. growth factor). 
   
 Methods of Treatment Using Isolated Peptides Corresponding to Disease Specific Epitopes 
 
   
    
    [0150]
     One aspect of the invention is the compositions of the invention for use in treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject in need thereof. 
     
    
    [0151]
     Disclosed is a method of treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. 
     
    
    [0152]
     Disclosed is the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprising an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
   
 Methods of treatment Using Isolated Nucleic acids 
 
   
    
    [0153]
     Disclosed is a method of treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject an isolated nucleic acid that encodes for a peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. In certain disclosures the nucleic acids comprise nucleic acids selected from the group of Table 2C nucleic acids. 
     
    
    [0154]
     In one disclosure, the epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0155]
     Disclosed is a method of treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a nucleic acid that encodes for a peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. In one disclosure the nucleic acid comprises a nucleic acid selected from the group of Table 2C nucleic acids. 
     
    
    [0156]
     In a further disclosure, the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0157]
     Disclosed is a method for treating a subject having a medical condition, disease, or disorder mediated by a misfolded form of superoxide dismutase (SOD), the method comprising the step of administering to the subject a composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle and an agent selected from (1) an antibody that binds selectively to the misfolded form of SOD, and/or (2) an immunogen that elicits production of said antibody by said subject, and/or (3) a nucleic acid sequence encoding (1) or (2). 
   
 Methods of Eliciting an Immune Response Using an Isolated Peptide Corresponding to a Disease Specific Epitope 
 
   
    
    [0158]
     The disclosed compositions can be used to elicit an immune response in an animal and can be used in methods to elicit an immune response in an animal against an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native SOD1, including the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, Alzheimer's disease specific epitope or Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. 
     
    
    [0159]
     Disclosed is a method of eliciting an immune response in an animal using one of the compositions of the invention. 
     
    
    [0160]
     Disclosed is a method of eliciting an immune response in an animal, using a composition comprising an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 being a peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0161]
     Disclosed is a method of eliciting an immune response in an animal, using a composition comprising an isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope being an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
   
 Method of Eliciting an Immune Response Using an Isolated Nucleic Acid 
 
   
    
    [0162]
     Disclosed is a method of eliciting an immune response in an animal, using a composition comprising a nucleic acid that encodes for an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope comprising an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0163]
     Disclosed is a method of eliciting an immune response in an animal, using a composition comprising a nucleic acid that encodes for an isolated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope being an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
   
 Use of An Isolated Peptide Corresponding to a Disease Specific Epitope in the Manufacture of a Medicament 
 
   
    
    [0164]
     Disclosed is the use of an isolated isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in the manufacture of a medicament to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope comprising an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
   
 Use of an Isolated Nucleic Acid in the Manufacture of a Medicament 
 
   
    
    [0165]
     Disclosed is the use of an isolated nucleic acid that encodes for a peptide that corresponds to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in the manufacture of a medicament to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope comprising an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0166]
     As described above, immunogenicity and thus the effectiveness of a vaccine can be significantly improved if the immunizing agent (e.g. isolated isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1) and/or compositions thereof are co-immunized with an adjuvant. Accordingly, the disclosed methods and uses include the use of an adjuvant. 
   
 Use of Isolated Nucleic Acids Correspodning to Disease Specific Epitopes to Treat SOD1 Mediated Neurodegenerative Diseases. 
 
   
    
    [0167]
     Disclosed is the use of an isolated nucleic acid that corresponds to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Disclosed is the use of an isolated nucleic acid that encodes a peptide that corresponds to a disease specific epitope. Disclosed is the nucleic acid encoding a peptide that corresponds to a disease specific epitope that comprises a peptide selected from the group consisting of peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0168]
     Disclosed is the use of an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Disclosed is the isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope comprising an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
   
 Compositions and Uses of Binding Agents Specific for the Disease Specific Epitopes Agents that bind disease specific epitopes 
 
   
    
    [0169]
     Epitopes presented on misfolded SOD1 may be bound and/or neutralized by a number of different natural or engineered agents such as antibodies, other polypeptides, small molecules, affibodies ( Wahlberg et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 100:3185-3190, 2003 ); anticalins ( Schlehuber and Skerra, Biophys Chem., 96:213-28, 2002 ); and nuleic acid and protein aptamers ( Cullen et al. Cell, 58: 423-466, 1989 ). In certain disclosures the agent is an antibody that selectively binds a disease specific epitope or an analog thereof presented or accessible on non-native SOD1. 
   
 Generating Antibodies 
 
   
    
    [0170]
     The epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 can be used to make antibodies. Disclosed are antibodies specific for misfolded SOD1 molecules, preferably misfolded SOD1 molecules associated with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
     
    
    [0171]
     In one disclosure, the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes can be used to make antibodies specific for the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes. In a disclosure, the antibodies are specific for the misfolded SOD1 molecules. In other disclosures, the antibodies are isolated antibodies. 
     
    
    [0172]
     In another disclosure, the isolated antibody specific for the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope is made by administering one of the compositions disclosed herein to an animal. 
     
    
    [0173]
     Another disclosure includes an isolated antibody for an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, wherein the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0174]
     The term "antibody" as used herein is intended to include monoclonal antibodies including chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, humanized antibodies, human antibodies, and chimeric antibodies. The antibody may be from recombinant sources and/or produced in transgenic animals. The term "antibody fragment" as used herein is intended to include Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , scFv, dsFv, ds-scFv, dimers, minibodies, diabodies, and multimers thereof and bispecific antibody fragments. Antibodies can be fragmented using conventional techniques. For example, F(ab') 2  fragments can be generated by treating the antibody with pepsin. The resulting F(ab') 2  fragment can be treated to reduce disulfide bridges to produce Fab' fragments. Papain digestion can lead to the formation of Fab fragments. Fab, Fab' and F(ab') 2 , scFv, dsFv, ds-scFv, dimers, minibodies, diabodies, bispecific antibody fragments and other fragments can also be synthesized by recombinant techniques. The antibodies are optionally in any useful isotype, including IgM which in one embodiment is used for diagnostic applications and IgG, such as IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 which in one embodiment is used for therapeutic applications. 
     
    
    [0175]
     "Isolated antibody" refers to antibody produced in vivo or in vivo that has been removed from the source that produced the antibody, for example, an animal, hybridoma or other cell line (such as recombinant cells that produce antibody). The isolated antibody is optionally "purified", which means at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% purity and optionally pharmaceutical grade purity. 
     
    
    [0176]
     "Endogenous antibody" refers to antibody produced by a subject, such as a mammal (eg. human), as part of an immune response in the subject. 
     
    
    [0177]
     "Exogenous antibody" refers to an antibody that is non-self or foreign to a subject, such as a mammal (eg. human). The term "exogenous antibody" encompasses isolated antibody as well as isolated and purified antibody.To produce monoclonal antibodies, antibody producing cells (lymphocytes) can be harvested from a subject immunized with an immunogen comprising an isolated peptide corresponding to a misfolded SOD1-specific epitope, including an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope, an Alzheimer's disease specific epitope or a Parkinson's disease specific epitope, and fused with myeloma cells by standard somatic cell fusion procedures thus immortalizing these cells and yielding hybridoma cells. Such techniques are well known in the art, (e.g. the hybridoma technique originally developed by Kohler and Milstein (42) as well as other techniques such as the human B-cell hybridoma technique (43), the EBV-hybridoma technique to produce human monoclonal antibodies (44), and screening of combinatorial antibody libraries (45). Hybridoma cells can be screened immunochemically for production of antibodies specifically reactive with the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes and the monoclonal antibodies can be isolated. 
     
    
    [0178]
     Specific antibodies, or antibody fragments, reactive against particular antigens or molecules, such as epitopes selectively presented or accessible in misfolded forms of SOD1, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes, Alzheimer's disease specific epitopes or Parkinson's disease specific epitopes may also be generated by screening expression libraries encoding immunoglobulin genes, or portions thereof, expressed in bacteria with cell surface components. For example, complete Fab fragments, VH regions and FV regions can be expressed in bacteria using phage expression libraries (see for example Ward et al. (46); Huse et al. (45); and McCafferty et al. (47)). 
     
    
    [0179]
     The term "humanized antibody" as used herein means that the antibody or fragment comprises human conserved framework regions (alternatively referred to as constant regions) and the hypervariable regions (alternatively referred to as the antigen binding domain) are of non-human origin. For example, the hypervariable region may be from a mouse, rat or other species. The humanization of antibodies from non-human species has been well described in the literature. See for example    EP- B1  0 239400    and  Carter & Merchant 1997 (Curr Opin Biotechnol 8, 449-454, 1997 ). Humanized antibodies are also readily obtained commercially (eg. Scotgen Limited, 2 Holly Road, Twickenham, Middlesex, Great Britain.) 
     
    
    [0180]
     Humanized forms of rodent antibodies are readily generated by CDR grafting ( Riechmann et al. Nature, 332:323-327, 1988 ). In this approach the six CDR loops comprising the antigen binding site of the rodent monoclonal antibody are linked to corresponding human framework regions. CDR grafting often yields antibodies with reduced affinity as the amino acids of the framework regions may influence antigen recognition ( Foote & Winter. J Mol Biol, 224: 487-499, 1992 ). To maintain the affinity of the antibody, it is often necessary to replace certain framework residues by site directed mutagenesis or other recombinant techniques and may be aided by computer modeling of the antigen binding site ( Co et al. J Immunol, 152: 2968-2976, 1994 ). 
     
    
    [0181]
     Humanized forms of antibodies are optionally obtained by resurfacing ( Pedersen et al. J Mol Biol, 235: 959-973, 1994 ). In this approach only the surface residues of a rodent antibody are humanized. 
     
    
    [0182]
     The term "human antibodies" as used herein refers to antibodies that are, or correspond to, antibodies that are produced endogenously in a human subject, however, human antibodies are also optionally produced exogenously through biochemical techniques. Human antibodies specific to a particular antigen may be identified by a phage display strategy ( Jespers et al. Bio/Technology, 12: 899-903, 1994 ). In one approach, the heavy chain of a rodent antibody directed against a specific antigen is cloned and paired with a repertoire of human light chains for display as Fab fragments on filamentous phage. The phage is selected by binding to antigen. The selected human light chain is subsequently paired with a repertoire of human heavy chains for display on phage, and the phage is again selected by binding to antigen. The result is a human antibody Fab fragment specific to a particular antigen. In another approach, libraries of phage are produced were members display different human antibody fragments (Fab or Fv) on their outer surfaces (   Dower et al., WO 91/17271    and    McCafferty et al., WO 92/01047   ). Phage displaying antibodies with a desired specificity are selected by affinity enrichment to a specific antigen. The human Fab or Fv fragment identified from either approach may be recloned for expression as a human antibody in mammalian cells. 
     
    
    [0183]
     Human antibodies are optionally obtained from transgenic animals (   US Patent Nos. 6,150,584   ;    6,114,598   ; and    5,770,429   ). In this approach the heavy chain joining region (J H ) gene in a chimeric or germ-line mutant mouse is deleted. Human germ-line immunoglobulin gene array is subsequently transferred to such mutant mice. The resulting transgenic mouse is then capable of generating a full repertoire of human antibodies upon antigen challenge. 
     
    
    [0184]
     Humanized or human antibodies are selected from any class of immunoglobulins including: IgM, IgG, IgD, IgA or IgE; and any isotype, including: IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4. The humanized or human antibody may include sequences from one or more than one isotype or class. Further, these antibodies are typically produced as antigen binding fragments such as Fab, Fab' F(ab') 2 , Fd, Fv and single domain antibody fragments, or as single chain antibodies in which the heavy and light chains are linked by a spacer. Also, the human or humanized antibodies may exist in monomeric or polymeric form. The humanized antibody optionally comprises one non-human chain and one humanized chain (i.e. one humanized heavy or light chain). 
     
    
    [0185]
     Additionally, antibodies specific for the epitopes of the invention are readily isolated by screening antibody phage display libraries. For example, an antibody phage library is optionally screened by using a disease specific epitope of the current invention to identify antibody fragments specific for the disease specific epitope. Antibody fragments identified are optionally used to produce a variety of recombinant antibodies that are useful with different embodiments of the present invention. Antibody phage display libraries are commercially available, for example, through Xoma (Berkeley, California) Methods for screening antibody phage libraries are well known in the art. 
     
    
    [0186]
     Also disclosed are antibodies that selectively compete with antibodies raised using an immunogen comprising an isolated peptide from Table 2 and Table 2A and analogs thereof. Competition assays are performed to provide a method of determining whether a test antibody displaces an antibody described herein, comprising contacting an epitope presented in a non-native form of SOD1 with a test antibody and an antibody raised using an immunogen comprising an isolated peptide from Table 2, Table 2A or analogs thereof and next determining whether the test antibody selectlvely displaces the antibody disclosed herein from binding the epitope. The test antibody is considered to selectively displace the antibody disclosed herein if the test antibody has at least 1.5 times or at least 2 times greater binding affinity for the epitope. 
     
    
    [0187]
     These antibodies specific for epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 can be used to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In one embodiment, the antibodies of the invention can be used to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. For example, passive infusion of antibodies specific for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope may inhibit SOD1 aggregate formation and/or may block SOD1 template directed misfolding. 
   
 Compositions Comprising Antibodies 
 
   
    
    [0188]
     An additional aspect of the invention is a composition to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis comprising an effective amount of an antibody specific for an epitope consisting of DSE5 or DSE7 or an analog consisting of DSE5 or DSE7, the analog comprising modification or an amino acid by oxidation or nitration in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. Disclosed is the epitope comprising an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0189]
     One aspect of the invention is a composition to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis comprising an effective amount of an antibody specific for an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope consisting of DSE5 or DSE7 or an analog consisting of DSE5 or DSE7, the analog comprising modification or an amino acid by oxidation or nitration in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. 
     
    
    [0190]
     In one embodiment, the antibodies are humanized antibodies. In another embodiment, the antibodies are administered into the blood or spinal fluid of a subject with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
     
    
    [0191]
     Disclosed are methods and uses of the antibodies to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
   
 Method of treatment: Passive Immunization 
 
   
    
    [0192]
     Disclosed is a method of treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject an antibody that binds to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier. 
     
    
    [0193]
     In addition to antibodies, epitopes presented on misfolded SOD1 may be bound and/or neutralized by a number of different natural or engineered agents such as other polypeptides, small molecules, affibodies ( Wahlberg et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 100:3185-3190, 2003 ); anticalins ( Schlehuber and Skerra, Biophys Chem., 96:213-28, 2002 ); and nuleic acid and protein aptamers ( Cullen et al. Cell, 58: 423-466, 1989 ). 
     
    
    [0194]
     Affibodies are engineered binding proteins based on the three-helix scaffold of the Z domain derived from staphylococcal protein A ( Wahlberg et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 100:3185-3190, 2003 ). The Z domain consists of 58 residues that bind to the Fc portion of IgG from different species ( Nygren and Uhlen. Curr Opin Struct Biol., 7:463-469, 1997 ). By simultaneously randomizing 13 amino acid positions located at the two helices making up the Fc-binding face of the Z domain, a library of binding proteins (affibodies) are created and used to screen for binding to desired targets by phage display technology ( Nord, et al. Protein Eng., 8:601-608, 1995 ;  Nord et al. Nat Biotechnol. 15:772-777, 1997 ). Affibodies have a secondary structure similar to the native Z domain and have micromolar range dissociation constants (KD) for their respective targets ( Nord et al. Nat Biotechnol., 15:772-777, 1997 ). 
     
    
    [0195]
     Anticalins are a class of engineered ligand-binding proteins derived from the lipocalin protein scaffold ( Schlehuber and Skerra, Biophys Chem., 96:213-28, 2002 ;  Weiss and Lowman. Chem. Biol., 7:R177-R184, 2000 ;  Skerra. J Biotechnol., 74:257-275, 2001 ). The process of preparing anticalins is described in    EP1017814   . The ligand-binding site of anticalins may be re-engineered by amino acid substitutions, or other recombinant approaches, to alter the binding specificity of the protein. Anticalins are similar to antibodies in that they possess high affinity and specificity for their prescribed ligands. However, anticalins have a number of advantages over antibodies including a smaller size; single peptide composition; and a binding site that is easily manipulated. 
     
    
    [0196]
     Aptamers are short single-stranded DNA oligonucleotides, RNA oligonucleotides or polypeptides with the capacity to recognize various target molecules with high affinity and specificity ( Cullen et al. Cell, 58: 423-466, 1989 ). Aptamers are optionally identified by an in vitro evolution and selection process called SELEX (systemic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment), and methods for obtaining aptamers specific for a polypeptide of interest are known in the art. See, e.g.,  Brody E N, Gold L. J Biotechnol. 2000 March; 74(1):5-13 . Methods for efficient selection of aptamers that bind to any polypeptide of interest are described in    U.S. Pub. No. 20050142582   . 
     
    
    [0197]
     Like antibodies, aptamers assume a specific and stable three-dimensional shape in vivo, which provides for specific binding to target molecules and elicit a biological response. Further, the binding affinities of aptamers are analogous to that of antibodies (reviewed in  Nimjee et al. Annu Rev Med, 56: 555 - 83, 2005 ). Aptamers have a number of advantages over antibodies including stability at 80°C, long shelf life, low immunogenicity ( Retina, 22: 143-152, 2002 ), low inter-batch variability, broad tissue distribution due to their small size, readily modified to alter its tissue distribution and clearance properties, e.g. by pegylation ( Tucker et al. J Chromatogr B Biomed Sci Appl, 732: 203-212, 1999 ). 
     
    
    [0198]
     In a disclosure, the epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
   
 Use of antibodies to treat disease 
 
   
    
    [0199]
     Disclosed is the use of an antibody that binds to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in admixture with a suitable diluent or carrier to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In a disclosure, the epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
   
 Use of antibody in manufacture of a medicament 
 
   
    
    [0200]
     Disclosed is the use of an antibody that binds to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 in the manufacture of a medicament to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In a disclosure, the epitope comprises an isolated peptide selected from the group consisting of the isolated peptides in Table 2 or Table 2A, or an analog thereof. 
     
    
    [0201]
     The examples below are described solely for the purpose of illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. 
   
 Methods of Administering Compositions 
 
   
    
    [0202]
     The compositions of the invention are readily administered for example, by parenteral, intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, intracranial, intraventricular, intrathecal, intraorbital, ophthalmic, intracapsular, intraspinal, intracisternal, intraperitoneal, intranasal, aerosol or oral administration. 
     
    
    [0203]
     In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is administered systemically. 
     
    
    [0204]
     In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is administered to the directly to the brain or other portion of the CNS. For example such methods include the use of an implantable catheter and a pump, which would serve to discharge a pre-determined dose through the catheter to the infusion site. A person skilled in the art would further recognize that the catheter may be implanted by surgical techniques that permit visualization of the catheter so as to position the catheter adjacent to the desired site of administration or infusion in the brain. Such techniques are described in    Elsberry et al. U.S. Patent 5,814,014    "Techniques of Treating Neurodegenerative Disorders by Brain Infusion". The inventors have also contemplated other methods such as those described in    US patent application 20060129126    (Kaplitt and During "Infusion device and method for infusing material into the brain of a patient". Devices for delivering drugs to the brain and other parts of the CNS are commercially available (eg. SynchroMed ®  EL Infusion System; Medtronic, Minneapolis, Minnesota) 
     
    
    [0205]
     In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is administered to the brain using methods such as modifying the compounds of the invention to allow receptor-mediated transport across the blood brain barrier. 
     
    
    [0206]
     Other embodiments contemplate the co-administration of the compounds of the invention with biologically active molecules known to facilitate the transport across the blood brain barrier. 
     
    
    [0207]
     In another embodiment, the compounds of the invention are reformulated as fusion or chimeric proteins in order to enable their transport across the blood brain barrier. Such technologies are described in US patent    US Pat. 4902505   , "Chimeric peptides for neuropeptide delivery through the blood-brain barrier". 
     
    
    [0208]
     The invention also contemplates additional methods for administering the compounds across the blood brain barrier such as those directed at transiently increasing the permeability of the blood brain barrier as described in    US patent 7012061    "Method for increasing the permeability of the blood brain barrier". 
     
    
    [0209]
     A person skilled in the art will recognize the variety of suitable methods for administering the compounds of the invention directly to the brain or across the blood brain barrier and be able to modify these methods in order to safely administer the products of the invention. 
   
 Doses and Formulations 
 
   
    
    [0210]
     The dosage form is optionally a liquid dosage form. The term "liquid dosage form" refers to non-solid dosage forms suitable for, but not limited to, parenteral, intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, intracranial, intraventricular, intrathecal, intraorbital, ophthalmic, intracapsular, intraspinal, intracisternal, intraperitoneal, intranasal, aerosol or oral administration. Solutions of a compound of the invention can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene glycols, DMSO and mixtures thereof with or without alcohol, and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms. A person skilled in the art would know how to prepare suitable formulations. Conventional procedures and ingredients for the selection and preparation of suitable formulations are described, for example, in  Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences (2003 - 20th editi on) and in  The United States Pharmacopeia: The National Formulary (USP 24 NF19) published in 1999 . Formulations optionally contain excipients including, but not limited to, a buffering agents, an anti-oxidant, a stabilizer, a carrier, a diluent, and an agent for pH adjustment. 
     
    
    [0211]
     The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersion and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. 
     
    
    [0212]
     A person skilled in the art would recognize that the dosage form and formulation chosen depends on characteristics of the composition. For example a person skilled in the art would know that a composition comprising an antibody may require a different formulation than a composition comprising a nucleic acid and would choose a formulation and dosage form suitable to the composition. 
     
    
    [0213]
     Additional factors that affect the effective dose of a formulation include the route of administration, the target site, the physiological state of the subject, the species of the subject, whether the treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic, whether other medications were are administered, and whether an adjuvant is also administered. 
     
    
    [0214]
     The timing of the immunizations optionally vary from once a day, to once a week, to once a month, to once a year, to once a decade. A typical regimen includes an immunization followed by booster injections at 6 weekly intervals. Another regimen consists of immunization followed by  booster injections  1, 2 and 12 months later. Alternatively, booster injections will vary depending on the immune response and the physiological condition of the subject. 
     
    
    [0215]
     For passive immunization using an antibody directed against an epitope derived from a non-native form of SOD1, the dose optionally ranges from about 0.0001 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 0.01 mg/kg to about 5 mg/kg, about 0.15 mg/kg to about 3 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg to about 2 mg/kg and about 1 mg/kg to about 2 mg/kg of the subject's body weight. In other embodiments the dose ranges from about 100 mg/kg to about 5 g/kg, about 500mg/kg to about 2mg/kg and about 750mg/kg to about 1.5 g/kg of the subject's body weght. 
     
    
    [0216]
     For active immunization using immunogens comprising isolated peptides or related molecules corresponding to disease specific epitopes of non-native forms of SOD1, the dose optionally ranges from about 0.0001 microgram to 10 grams, about 0.01 micogram to about 1 gram, about 1 microgram to about 1 mg, and about 100 to 250 micrograms per treatment. In one embodiment the timing of administering treatment is at one or more of the following: 0 months, 2 months, 6 months, 9 months, and/or 12 months. In one regimen, the dosing is at 2, 6, 9, and 12 months following the first immunization. In another regimen, the dosing is at 2 and 4 weeks following the first immunization, and then monthly afterwards. In an alternative regimen, the dosing varies depending on the physiological condition of the subject and/or the response to the subject to prior immunizations. The route of administration optionally includes, but is not limited to, intramuscular and intraperitoneal injections. In one embodiment the composition is injected into the deltoid muscle. 
     
    
    [0217]
     Where an isolated peptide corresponding to an epitope is too small to be immunogenic, or where immunogenicity is improved, the peptide is optionally linked or coupled to a suitable carrier. Suitable carriers include, but are not limited to, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, MAP antigen, serum albumins, immunoglobulin molecules and toxoids from pathogenic bacteria. Peptides may be linked to carriers by chemical crosslinking, for instance to form dendrimers. In the alternative, immunogenic peptides may be expressed as fusion proteins with carriers. 
     
    
    [0218]
     Monoclonal antibodies such as humanized mAb can be used by intravenous infusion. The therapeutic concentration of SOD1 DSE humanized antibody may be 1-10 micrograms per mL local concentration in the CNS. In the setting of a non-disrupted blood brain barrier (BBB) only 1/100 to 1/1000 of IgG penetrates the CNS. Thus, the concentration of therapeutic antibody in the peripheral circulation necessary to reach this concentration in the CNS would be on the order of 100 micrograms/ml to maximally 10 mg/ml, close to the pretreatment level of IgG in human plasma. Considering the human blood volume to be about 5 liters, dosing of 50 grams would be the upper limit, which is similar to the dose of pooled polyclonal intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) used to treat many inflammatory and autoimmune disorders. Considering the degradation of human IgG requires 3-4 weeks, dosing once per 3 weeks should constitute an effective regimen. However, dosing of humanized anti-DSE monoclonal antibodies could be much lower than the above calculation, based on mouse treatment experiments provided in the examples below. We have found that dosing G93A mice intraperitoneally with 1 mg of DSE2 antibody was therapeutically effective. Considering the volume of blood in a mouse is 6-7 mL per 100 grams body weight, circulating concentration of the DSE2 mAb was on the order of 1 mg/mL. For dosing of a human being with ALS, this would translate to 1/10 of the circulating normal IgG (ordinarily about 10 mg/mL). Human blood volume is on the order of 5 liters, which would suggest an effective therapeutic dose of humanized DSE2 antibody on the order of 5 grams via IV infusion. Moreover, mild disruption of the BBB has been noted in ALS, which is presumably maximal in regions of greatest neuroinflammation, i.e., those regions in which the disease is most manifest, such as the anterior horn motor neurons, and the cortical motor neurons, as well as certain fiber tracts that are subserved by cortical motor neurons. Thus, it is possible that selective BBB disruption in regions of maximal disease will permit therapeutic efficacy for lower circulating concentrations of anti-DSE SOD1 antibodies. 
     
    
    [0219]
     Humanized DSE mAbs can be used for direct infusion into the CNS via the intraventricular route or by the intrathecal route. Examples of medical devices which are used for this purpose are manufactured by MedTronic. As the CSF recirculates several times daily, ongoing infusion is required, rather than a 3-4 week dosing regimen. The end concentration of 1-10 micrograms per mL will be achieved by infusion of as much as 5 mg per day in the 500 mL per day CSF. 
   
 Combination Therapies 
 
   
    
    [0220]
     The disclosed methods thus provide for the immunotherapeutic application of SOD1 antibodies in the treatment of conditions, disorders or diseases marked by the presence of misfolded or monomeric SOD1. 
     
    
    [0221]
     The treatment of an afflicted subject can be conducted by monotherapy, in the manner just described, by administering a selected antibody or epitope-based vaccine. In embodiments of the present disclosure, the present method can also be conducted by administering more than one antibody species, or more than one epitope species. For instance, the method can be conducted by administering an antibody to the electrostatic loop structure [DSE 2] and an antibody to an epitope accessible only on the SOD dimer interface [DSE1a]. In one embodiment, the method of the present disclosure is conducted using antibodies that bind selectively to at least two different epitopes accessible selectively on misfolded SOD1, such as a surface epitope on the SOD dimer, and an interface epitope on the SOD monomer. Similarly, the method can be conducted by administering two different epitopes, in the form of vaccines useful to raise antibodies to those two different epitopes on misfolded or monomeric SOD1. In one disclosure, the method entails administration of two or more epitopes, for instance DSE1a and DSE2. In another disclosure, the method entails administration of three or more epitopes, for instance DSE1a, DSE2 and DSE5. Furthermore, the method can be conducted using a combination of both passive immunotherapy and active immunotherapy, in which the subject is treated to receive both a selected antibody and a selected epitope-based vaccine. 
     
    
    [0222]
     The method can also be conducted as a combination therapy in which the selected SOD1 antibody and/or epitope is administered in combination with another agent useful therapeutically in the treatment or management of the particular disease. 
     
    
    [0223]
     In combination therapies for the treatment of ALS, the present therapeutics can be used in combination with riluzole and other glutamate inhibitors. 
     
    
    [0224]
     The inventors have also found that copper is retained in metal-catalyzed oxidized SOD1, which is a DSE-2 immunoreactive aggregated species. The inventors also find that SOD1 oxidized by treatment with hydrogen peroxide displays DSE2 immunreactivity ( Figure 2 ). The DSE2 antibody, which reacts against the SOD1 electrostatic loop of the active site, may be physically blocking access to the retained copper of the misfolded species, and thus reducing the catalysis of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species via the Haber-Weiess reaction, the Fenton reaction, and others. Notably, high concentrations of ascorbate in the CNS may be facilitating redox cycling of the copper bound by misfolded SOD1, enhancing its ability to generate ROS and RNS. The aggregated state of SOD1, which has been preferentially secreted from neurons (1), impairs its clearance and degradation, "trapping" copper in a catalytically active neurotoxic form in close proximity to motor neurons in ALS, and hippocampal and other neurons in AD. The possibility that Abeta may contribute to this toxic redox cycling of copper in AD (83), is noted. 
     
    
    [0225]
     Accordingly In a particularly useful combination therapy, the present therapeutics are used in combination with an antioxidant, for the treatment of ALS, AD and PD as well as other disorders in which dysfunctional SOD1 and/or SOD1 aggregation results in the toxic accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) or reactive nitrogen species (RNS). The antioxidants are a well known group of readily available agents, and include vitamins ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol, and pharmacological agents such as N-acetylcysteine. In embodiments of the present method, the antioxidant is a functional SOD synthetic, which mimics the enzymatic action of endogenous SOD to reduce accumulation of superoxide radicals. Related useful drugs include those which stabilize the SOD dimer, as described for instance by    Lansbury et al in US 2006/0194821   . Other drugs having the same effect are useful as well. In particular embodiments, the antioxidant is a copper chelator, such as penicillamine, clioquinol, 8-hydroxyquinoline and derivatives such as those described    US2006/0089380   , cuprizone, picolinic acid-based compounds, molybdenum compounds, L-taurine or other drug having the effect of inhibiting the redox cycling mediated by copper ion. Still other useful antioxidants include superoxide scavengers, peroxide scavengers, and scavengers of RNS. In a particular embodiment of the invention, the present therapeutics are used in combination with resveritrol, an antioxidant present in red grapes and wine. In a specific embodiment, the DSE2 antibody or epitope is used in combination with resveritrol. 
     
    
    [0226]
     When used in combination with the present therapeutics, the combination agent is administered in the manner prescribed for that agent, in accordance with standard practice. 
   
 Diagnostics 
 
   
    
    [0227]
     The antibodies specific for SOD1 disease specific epitopes such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes can also be used to diagnose amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Thus, disclosed is a method of detecting or diagnosing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a subject comprising the steps of:
       (a) contacting a test sample of said subject with an antibody of the invention, wherein the antibody binds to an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope to produce an antibody-antigen complex;   (b) measuring the amount of the antibody-antigen complex in the test sample; and   (c) comparing the amount of antibody-antigen complex in the test sample to a control   
wherein a difference in the amount of antibody-antigen complex in the test sample as compared to the control is indicative of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
       
    
    [0228]
     Optionally, iln the case where the epitope is masked within the SOD1 aggregate, the method comprises the further step of treating the sample under disaggregation conditions, using for instance guanidinium hydrochloride, to liberate the misfolded SOD for subsequent detection. 
     
    
    [0229]
     The phrase "detecting or monitoring amyotrophic lateral sclerosis" refers to a method or process of determining if a subject has or does not have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or the extent of the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In addition, the antibodies of the invention can be used to detect or monitor the appearance and progression of SOD1 aggregation, and hence progression of the disease. The antibodies are further useful to monitor progression of the disease during treating with a method of the invention. 
     
    
    [0230]
     The term "control" as used herein refers to a sample from a subject or a group of subjects who are either known as having amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or not having amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the difference in the amount of antibody-antigen complex will vary depending on the control. For example, if the control is known to have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, then less measurable antibody-antigen complex in the test sample as compared to the control indicates that the subject does not have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or that they have less of an extent of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. If the control is known to have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, then equal or greater measurable antibody-antigen complex in the test sample as compared to the control indicates that the subject has amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. If the control is known not to have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, then less or equal measurable antibody-antigen complex in the test sample as compared to the control indicates that the subject does not have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. If the control is known not to have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, then greater measurable antibody-antigen complex in the test sample as compared to the control indicates that the subject has amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
     
    
    [0231]
     The term "sample" as used herein refers to any fluid, cell or tissue sample from a subject which can be assayed for misfolded SOD1. In one embodiment, the sample comprises, without limitation, cerebrospinal fluid, plasma, blood serum, whole blood, spinal cord tissue, brain cells, motor neurons, a portion of the dorsal horn, or peripheral blood cells, such as erythrocytes, mononuclear cells, lymphocytes, monocytes and granulocytes. 
     
    
    [0232]
     Optionally, in the case where the epitope is masked within the SOD1 aggregate, the method comprises the further step of treating the sample under disaggregation conditions, using for instance guanidinium hydrochloride, to liberate the misfolded SOD for subsequent detection. 
     
    
    [0233]
     In one disclosure, the antibodies are used to determine if misfolded SOD1 is present in the sample. In another embodiment, the antibodies are labeled with a detectable marker. 
     
    
    [0234]
     In another disclosure, the epitopes are used to monitor the appearance and titre of antibodies introduced into or raised within a recipient. In this disclosure, a patient sample is mixed with the epitope, and preferably a labeled epitope, and the presence or quantity of bound antibody is determined. 
     
    
    [0235]
     The label is preferably capable of producing, either directly or indirectly, a detectable signal. For example, the label may be radio-opaque or a radioisotope, such as  3 H,  14 C,  32 P,  35 S,  123 I,  125 I,  131 I; a fluorescent (fluorophore) or chemiluminescent (chromophore) compound, such as fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine or luciferin; an enzyme, such as alkaline phosphatase, beta-galactosidase or horseradish peroxidase; an imaging agent; or a metal ion. 
     
    
    [0236]
     In another disclosure, the detectable signal is detectable indirectly. For example, a secondary antibody that is specific for the antibody of the invention and contains a detectable label can be used to detect the antibody of the invention. 
     
    
    [0237]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that a number of methods can be used to determine if misfolded SOD1 is present in a sample using the antibodies of the invention, including immunoassays such as flow cytometry, Western blots, ELISA, and immunoprecipitation followed by SDS-PAGE immunocytochemistry. 
     
    
    [0238]
     In one disclosure, a misfolded-SOD1 related disease, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Lewy Body and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is detected or monitored in a subject using flow cytometry of a sample from the subject, including peripheral blood cells, such as erythrocytes, mononuclear cells, lymphocytes, monocytes and/or granulocytes, or mononuclear cells found in cerebrospinal fluid. In a further embodiment, the cells assayed using flow cytometry can be permeablized using reagents known to persons skilled in the art including, without limitation, detergents, ethanol, methanol and paraformaldehyde. 
In one disclosure, a misfolded-SOD1 related disease, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and/or Lewy body disease can be detected or monitored in a subject using flow cytometry of a sample from the subject, including peripheral blood cells, such as erythrocytes, mononuclear cells, lymphocytes, monocytes and/or granulocytes, or mononuclear cells found in cerebrospinal fluid. In a further embodiment, the cells assayed using flow cytometry can be permeablized using reagents known to persons skilled in the art including, without limitation, detergents, ethanol, methanol and paraformaldehyde. 
In another disclosure, a misfolded-SOD1 related disease, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and/or Lewy Body disease can be detected or monitored using the epitope protection assay described in    WO 2005/019828    entitled "Epitope Protection Assay and Method for Detecting Protein Conformations", which entered national phase in the United States on February 17, 2006. In another disclosure, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is detected or monitored using the epitope protection assay described in    WO 2005/019828   . 
     
    
    [0239]
     Any of the disclosed methods to diagnose, detect or monitor SOD1 aggregation and development of a misfolded-SOD1 related disease can be used in addition or in combination with traditional diagnostic techniques for misfolded-SOD1 related diseases. 
     
    
    [0240]
     Any of the disclosed methods to diagnose, detect or monitor SOD1 aggregation and development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis can be used in addition or in combination with traditional diagnostic techniques for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Traditional diagnostic techniques for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis include physical and neurological examinations, and can include electromyography tests, nerve condition velocity tests, and magnetic resonance imaging. 
     
    
    [0241]
     The diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease, and the monitoring of progression of these disorders, is unsatisfactory at this time. Definite diagnosis can only be made by tissue examination on necropsy evaluation after death, or by biopsy (almost never utilized in neurodegenerative diseases). It is not an exaggeration to state that antemortem presumptive diagnosis of ALS, AD, and PD is made on the basis of clinical features, which are often shared with other diseases, and by attempting to exclude other disorders that mimic the disease in question. "Diagnosis by exclusion" is conducted through neuroimaging (MRI and CAT scans) and blood tests to rule out confounding diagnoses (such as thyroid function tests). Specialized testing for the separate neurodegenerative disorders (such as neuropsychological assessment for AD, PET scanning for PD, and electromyography for ALS, along with the clinical exam, are predictive of autopsy diagnosis 70-90% of AD and PD patents, and usually greater than 90% of ALS patients. 
     
    
    [0242]
     The antibodies of the invention are disclosed as useful for diagnosis and are disclosed for use in concentrating low quantities of misfolded proteins present in patient fluids and tissues by concentrating methods such as immunoprecipitation. In one disclosure, an antibody that recognizes an epitope selectively presented in non-native forms of SOD1 is used to immunoprecipitate SOD1 from peripheral blood. The presence of immunoprecipitated SOD1 may optionally be detected by ELISA. 
     
    
    [0243]
     The invention also includes kits for diagnosing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis comprising an antibody of the invention and instructions for use thereof. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the antibody may be labeled with a detectable marker. 
     
    
    [0244]
     Disclosed are kits for diagnosing ALS, AD, and/or PD comprising one or more isolated peptides corresponding to disease-specific epitopes. In one disclosure, the kit comprises an isolated peptide corresponding to the disease specific epitopes selected from the group comprising, DSE1, DSE1 a, DSE2, DSE3, DSE4, DSE5, DSE6 and DSE7. The isolated peptides may be included in addition to an antibody that binds said epitope. In one disclosure the isolated peptide is a positive control. In the alternative, the isolated peptide can be useful per se to screen a sample to detect any DSE antibodies present, for example, in a patient undergoing either active or passive immunotherapy based on such peptides and antibodies. 
   
 Drug Screening 
 
   
    
    [0245]
     The antibodies of the invention are disclosed as being used to identify and screen for substances useful for the treatment or prevention of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or the formation of misfolded SOD1, which is associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. For example, the method of identifying substances for treating, inhibiting or preventing of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis can include:
       (a) contacting a sample from a subject treated with a substance with any one of the antibodies of the invention, wherein binding is indicative of the presence of misfolded SOD1 in the sample,   (b) detecting the level of binding in the sample, and   (c) comparing the level of binding in the sample to the level of binding in a control,   
wherein an altered level of binding in the sample compared to the control is indicative of a substance for the treatment or prevention of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
       
    
    [0246]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the control can be a sample from a subject not treated with a substance or treated with a substance that is known not to treat or prevent amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Thus, if the "altered level of binding" is a reduced level of binding in the sample compared to the control, then this is indicative of a substance useful for the treatment or prevention of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In addition, the control can be a sample from the same subject, but before treatment with the substance to be tested or samples from the subject taken at different points of time during treatment with the substance to be tested. 
     
    
    [0247]
     Substances for the treatment or prevention of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis can also be identified using cells or cell lines. For example, cells or cell lines can be contacted with a substance and then the presence of misfolded SOD1 on the cells can be detected using the binding proteins of the invention and compared to a control. 
     
    
    [0248]
     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that a library of molecules can be screened by monitoring the effect of the candidate compounds on the inhibition of the conversion of SOD1 to a misfolded or disease-specific conformation. 
     
    
    [0249]
     Disclosed are substances identified using the methods of the invention, which are useful for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or the formation of misfolded and/or aggregated SOD1, which is associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
     
    
    [0250]
     The following non-limiting examples are illustrative of embodiments of the present invention: 
   
 
 Examples 
 
 
   
    
    [0251]
     Immunogens comprising isolated peptides corresponding to disease specific epitopes, for example DSE1a, may in the following examples refer to analog DSE sequences (e.g. DSE1a analog GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG comprising additional Nterminal G sequences) as the DSE number (e.g. DSE1) that is related to the analog. 
   
 
 Example 1 
 
 
 
 DSE2 Monoclonal Antibody Generation 
 
   
    
    [0252]
     An isolated peptide corresponding to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope (DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS) bearing an N-terminal Cys residue was conjugated to KLH for immunization of BALB/c mice, and to BSA for ELISA screening. Multiple injections were given to each mouse at 21-day intervals. The adjuvant for first injection was Complete Freund's Adjuvant (Sigma, Cat# F5881-6x10mL). Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant (Sigma, Cat# F5506-6x10mL) was the adjuvant used for the remaining injections. Blood was collected from the mice 7-10 days after the 3rd injection. The cell fusion was done 3-4 days after the final boost without any adjuvant. 
     
    
    [0253]
     The fusion partner used was  Sp  2/0-Ag14 (ATCC# CRL-1581). The fusion between fusion partner SP2/0 and spleen cells was done at 1:5 ratio (2.0x10 7 : 1.0x10 8 ) in 1ml prewarmed PEG (MW1450: Sigma, Cat# P7181). Fusion cells were re-suspended into 50ml of DMEM with 10% FBS and plated into 5 96-well plates at 100µl/well. 100µl/well of 2x HAT DMEM media was added to the fusion cells after 24 hours. Media was changed on  days  5 and 7 with fresh 1x HAT media. On day 10-12, 50µl of supernatant was collected from each well for first ELISA screening. Positive clones were transferred to 24 well plates. Upon confluence, antibody supernatants were screened by ELISA with the antigen used to immunize the mice and a non-related antigen (human transferrin). Positive clones were transferred to 6-well plates for expansion or hybridoma subcloning. The subcloning was done by limiting dilution at 50-70 cells/ 96-well plate. 
   
 
 Example 2 
 
 
 
 Large Scale Monoclonal Antibody Production 
 
   
    
    [0254]
     For large scale antibody production, 0.2-0.5ml of Pristane (Sigma, Cat#T-7640) or IFA was injected to each mouse (BALB/c) by i.p. for priming. On day 7-14, 500,000 to 5,000,000 hybridoma cells in 0.5ml 1xPBS at log phase were injected to each mouse by i.p. The ascitic fluid was allowed to accumulate for 1-2 weeks. 2-5ml of ascites can be harvested from each mouse, with an IgG concentration around 1-9mg/ml. Protein A was used for the IgG2 and 3 purification, and Protein G for IgG1. 
     
    
    [0255]
     The IgG mAb clone was designated 10E11C11. This antibody displays properties consistent with its recognition of a disease-specific epitope for misfolded SOD1. This mAb binds to denatured SOD1 on immunoblot membranes, recognizing monomeric denatured SOD1 (unstructured). The mAb does not recognize the dimeric SOD1 on immunoblotting. On immunoprecipitations mediated by 10E11C11 conjugated magnetic beads, there is no detectable binding of native SOD1 from normal human brain or mouse brain and spinal cord. The mAb does efficiently immunoprecipitate SOD1 deliberately misfolded by low pH, the chaotrope guanidine, or both. Most importantly, 10E11C11 efficiently immunoprecipitates misfolded SOD1 in a mouse model of ALS caused by transgenic overexpression of mutant SOD1 (G93A). Notably, mouse endogenous SOD1 present in the same tissue is not immunoprecipitated, suggesting that the misfolded human mutant SOD1 does not "co-recruit" normal mouse SOD in this disease model. 
     
    
    [0256]
     Antibodies were also raised in a like manner to the epitope NPLSRKHGGPKDEE, bearing an N-terminal Cys residue. 
     
    
    [0257]
     Such antibodies are readily available and can be obtained from Neil Cashman at the Brain Research Centre, UBC Hospital, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 2B5, Canada ( neil.cashman@utoronto.ca ). 
   
 
 Example 3 
 
 
 
 DSE2 Monoclonal  Antibody Generation Method  2 
 
   
    
    [0258]
     Mouse monoclonal antibody generation: 4 female BALB/c mice were initially immunized by intraperitoneal injections with 25 µg of KLH coupled to peptide corresponding to DSE2 (DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS, plus an N terminal cysteine for coupling to KLH by disulfide bridge formation) per mouse in Complete Freund's Adjuvant. Four subsequent boosts were administered as above, spaced at 3 week intervals, with Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant. When the serum titre had risen more than 10-fold from a pre-immune serum sample, as determined by ELISA, the 2 highest mouse responders were each boosted intravenously with 10 µg of KLH coupled peptide protein antigen, in 100 µl of sterile PBS pH 7.4. Three days later the donor mice were sacrificed and the spleen cells were harvested and pooled. Fusion of the splenocytes with SP2/0 BALB/c parental myeloma cells was performed as previously described (see example 1 above) except that one-step selection and cloning of the hybridomas was performed in Clone EZ medium. This semi-solid medium allows HAT selection and cloning in a single step and eliminates the overgrowth of slower growing desirable clones by faster growing, perhaps undesirable, hybridomas. Clones were picked 11 days post fusion and resuspended in wells of 96-well tissue culture plates in: 200 µl of D-MEM (Invitogen) medium containing 20% fetal bovine serum. After 4 days, the supernatants were screened by indirect ELISA for antibody activity on plates coated with 1 µl/well of peptide coupled to BSA. 
   
   ELISA conditions : 
 
   
    
    [0259]
       For screening and testing:  DSE-2-BSA antigen was coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 1µg/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0260]
       For testing on negative control antigen:  0.5µg/well HT (human transferrin) antigen coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 50µL/well and dried down overnight at 37°C.  Blocking:  Plates blocked with 3% skim milk powder in PBS (pH 7.4) at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature.
         1° antibody:  Mouse anti-DSE-2 hybridoma tissue culture supernatant and mouse monoclonal controls added at 100µL neat per well for screening and testing and were incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with shaking.     2° antibody used for screening and testing:  1/10000 Goat anti-mouse IgG Fc HRP conjugated used was used diluted in PBS-Tween (pH 7.4), added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at 37°C with shaking.   
   
    
    [0261]
       Substrate:  TMB buffer (BioFx cat# TMBW-1000-01) was added at 50µL per well and incubated in the dark at room temperature. The reaction was stopped with 50µL 1 M HCl per well after 15 minutes and read at OD 450 nm. 
     
    
    [0262]
     Table 3 shows the ELISA screening of hybridoma clones for antibodies directed against the disease-specific epitope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2). The antibodies generated by several of the hybridoma clones were highly specific for peptides corresponding to the disease specific eptiope, and did not detectably recognize the control antigen HT (human transferrin). These results show that monoclonal antibodies can be produced against peptides corresponding to epitopes identified as selectively presented or accessible on misfolded forms of SOD1.
     TABLE 3: ELISA Screening of Hybridoma Clones for Antibodies Directed to DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2)             Clone     Exp #1  DSE-2-BSA   Antigen     Exp #   2  DSE-2-BSA  Antigen     HT  Antigen       Isotype             2A11   2.624   2.000   0.086   IgG       3H1   1.982   1.908   0.081   IgG       5G5   2.712   2.014   0.068   IgG       5G12   2.072   1.755   0.064   IgG       6C3   2.527   1.889   0.071   IgG       6G12   2.093   1.982   0.069   IgG       7E10   2.586   2.047   0.068   IgG       7F8   2.317   1.961   0.079   IgG       8C9   2.087   1.929   0.072   IgG       8D1   2.238   1.931   0.067   IgG       10C12   3.032   1.909   0.061   IgG       10F2   2.599   1.699   0.059   IgG           Hybridoma clone 3H1 (Accession number 220207-02) was deposited with the International Depository Authority of Canada located in Winnipeg, Canada on Februray 22, 2007.           
   
 
 Example 4 
 
 
 
 DSE1 Polyclonal Antibodies 
 
 
 
 Antibody Generation and Purification 
 
 
   
    
    [0263]
     Peptide synthesis was carried out using standard Fmoc-based chemistry on a Perseptives Biosystems 9050 Plus Pepsynthesizer. The multiple antigenic peptide was synthesized on a [Fmoc-Lys(Fmoc)] 4 -Lys 2 -Lys-Cys(Acm)-β-Ala-Wang resin (Advanced ChemTech, SM5104, Louisville, Kentucky) using Fmoc-protected amino acids (Advanced ChemTech; Novabiochem, San Diego, California; Applied Biosystems, Foster City, California). The sequence was Acetyl-GGRLACGVIGIGGKG-; composition and sequence were verified by amino acid analysis and peptide synthesizer on-line UV-absorbance analysis. This peptide was cleaved and purified by dialysis versus 10mM Tris, 10mM sodium acetate (Sigma); dialysis was carried out at pH 8.0 to allow disulfide bond formation between adjacent strands of the peptide dendrimer. The MAP antigen had a molecular weight of ∼11kDa and was used without conjugation to a carrier protein. The antigen was sent to Sigma-Genosys (Oakville, Ontario, Canada) for rabbit antiserum production (manufacturer's 'partial package'). Antiserum production followed standard protocol (Sigma-Genosys) and was in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act (USA). 
     
    
    [0264]
     A linear peptide with identical sequence to the antigen was synthesized on a [non-cleavable] TentaGel-SH resin (Advanced ChemTech). This resin was deprotected and packed into disposable columns (Evergreen Scientific, Los Angeles, CA) for antiserum purification. Anti-serum was pre-cleared by centrifugation (16,000x g) and diluted 1:10 in tris-buffered saline (TBS) prior to purification. Dilute anti-serum was re-circulated over the affinity purification column 3x at a flow rate of ∼1ml/min at room temperature for binding. The antibody-bound column was washed with a minimum of 100ml of TBS (∼1ml/min), until the wash eluent had no protein (A 280  = 0). Antibody fractions were eluted with 50mM glycine, pH 2.8 into 1/5 volume ice-cold 1.5M Tris, 150mM NaCl, pH 8.0, mixed and immediately placed on ice. These fractions were centrifuged 16,000xg and the concentration of the antibody in the supernatant was determined using an ε 280  = 220,000 and an IgG molecular weight of 150,000Da. Purification column was regenerated by excess washing with 50mM glycine, pH 2.8, followed by treatment with saturated guanidine-HCl, 50mM Tris, pH 8.0. Column was equilibrated with TBS prior to application of anti-serum. Only serum from the third bleed or later was used. In all cases, antibody was purified immediately prior to use and stored with 2mg/ml BSA to stabilize the antibody. 
   
 
 SDS-PAGE and Western Blotting 
 
 
   
    
    [0265]
     SDS-PAGE was performed using the Tris-Glycine buffer system with pre-cast 4-20% poly-acrylamide gradient gels (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). For partially denaturing gels human erythrocyte SOD1 (Sigma) was either boiled for 15 minutes with 4% betamercaptoethanol (Aldrich) in SDS-loading buffer or kept on ice for 15 minutes in SDS-loading buffer. 1-5µg of SOD1 was run in each lane with equivalent resultsFor Western blotting, gels were transferred onto PVDF membrane, blocked overnight in 5% milk-TBST (tris buffered saline, 0.05% Tween-20). 0.2µg/ml (note: up to at least 5µg/ml yielded equivalent results) SEDI SOD antibody (anti-DSE1 polyclonal) diluted in 5% milk-TBST was used as the primary antibody, and 1:5000 dilution of anti-rabbit IgG-HRP (Stressgen, Victoria, Canada) was used as the secondary antibody. Western blots were developed using ECL-Plus (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK) and visualized on Kodak film. For peptide competition experiments), diluted SEDI SOD antibody was pre-incubated with a 500x (molar) excess of free linear peptide with the same sequence as the antigen at 4°C overnight or 1 hr. at room temperature prior to use. 
   
 Results 
 
 
 
 Antibody Design and Validation 
 
 
   
    
    [0266]
     Investigating protein conformation  in vivo  is a challenging problem. One possible strategy is to design an antibody that will recognize specific misfolded conformations but not the native protein. This hypothesis-driven approach has been previously applied to other neurodegenerative disorders involving protein aggregation, but these designs have relied on low resolution biophysical information on the structure of the misfolded protein. The inventors' approach employs the use of detailed X-ray crystal structure data to design an antibody against misfolded SOD1 (6, 71) It was hypothesized that an antibody that recognizes an epitope inaccessible in native dimeric SOD1 but exposed in SOD1 aggregates and aggregation intermediates, would be capable of selectively detecting misfolded SOD1  in vivo.  Examination of the X-ray structure of the native SOD1 dimer (pdb code: 1SPD) (72) shows that residues 145-151 (ACGVIGI) are sequestered in the SOD1 dimer interface and are inaccessible in native SOD1. An antibody raised against this epitope is hypothesized to recognize misfolded forms of SOD1 where the native dimer interface is disrupted and exposed, such as in monomers and non-native oligomers. Accordingly, the inventors have named this the SOD1-dimer interface antibody (SEDI antibody, also referred to as anti-DSE1 polyclonal antibody). The inventors synthesized a multiple antigenic peptide where each branch of the dendrimer had the sequence ggRLACGVIGlggkg; the capitalized sequence is part of the SOD1 sequence (residues 143-151). SOD1 residues 143 and 144 were added to the antigenic peptide to increase its solubility; the N-terminal and C-terminal Gly/Lys linkers were added to contextualize the epitope to an internal sequence, increase solubility, and increase molecular weight for enhanced immunogenicity. Rabbit anti-serum produced from immunization with this antigen was affinity purified using an immobilized linear peptide with identical sequence to the antigen. Western blots were performed to examine whether the antibody could discriminate between dimeric SOD1 and monomeric SOD1 with the selected epitope exposed. Native SOD1 is sufficiently stable that under nonreducing conditions SOD1 runs primarily as a dimer in SDS-PAGE When reduced under denaturing conditions, it runs predominantly as the monomer, but with some dimer still detectable. In these gels, the SEDI antibody reacts only with monomeric SOD1 and not with native dimeric SOD1 This antibody will thus react with SOD1 conformers where the selected epitope is exposed, but not with native SOD1. This contrasts with commercially available SOD1 antibodies that detect both native and misfolded SOD1 indiscriminately. Competition with the antigenic peptide confirmed the specificity of the antibody. The SEDI antibody thus satisfies the design criteria and provides a selectively presented or accessible inol for testing the  in vivo  hypotheses. 
   
 
 Example 5 
 
 
 
 DSE1Monoclonal Antibody Generation 
 
   
    
    [0267]
     Mouse monoclonal antibody generation: 4 female BALB/c mice were initially immunized by intraperitoneal injections with 25 µg of protein antigen per mouse in Complete Freund's Adjuvant. Four subsequent boosts were administered as above, spaced at 3 week intervals, with Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant. When the serum titre has risen more than 10-fold from a pre-immune serum sample, as determined by ELISA, the 2 highest responders are each boosted intravenously with 10 µg of protein antigen, in 100 µl of sterile PBS pH 7.4. Three days later the donor mice are sacrificed and the spleen cells are harvested and pooled. Fusion of the splenocytes with SP2/0 BALB/c parental myeloma cells is performed as previously described in example 1 above, except that one-step selection and cloning of the hybridomas is performed in Clone EZ medium. This semi-solid medium allows HAT selection and cloning in a single step and eliminates the overgrowth of slower growing desirable clones by faster growing, perhaps undesirable, hybridomas. Clones are picked 11 days post fusion and are resuspended in wells of 96-well tissue culture plates in: 200 µl of D-MEM (Invitogen) medium containing 20% fetal bovine serum. After 4 days, the supernatants are screened by indirect ELISA for antibody activity on plates coated with 1 µg/well of protein antigen. 
   
 
 ELISA conditions: 
 
 
   
    
    [0268]
       For screening and testing:  DSE-1-BSA antigen is coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 1µg/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0269]
       For testing on negative control antigen:  0.5µg/well HT (human transferrin) antigen is coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 50µL/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0270]
       Blocking:  Plates are blocked with 3% skim milk powder in PBS (pH 7.4) at 100µL/well and are incubated for 1 hour at room temperature.
         1° antibody:  Mouse anti-DSE-1 hybridoma tissue culture supernatant and mouse monoclonal controls are added at 100µL neat per well for screening and testing. Mouse anti-DSE-1 a immune serum and mouse pre-immune serum diluted 1/800 in SP2/0 tissue culture supernatant are added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with shaking.     2° antibody used for screening and testing:  1/10000 Goat anti-mouse IgG Fc HRP conjugated is used. Secondary antibody is diluted in PBS-Tween (pH 7.4), added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at 37°C with shaking.   
   
    
    [0271]
       Substrate:  TMB buffer (BioFx cat# TMBW-1000-01) is added at 50µL per well and incubated in the dark at room temperature. Reaction is stopped with 50µL 1 M HCl per well after 15 minutes and read at OD 450 nm. 
   
 
 Example 6 
 
 
 
 DSE1a Antibody Production 
 
   
    
    [0272]
     The isolated peptide corresponding to the DSE1a epitope (GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG) was conjugated to KLH for immunization of BALB/c mice, and to BSA for ELISA screening. 
     
    
    [0273]
     Mouse monoclonal antibody generation: 4 female BALB/c mice were initially immunized by intraperitoneal injections with 25 µg of protein antigen per mouse in Complete Freund's Adjuvant. Four subsequent boosts were administered as above, spaced at 3 week intervals, with Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant. When the serum titre had risen more than 10-fold from a pre-immune serum sample, as determined by ELISA, the 2 highest responders were each boosted intravenously with 10 µg of protein antigen, in 100 µl of sterile PBS pH 7.4. Three days later the donor mice were sacrificed and the spleen cells were harvested and pooled. Fusion of the splenocytes with SP2/0 BALB/c parental myeloma cells was performed as previously described in example 1 above except that one-step selection and cloning of the hybridomas was performed in Clone EZ medium. This semi-solid medium allows HAT selection and cloning in a single step and eliminates the overgrowth of slower growing desirable clones by faster growing, perhaps undesirable, hybridomas. Clones were picked 11 days post fusion and resuspended in wells of 96-well tissue culture plates in: 200 µl of D-MEM (Invitrogen) medium containing 20% fetal bovine serum. After 4 days, the supernatants were screened by indirect ELISA for antibody activity on plates coated with 1 µg/well of protein antigen. 
   
 
 ELISA conditions: 
 
 
   
    
    [0274]
       For screening and testing:  DSE-1a-BSA antigen was coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 1µ/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0275]
       For testing on negative control antigen:  0.5µg/well HT (human transferrin) antigen was coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 50µL/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0276]
       Blocking:  Plates were blocked with 3% skim milk powder in PBS (pH 7.4) at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature.
         1° antibody:  Mouse anti-DSE-1a hybridoma tissue culture supernatant and mouse monoclonal controls were added at 100µL neat per well for screening and testing. Mouse anti-DSE-1a immune serum and mouse pre-immune serum diluted 1/800 in SP2/0 tissue culture supernatant were added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with shaking.     2° antibody used for screening and testing:  1/10000 Goat anti-mouse IgG Fc HRP conjugated was used. Secondary antibody was diluted in PBS-Tween (pH 7.4), added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at 37°C with shaking.   
   
    
    [0277]
       Substrate:  TMB buffer (BioFx cat# TMBW-1000-01) added at 50µL per well and incubated in the dark at room temperature. The reaction stopped with 50µL 1 M HCl per well after 15 minutes and read at OD 450 nm. 
     
    
    [0278]
     Table 4 shows the ELISA screening of hybridoma clones for antibodies directed against the peptide corresponding to the disease-specific epitope GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a). The antibodies generated by the hybridoma clones were highly specific for the disease specific eptiope, and did not detectably recognize the control antigen HT (human transferrin). These results show that monoclonal antibodies can be produced against peptides corresponding to epitopes identified as presented or accessible on misfolded forms of SOD1.
     TABLE 4: ELISA Screening of Hybridoma Clones for Antibodies directed against epitope GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a)             Clone     Exp #1 DSE-1 a-BSA   Antigen     Exp #   2  DSE-1a-BSA  Antigen     HT  Antigen       Isotype             3C1   0.484   0.265   0.105   IgG       3C11   0.702   0.186   0.093   IgG       3D2   1.542   1.035   0.058   IgG       3F1   3.072   2.143   0.080   IgG       4B5   0.506   0.238   0.065   IgG       4H6   1.244   0.957   0.085   IgG       5F6   0.862   0.663   0.089   IgG       6D8   2.690   2.186   0.089   IgG       9A4   2.538   2.313   0.071   IgG       9A8   1.489   0.884   0.100   IgG       10C3   2.446   2.200   0.067   IgG       10C12   2.867   2.016   0.089   IgG           Hybridoma clone 6D8 (Accession number 220207-01) was deposited with the International Depository Authority of Canada located in Winnipeg, Canada on Februray 22, 2007.           
     
    
    [0279]
     Antibodies are generated against DSE 4, 6 and 7 using similar techniques. 
   
 
 Example 7 
 
 
 
 Antibodies directed against DSE1a do not recognize the DSE1 peptide. 
 
   
    
    [0280]
     The ability of anti-DSE1a antibody to recognize its cognate peptide sequence (DSE1a) was compared to anti-DSE1a antibody's ability to recognize the non-oxidized peptide (DSE1). 
     
    
    [0281]
     Microtiter plate wells were coated with DSE1 peptide or with DSE1a peptide coupled to BSA. After free binding sites in each was were blocked with BSA, antibody containing tissue culture supernatants from the DSE1 a hybridoma clones was added, and antibody allowed to bind to the BSA coupled peptides. Bound antibody was then detected with a peroxidase coupled secondary antibody.  Figure 1  and Table 5 show that all tested antibodies recognize preferentially DSE1a over DSE1. 
     
    
    [0282]
     When mice were immunized with DSE1 peptide, mostly IgM isotype antibody were formed. An IgM antibody likely has a lower affinity for the epitope than the DSE1a antibodies raised as noted above, which are of the IgG isotype. The modification of DSE1 to comprise an oxidized cysteine resulted in the production of antibodies with operationally greater avidity.
     TABLE 5. ELISA Showing Anti-DSE1a Antibody Clones Preferentially Recognize Oxidized DSE1a Peptide           Clone       Peptide       Peptide       Clone       Peptide       Peptide                 DSE1a       DSE1           DSE1a       DSE1         3C1                               1.141   0.243     4H6     0.674   0.233           1.405   0.234       0.685   0.29         Average     1.273   0.2385     Average     0.6795   0.2615         Rel Dev     14.66%   2.67%     Rel Dev     1.14%   15.41%             DSE1a       DSE1           DSE1a       DSE1         3C11                               1.165   0.197     6D8     2.303   0.366           0.732   0.216       2.168   0.242         Average     0.9485   0.2065     Average     2.2355   0.304         Rel Dev     32.28%   6.51%     Rel Dev     4.27%   28.84%             DSE1a       DSE1           DSE1a       DSE1         3D2                               1.073   0.219     9A4     1.006   0.203           0.93   0.209       0.687   0.343         Average     1.0015   0.214     Average     0.8465   0.273         Rel Dev     10.10%   3.30%     Rel Dev     26.65%   36.26%             DSE1a       DSE1           DSE1a       DSE1         3D9                               0.195   0.223     9A8     2.101   0.21           0.164   0.195       2.194   0.276         Average     0.1795   0.209     Average     2.1475   0.243         Rel Dev     12.21%   9.47%     Rel Dev     3.06%   19.21%             DSE1a       DSE1           DSE1a       DSE1         3F1   2.948   0.247     10C3     2.227   0.233           3.005   0.269       2.087   0.22         Average     2.9765   0.258     Average     2.157   0.2265         Rel Dev     1.35%   6.03%     Rel Dev     4.59%   4.06%             DSE1a       DSE1           DSE1a       DSE1         4B5   0.671   0.185     PBST     0.199   0.192           0.481   0.169       0.194   0.166         Average     0.576   0.177     Average     0.1965   0.179         Rel Dev     23.32%   6.39%     Rel Dev     1.80%   10.27%           
   
 
 Example 8 
 
 
 
 DSE5 Antibody production 
 
   
    
    [0283]
     Mouse monoclonal antibody generation: 4 female BALB/c mice were initially immunized by intraperitoneal injections with 25 µg of immunogen comprising peptide (IKGLTEGLHGF) corresponding to DSE5 coupled to KLH by disulfide formation with a cysteine that was added to the N per mouse in Complete Freund's Adjuvant. Four subsequent boosts were administered as above, spaced at 3 week intervals, with Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant. When the serum titre had risen more than 10-fold from a pre-immune serum sample, as determined by ELISA, the 2 highest responders were each boosted intravenously with 10 µg of protein antigen, in 100 µl of sterile PBS pH 7.4. Three days later the donor mice were sacrificed and the spleen cells were harvested and pooled. Fusion of the splenocytes with SP2/0 BALB/c parental myeloma cells was performed as previously described as in example one above except that one-step selection and cloning of the hybridomas was performed in Clone EZ medium. This semi-solid medium allows HAT selection and cloning in a single step and eliminates the overgrowth of slower growing desirable clones by faster growing, perhaps undesirable, hybridomas. Clones were picked 11 days post fusion and resuspended in wells of 96-well tissue culture plates in: 200 µl of D-MEM (Invitrogen) medium containing 20% fetal bovine serum. After 4 days, the supernatants were screened by indirect ELISA for antibody activity on plates coated with 1 µg/well of protein antigen. 
   
 
 ELISA conditions: 
 
 
   
    
    [0284]
       For screening and testing:  DSE5-BSA antigen was coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 1µl/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0285]
       For testing on negative control antigen:  0.5µg/well HT (human transferrin) antigen coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 50µL/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0286]
       Blocking:  Plates were blocked with 3% skim milk powder in PBS (pH 7.4) at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature.
         1° antibody:  Mouse anti-DSE5 hybridoma tissue culture supernatant and mouse monoclonal controls were added at 100µL neat per well for screening and testing. Mouse anti-DSE-1a immune serum and mouse pre-immune serum diluted 1/800 in SP2/0 tissue culture supernatant were added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with shaking.     2° antibody used for screening and testing:  1/10000 Goat anti-mouse IgG Fc HRP conjugated was used. Secondary antibody was diluted in PBS-Tween (pH 7.4), added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at 37°C with shaking.   
   
    
    [0287]
       Substrate:  TMB buffer (BioFx cat# TMBW-1000-01) was added at 50µL per well and incubated in the dark at room temperature. The reaction stopped with 50µL 1 M HCl per well after 15 minutes and read at OD 450 nm. 
     
    
    [0288]
     Table 6 shows the ELISA screening of hybridoma clones for antibodies directed against the disease-specific epitope (IKGLTEGLHGF). The antibodies generated by several of the hybridoma clones were highly specific for the peptide corresponding to the eptiope, and did not detectably recognize the control antigen HT (human transferrin). These results show that monoclonal antibodies can be produced against peptides corresponding to epitopes identified as selectlively presented or accessible on misfolded forms of SOD1.
     TABLE 6: ELISA screening of hybridoma clones for antibodies directed against epitope IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5)             Clone     Exp #1  DSE-5-BSA   Antigen     Exp #   2  DSE-5-BSA  Antigen     HT  Antigen       Isotype             5C6   2.779   1.787   0.079   IgG           Hybridoma clone 5C6 (accession number 280207-01) was deposited with the International Depository Authority of Canada located in Winnipeg, Canada on February 28, 2007.           
   
 
 Example 9 
 
 
 
 
 Antibody Production to Disease Specific Epitopes (DSEs) and/or DSE Antigenic Determinants 
 
 
   
    
    [0289]
     An epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 is conjugated to KLH for immunization of BALB/c mice to generate B cells reactive to the epitope. The epitope for immunization is selected from the group of peptides consisting of: GGGRLACGVIGIGSG (DSE1); GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a); CDLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2); CNPLSRKHGGPKDEE (DSE3); CIKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5); GSGKAVCVLK (DSE4); and CGLHGFHVH (DSE7). Alternatively a portion of any of the forementioned peptides comprising one or more antigenic determinants is conjugated to KLH, minimally comprising 3 or 5 contiguous amino acids of any of the peptide sequence that is immunogenic either alone or when coupled to KLH. 
     
    
    [0290]
     Mouse monoclonal antibody generation: 4 female BALB/c mice are initially immunized by intraperitoneal injections with 25 µg of protein antigen per mouse in Complete Freund's Adjuvant. Four subsequent boosts are administered as above, spaced at 3 week intervals, with Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant. When the serum titre has risen more than 10-fold from a pre-immune serum sample, as determined by ELISA, the 2 highest responders are each boosted intravenously with 10 µg of protein antigen, in 100 µl of sterile PBS pH 7.4. Three days later the donor mice are sacrificed and the spleen cells are harvested and pooled. Fusion of the splenocytes with SP2/0 BALB/c parental myeloma cells is performed as previously described as in example 1 above that one-step selection and cloning of the hybridomas is performed in Clone EZ medium. This semi-solid medium allows HAT selection and cloning in a single step and eliminates the overgrowth of slower growing desirable clones by faster growing, perhaps undesirable, hybridomas. Clones are picked 11 days post fusion and are resuspended in wells of 96-well tissue culture plates in: 200 µl of D-MEM (Invitogen) medium containing 20% fetal bovine serum. After 4 days, the supernatants are screened by indirect ELISA for antibody activity on plates coated with 1 µg/well of protein antigen. 
   
 
 ELISA conditions: 
 
 
   
    
    [0291]
       For screening and testing:  DSE-BSA antigen is coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 1µg/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0292]
       For testing on negative control antigen:  0.5µg/well HT (human transferrin) antigen is coated onto plate in dH 2 O at 50µL/well and dried down overnight at 37°C. 
     
    
    [0293]
       Blocking:  Plates are blocked with 3% skim milk powder in PBS (pH 7.4) at 100µL/well and are incubated for 1 hour at room temperature.
         1° antibody:  Mouse anti-DSE hybridoma tissue culture supernatant and mouse monoclonal controls are added at 100µL neat per well for screening and testing. Mouse anti-DSE-1a immune serum and mouse pre-immune serum diluted 1/800 in SP2/0 tissue culture supernatant are added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with shaking.     2° antibody used for screening and testing:  1/10000 Goat anti-mouse IgG Fc HRP conjugated is used. Secondary antibody is diluted in PBS-Tween (pH 7.4), added at 100µL/well and incubated for 1 hour at 37°C with shaking.   
   
    
    [0294]
       Substrate:  TMB buffer (BioFx cat# TMBW-1000-01) is added at 50µL per well and incubated in the dark at room temperature. The reaction is stopped with 50µL 1M HCl per well after 15 minutes and read at OD 450 nm. 
   
 
 Example 10 
 
 
 
 ELISA testing of antibody directed to DSE1a for affinity to denatured SOD1 
 
   
    
    [0295]
     Hybridoma clones producing antibodies directed to DSE1a (GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG) were screened by ELISA for specific reactivity to natively folded SOD1 (SOD1 in PBS) denatured or misfolded SOD1 (SOD1 in denaturation buffer with 6M GdnHCl), or natively folded and misfolded BSA control. 
     
    
    [0296]
     Table 7 shows the affinity of hybridoma clones to natively folded and misfolded SOD1. The absorbance of each sample was detected at 450nm (columns 2 - 5). Each sample was tested in duplicate. The values in columns 6 - 9 provide the average values of the affinity of each clone and the % difference between the two samples.  Column  10 represents the specific affinity of the antibody for the natively folded SOD1 (i.e. the affinity of the antibody for SOD1 minus the non-specific binding to the irrelevant protein BSA). Column 11 represents the specific affinity of the antibody for the unfolded SOD1 (i.e. the affinity of the antibody for SOD1 minus the non-specific binding for BSA). Column 12 provides the fold increase of the specific affinity for misfolded SOD1 over natively folded SOD1. These results demonstrate the specific affinity of monoclonal antibodies directed against DSE1a epitope for SOD1 and that the antibodies preferentially target misfolded forms of SOD1 with 2 - 4 fold higher affinity than for the natively folded form. 
     
    
    [0297]
     Clones 4H6, 6D8, 10C3 were selected for large scale production.
     TABLE 7: ELISA testing of DSE1a hybridoma clones to denatured SOD1.           1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9       10       11       12               SOD1           BSA           SOD1           BSA                                   Gdn           Gdn           Gdn           Gdn       S-N       S-N                   PBS       HCl       PBS       HCl       PBS       HCl       PBS       HCl       (F)       (U)       U/F           Clone                                                       3C1   0.423   0.712   0.144   0.170   0.417   0.662   0.145   0.178   0.256   0.501   1.961           0.410   0.612   0.145   0.185   2%   11%   0%   6%                   3C11   0.352   0.693   0.153   0.155   0.355   0.668   0.154   0.150   0.203   0.516   2.544           0.357   0.642   0.155   0.144   1%   5%   1%   5%                   3D2   0.364   0.727   0.134   0.130   0.357   0.690   0.127   0.125   0.231   0.564   2.442           0.349   0.652   0.119   0.119   3%   8%   8%   6%                   3D9   0.304   0.661   0.121   0.124   0.314   0.674   0.137   0.115   0.188   0.548   2.920           0.323   0.687   0.152   0.106   4%   3%   16%   11%                   3F1   0.354   0.585   0.140   0.146   0.327   0.577   0.133   0.131   0.195   0.445   2.284           0.299   0.568   0.125   0.116   12%   2%   8%   16%                   4B5   0.352   0.643   0.145   0.140   0.338   0.637   0.137   0.137   0.201   0.500   2.491           0.323   0.630   0.129   0.134   6%   1%   8%   3%                   4H6   0.334   0.615   0.156   0.122   0.332   0.626   0.135   0.122   0.203   0.498   2.451           0.329   0.637   0.114   0.122   1%   2%   22%   0%                   6D8   0.380   0.788   0.148   0.139   0.385   0.732   0.145   0.134   0.246   0.593   2.413           0.390   0.676   0.142   0.129   2%   11%   3%   5%                   9A4   0.305   0.634   0.144   0.127   0.302   0.604   0.133   0.125   0.173   0.475   2.740           0.299   0.573   0.122   0.122   1%   7%   12%   3%                   9A8   0.253   0.601   0.150   0.115   0.259   0.593   0.139   0.119   0.130   0.464   3.578           0.264   0.585   0.127   0.123   3%   2%   12%   5%                   10C3   0.284   0.609   0.153   0.117   0.282   0.628   0.229   0.112   0.112   0.458   4.085           0.280   0.646   0.304   0.106   1%   4%   47%   7%                   10C12   0.326   0.562   0.121   0.115   0.313   0.551   0.121   0.122   0.191   0.429   2.244           0.299   0.539   0.121   0.128   6%   3%   0%   8%                   Bkg   0.112   0.142   0.117   0.151   0.122   0.143   0.118   0.147                       0.132   0.144   0.118   0.143   12%   1%   1%   4%                       S = signal, N = noise, F= natively folded, U = unfolded/misfolded           
   
 
 Example 11 
 
 
 
 ELISA testing of antibody directed to DSE2 for affinity to denatured SOD1 
 
   
    
    [0298]
     Hybridoma clones producing antibodies directed to DSE2 (DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS) were screened by ELISA for specific reactivity to natively folded SOD1 (SOD1 in PBS) denatured or misfolded SOD1 (SOD1 in denaturation buffer with 6M GdnHCl), or natively folded and misfolded BSA control. 
     
    
    [0299]
     Table 8 shows the affinity of hybridoma clones to natively folded and unfolded SOD1. The absorbance of each sample was detected at 450nm (columns 2 - 5). Each sample was tested in duplicate. The values in columns 6 - 9 provide the average values of the affinity of each clone and the % difference between the two samples.  Column  10 represents the specific affinity of the antibody for the natively folded SOD1 (i.e. the affinity of the antibody for SOD1 minus the non-specific binding to BSA). Column 11 represents the specific affinity of the antibody for the misfolded SOD1 (i.e. the affinity of the antibody for SOD1 minus the non-specific binding to BSA). Column 12 provides the fold increase of the specific affinity for misfolded SOD1 over natively folded SOD1. These results demonstrate the specific affinity of monoclonal antibodies directed against DSE2 epitope for SOD1 and that the antibodies preferentially target unfolded forms of SOD1. 
     
    
    [0300]
     Clones 3H1, 5G5 and 8D1 were selected for large scale production.
     TABLE 8: ELISA testing of DSE2 hybridoma clones to denatured SOD1.         1     2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9       10       11       12               SOD1           BSA           SOD1           BSA                                           GdnH           GdnH           GdnH       S-N       S-N                   PBS       GdnHCl       PBS       Cl       PBS       Cl       PBS       Cl       (F)       (U)       U/F                                                                 2A9     0.321   0.593   0.125   0.137   0.316   0.589   0.116   0.141   0.187   0.460   2.460           0.31   0.584   0.107   0.145   2%   1%   11%   4%                     2A11     0.345   0.71   0.119   0.124   0.347   0.719   0.114   0.140   0.220   0.592   2.693           0.348   0.727   0.108   0.156   1%   2%   7%   16%                       3H1         0.257     2.189     0.161       0.165       0.410       2.145       0.156       0.164       0.251       1.986       7.926               0.563       2.101       0.15       0.162       53%       3%       5%       1%                                                                           5G5     0.308   1.032   0.22   0.145   0.307   0.879   0.171   0.149   0.147   0.719   4.881           0.306   0.725   0.122   0.152   0%   25%   41%   3%                                                                         5G12     0.346   0.604   0.124   0.131   0.309   0.583   0.135   0.122   0.181   0.455   2.516           0.272   0.562   0.145   0.113   17%   5%   11%   10%                                                                         6C3     0.325   0.67   0.129   0.126   0.317   0.673   0.126   0.136   0.187   0.543   2.909           0.309   0.676   0.122   0.145   4%   1%   4%   10%                                                                         6G12     0.29   0.414   0.125   0.114   0.293   0.558   0.112   0.111   0.181   0.446   2.462           0.295   0.701   0.099   0.107   1%   36%   16%   4%                                                                         7E10     0.34   0.787   0.199   0.179   0.331   0.761   0.171   0.158   0.166   0.597   3.589           0.321   0.735   0.142   0.137   4%   5%   24%   19%                                                                         7F8     0.366   0.605   0.131   0.121   0.327   0.612   0.135   0.121   0.199   0.484   2.430           0.288   0.619   0.138   0.121   17%   2%   4%   0%                                                                         8C9     0.354   0.701   0.131   0.132   0.347   0.713   0.122   0.135   0.218   0.584   2.679           0.339   0.724   0.113   0.138   3%   2%   10%   3%                                                                           8D1         0.516       1.626       0.185       0.167       0.465       1.768       0.173       0.180       0.288       1.591       5.520               0.413       1.909       0.161       0.192     16%     11 %   10%   10%                                                                         10F2     0.263   0.632   0.119   0.172   0.413   0.661   0.118   0.174   0.268   0.515   1.925           0.563   0.689   0.116   0.175   51%   6%   2%   1%                   Bkg   0.112   0.142   0.117   0.151   0.122   0.143   0.118   0.147                       0.132   0.144   0.118   0.143   12%   1%   1%   4%                       S = signal, N = noise, F= natively folded, U = unfolded/misfolded           
   
 
 Example 12 
 
 
 
 ELISA testing of antibody directed to DSE5 for affinity to denatured SOD1 
 
   
    
    [0301]
     Hyrbridoma clones producing antibodies directed to DSE5 (IKGLTEGLHGF) were screened by ELISA for specific reactivity to natively folded SOD1 (SOD1 in PBS) denatured or misfolded SOD1 (SOD1 in denaturation buffer GdnHCl), or natively folded and misfolded BSA control. 
     
    
    [0302]
     Table 9 shows the affinity of hybridoma clones to natively folded and misfolded SOD1. The absorbance of each sample was detected at 450nm (columns 2 - 5). Each sample was tested in duplicate. The values in columns 6 - 9 provide the average values of the affinity of each clone and the % difference between the two samples.  Column  10 represents the specific affinity of the antibody for the natively folded SOD1 (i.e. the affinity of the antibody for SOD1 minus the non-specific affinity for BSA). Column 11 represents the specific affinity of the antibody for the misfolded SOD1 (i.e. the affinity of the antibody for SOD1 minus the non-specific affinity for BSA). And column 12 provides the fold increase of the specific affinity for unfolded SOD1 over natively folded SOD1. These results demonstrate the specific affinity of monoclonal antibodies directed against DSE5 epitope for SOD1 and that the antibodies preferentially target misfolded forms of SOD1.
     TABLE 9: ELISA testing of hybridoma clone to denatured SOD1.         1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12             SOD1           BSA           SOD1           BSA                                   Gdn       Gdn       Gdn       Gdn   S-N   S-N               PBS   HCl   PBS   HCl   PBS   HCl   PBS   HCl   (F)   (U)   U/F         DSE                                     0.14                 5     0.272   0.622   0.122   0.188   0.279   0.626   0.113   0.163   1   0.488   3.457           0.286   0.629   0.104   0.138   4%   1%   11%   22%                                                                         Bkg     0.112   0.142   0.117   0.151   0.122   0.143   0.118   0.147                       0.132   0.144   0.118   0.143   12%   1%   1%   4%                       S = signal, N = noise, F= natively folded, U = unfolded/misfolded           
   
 
 Example 13 
 
 
 
 Recognition of oxidized SOD1 by antibodies directed against DSE2 
 
   
    
    [0303]
     Oxidative damage of enzymes occurs in neurodegenerative diseases, and oxidative damage to SOD1 results in misfolding and formation of aggregated SOD1. The inventors showed that antibodies directed against the DSE2 epitope (hybridoma clones 10E11C11 and 3H1) recognize such oxidatively modified SOD1 by incubating purified SOD1 with either 100 um to 10 mM H 2 O 2  or with a mixture of ascorbate and copperchloride. Both of these treatments are known to oxidize amino acids in SOD1. Subsequently, we allowed this oxidized SOD1 to bind to microtiter plate wells and added one of two different anti-DSE2 antibodies. For comparison, microtiter wells were coated with untreated and normally folded SOD1 in buffer, or with SOD1 that was denatured with a solution of a chaotropic agent (guanidinium chloride, GdnHCl). As shown in  Figure 2 , anti-DSE2 antibodies bind preferentially to misfolded SOD1 in GdnHCl but much less well to natively folded SOD1 in buffer. However, after oxidation, SOD1 is efficiently recognized by the anti-DSE2 antibodies. This demonstrates that anti-DSE2 (both 10E11C11 and 3H1) antibodies recognize the kind of oxidatively modified SOD1 that occurs in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. The results are presented in Table 10 below.
     
       
   
 
 Example 14 
 
 
 
 ALS-specific epitope prediction, synthesis, and refinement 
 
   
    
    [0304]
     Epitopes presented by misfolded SOD1 and not presented by native SOD1 may be determined by analyzing the structure of native SOD1 for sequence regions that are hidden by the normally folded native conformation of SOD1. For example, the DSE2 and DSE3 loops are inaccessible to antibody binding in the native structure of SOD1, but were shown to be extruded from the SOD1 active site in amyloid fibril and nanotube structures (84). Thus, exposure of these loops may be a marker of SOD1 misfolding, but they may also constitute "recruitment domains" of SOD1 that are involved in template directed misfolding of SOD1. The inventors identified DSE1, DSE4 and DSE 7 as putatively hidden sequences that could become accessible upon SOD1 misfolding. 
     
    
    [0305]
     Epitopes presented by misfolded SOD1 and not presented by native SOD1 may be predicted by analyzing sequence regions that have constrained structure. Constrained structures are less able to accommodate any changes in folding resulting in conformational changes in the sequence region and the presentation of accessible epitopes not present in the contrained structure. Epitopes DSE2, 3, 5, and 6 were predicted on this basis. 
     
    
    [0306]
     Peptide targets for misfolded aggregated SOD1 provide immunogens for the development of mouse monoclonal antibodies for biochemical characterization of epitope exposure were synthesized and characterized. These targets include the sequence:
       RLACGVIGI (DSE1);   DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2;   NPLSRKHGGPKDEE (DSE 3);   IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5);   HCIIGRTLVVH (DSE6);   GSGKAVCVLK (DSE4); and   CGLHGFHVH (DSE7).   
   
    
    [0307]
     DSE peptides were synthesized and conjugated to KLH (keyhole limpet hemocyanin). DSE peptides having an endogenous cysteine (DSE1, DSE1a, DSE4 and DSE6) were conjugated with KLH using the DMS method (Pierce reagent and method) for amino conjugation. DSE peptides not having an endogenous cysteine residue (DSE2, DSE3, DSE5 and DSE7) were conjugated with KLH using the sulfo-MBS method (Pierce reagent and method) for thiol group conjugation. 
     
    
    [0308]
     A "control" epitope exposed on the molecular surface of native normal SOD1 is optionally synthesized and characterized. A control epitope is optionally an epitope that is presented on both natively folded and misfolded SOD1. 
     
    
    [0309]
     The epitopes identified may have multiple antigenic determinants. Epitopes are further analysed to determine subportions of the peptides (e.g. discrete epitopes) that are immunogenic. Immunogenicity analysis of SOD1 including antigenicity plotting is used to identify discrete epitopes, isolated peptides corresponding to these discrete epitopes are synthesized and an immunogen comprising the isolated peptid corresponding to one or more of these discrete epitopes is used to generate antibodies. Antibodies are generated and tested as described in other Examples. 
     
    
    [0310]
     An example of an antigenicity plot is provided in  Figure 3 . The SOD1 amino acid sequence was subjected to the publicly available Hopps and Woods computerized method for predicting the locations of protein antigenic determinants ( Figure 3A ). In addition, the SOD1 sequence was subjected to the Kolaskar and Tongaonkar method (85) of antigenic determination prediction ( Figure 3B ). This latter method identified amino acids 4-11 (AVCVLKGD), amino acids 27-33 (GPVKVWG), amino acids 42 -48 (LHGFHVH), amino acids 93-121 GVADVSIEDSVISLSGDHCIIGRTLVVHE and amino acids 142 -149 (SRLACGVI) of SOD1 (SEQ ID NO: 15) as antigenic. 
     
    
    [0311]
     Additional modifications to the isolated peptide sequences corresponding to the disclosed epitopes or to the identified discrete epitopes are made to enhance immunogenicity. For example, a cysteine residue within the isolated peptide may be oxidized to cysteic acid. An example is DSE1a where the cysteine present in DSE1 is replaced with oxidized cysteine in the form cysteic acid and used to raise antibodies. 
   
 
 Example 15 
 
 
 
 Analog Epitopes 
 
   
    
    [0312]
     Analog epitope peptides are synthesized incorporating one or more oxidized or nitrated amino acids according to the list below. The cysteine (C) residue in DSE1 is oxidized to cysteine sulfinic acid or cysteic acid (i.e. DSE1a). The lysine (K) residue in DSE2 is oxidized to a carbonyl group. One or more of the arginine (R), lysine (K) and histidine (H) residues in DSE3 are oxidized to form a carbonyl group. In DSE4 lysine (K) is oxidized to a carbonyl group and/or cysteine (C) is oxidized to cysteine sulfinic acid or cysteic acid. In DSE5 one or more of K and H, are oxidized to a carbonyl group and/of phenylalanine is nitrated to nitrotryptophan. In DSE6, one or more of H or R is oxidized to a carbonyl group and/or C is oxidized to cysteine sulfinic acid or cysteic acid. In DSE7, H is oxidized to a carbonyl group and/or F is nitrated to nitrotryptophan.
       DSE1: 145-151, RLACGVIGI: C   DSE2: 125-142, DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS: K   DSE3: 65-78, NPLSRKHGGPKDEE: R, K, H   DSE4: 3-9, KAVCVLK: K, C   DSE5: 35-45, IKGLTEGLHGF: K, H, F   DSE6: 110-120, HCIIGRTLVVH: H, C, R   DSE7: 41-48, GLHGFHVH: H, F   C: cysteine, is oxidized to cysteine sulfinic acid, and then further   oxidized to cysteic acid.   H, R, K: carbonyl formation   M: oxidation, methionesulfoxide   F: nitration, nitrotryptophan   
   
    
    [0313]
     Synthesized peptide analogs are used as immunogens to raise antibodies, such as monoclonal antibodies and for treating individuals having a misfolded SOD-1 mediated disease such as ALS, AD and/or PD. Antibodies are screened against the immunizing peptide analog for specificity. Positive clones are further tested for their ability to recognize misfolded SOD1. Antibodies that specifically recognize SOD1 are humanized and used to treat individuals having a misfolded SOD-1 mediated disease such as ALS, AD and/or PD. 
   
 
 Example 16 
 
 
 
 Immunoprecipitation of Brain Tissue 
 
   
    
    [0314]
     Brain tissue from patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease or ALS, and matched-controls are obtained. The samples are immediately frozen on dry ice and weighed. Frozen tissue is cut into smaller pieces and homogenized (10%w/v) in lysis buffer (100mM NaCl, 10mM EDTA, 10mM Tris, 0.5% deoxycholate, 0.5% NP-40, pH 7.4) and 1x Roche EDTA-free Complete Protease Inhibitor (Roche) solution with a pellet-pestle homogenizer. This homogenate is centrifuged at 2000xg; the supernatant is referred to as the 'soluble fraction' and the pellet fraction is referred to as the 'insoluble fraction'. Tissue homogenates are immediately aliquoted and frozen at -80°C prior to use. For experiments with the insoluble fraction, the pellet is resuspended in lysis buffer. Protein concentration is determined using the BCA protein assay (Pierce). 100µg of protein, diluted to 1ml with PBS containing 1x protease inhibitors is immunoprecipitated with 5-10µg of a monoclonal antibody that bind to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 coupled to Dynabeads M-280 Tosyl-activated magnetic beads (Dynal Biotech, Oslo, Norway) according to the manufacturer's instructions. 
     
    
    [0315]
     Antibodies that bind to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 include SEDI SOD (anti-DSE1) disclosed in United States Patent Application No.    60/741,462   . This antibody is specific for the epitope comprising the sequence RLACGVIGI. 
     
    
    [0316]
     Briefly, 100µg of SEDI SOD IgG is dialyzed against 3 changes of PBS. This is incubated with 300µl of pre-washed stock magnetic beads in PBS at 4°C for a minimum of 96hrs. This is followed by blocking with 0.1% BSA in 0.2M Tris, pH 8.5 for 24 hrs at 4°C. In an alternative protocol, Protein G sepharose beads (Sigma) are used to precipitate SEDI SOD IgG. 
     
    
    [0317]
     In an alternative protocol, other antibodies that bind to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 are used in the immunoprecipitation experiments, including the epitopes disclosed in    WO 2005/019828    (DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS and NPLSRKHGGPKDEE), and antibodies thereto, raised for instance as described in United States Patent Application No.    60/778,379, filed March 3, 2006   , and the epitopes disclosed in Khare et al. (8) (IKGLTEGLHGF and HCIIGRTLVVH). 
   
 
 Example 17 
 
 
 
 Immunoprecipitation and Detection of Misfolded SOD1 from Brain Tissue 
 
   
    
    [0318]
     Brain tissues from a normal human patient, a wildtype mouse, a transgenic mouse over-expressing wildtype human SOD1 and a G93A model mouse for ALS, expressing a misfolded form of SOD1 were obtained. The samples were immediately frozen on dry ice and weighed. Frozen tissue was cut into smaller pieces and homogenized (10%w/v) in lysis buffer (100mM NaCl, 10mM EDTA, 10mM Tris, 0.5% deoxycholate, 0.5% NP-40, pH 7.4) and 1x Roche EDTA-free Complete Protease Inhibitor (Roche) solution with a pellet-pestle homogenizer. This homogenate was centrifuged at 2000xg; the supernatant was referred to as the 'soluble fraction' and the pellet fraction was referred to as the 'insoluble fraction'. Tissue homogenates were immediately aliquoted and frozen at -80°C prior to use. For experiments with the insoluble fraction, the pellet was resuspended in lysis buffer. Protein concentration was determined using the BCA protein assay (Pierce). 100µg of protein, diluted to 1ml with PBS containing 1x protease inhibitors was immunoprecipitated with 5-10µg of a monoclonal antibody that bound to DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS, an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1, coupled to Dynabeads M-280 Tosyl-activated magnetic beads (Dynal Biotech, Oslo, Norway) according to the manufacturer's instructions. 
     
    
    [0319]
     For immunoblotting, an antibody directed to DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS was used to detect SOD1 from cellular proteins of brain tissue samples that have been resolved by gel electrophoresis. 
     
    
    [0320]
     As demonstrated in  Figure 4 , an antibody directed to DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) immunoprecipitated a misfolded form of SOD1 in brain tissues of G93A mutant mice, and to a much lesser extent over-expressed wildtype human SOD1. This antibody did not immunoprecipitate native forms of mouse or human SOD1. However, the antibody directed to DSE2 recognized denatured human and mouse SOD1 by direct immunoblotting. 
     
    
    [0321]
     In an alternative protocol, other antibodies that bind to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 are used in the immunoprecipitation experiments, including the epitopes disclosed in    WO 2005/019828    (NPLSRKHGGPKDEE), and antibodies thereto, raised for instance as described in United States Patent Application No.    60/778,379, filed March 3, 2006   , and the epitopes disclosed in Khare et al. (8) (IKGLTEGLHGF and HCIIGRTLVVH). 
   
 
 Example 18 
 
 
 
 Immunohistochemistry of Brain Tissue 
 
   
    
    [0322]
     Brain tissue from patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease or ALS, and matched-controls are obtained. The samples are incubated with 10% methanol free phosphate buffered formalin (Fisher Scientific). The tissue samples are dissected, paraffin-embedded and 6µm sections cut either longitudinally or transversely using a rotary microtome. All sections for immunohistochemistry are treated with 3% H 2 O 2  (v/v) and 10mM sodium citrate buffer, pH 6.0 prior to labeling. Antibodies that bind to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 are used. In all cases primary antibodies are left to react overnight at 4°C. Sections are developed using the DakoCytomation Envison™ System according to the manufacturer's instructions using 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) as chromagen. For double-labeling the DakoCytomation Envison™ DoubleStain kit is used with nitro-blue tetrazolium (NBT) as chromagen. Stained sections are visualized using a Leica DM 6000 microscope and digital images are obtained with a Micropublisher 3.3 RTV digital color camera (Qimaging). 
   
 
 Example 19 
 
 
 
 Immunohistochemistry of Brain Tissue from Alzheimer's disease 
 
   
    
    [0323]
     Tissues were prepared by formalin fixing and were embedded in paraffin. Tissues were sectioned (4 microns), mounted on charged microscope slides and heated in a tissue drying oven for 45 minutes at 60°C. Slides were deparafiinized by washing slides in xylene ( 3X  5 mins) and rehydrated by washing slides in decreasing concentrations of alcohol (3X 3mins using 100% alcohol; 2X 3mins using 95% alcohol;  1X  3 mins using 80% alcohol) and distilled water. Slides were steamed in 0.01 M sodium citrate buffer, at pH 6.0 at 99-100°C for 20 mins and incubated at RT for 20 mins. Slides were reinsed in 1X TBS with Tween (TBST) for 1 minute at RT. 
     
    
    [0324]
     Slides were incubated with a protein block for 20 mins, probed with primary antibody for 45 minutes, and rinsed with TBST. Slides were incubated with a biotinylated secondary antibody for 30 min and then rinsed with TBST. Slides were next incubated in alkaline phosphatase streptavidin for 30 minutes, rinsed in TBST and incubated with substrate for 30 mins. After rinsing in distilled water, slides wer examined by microscopy. 
     
    
    [0325]
     Brain hippocampus tissue from the autopsy of a 78 year old female patient diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and -control normal hippocampus tissue from a 52 year old female were obtained. The samples were incubated with 10% methanol free phosphate buffered formalin (Fisher Scientific). The tissue samples were dissected, paraffin-embedded and 6µm sections cut either longitudinally or transversely using a rotary microtome. All sections for immunohistochemistry were treated with 3% H 2 O 2  (v/v) and 10mM sodium citrate buffer, pH 6.0 prior to labeling. An antibody specific for the Alzheimer's disease-specific eptiope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) was used as the primary antibody to stain the tissue sections at a concentration of 5 µg/ml ( Figure5 ). The antibodies were left to react overnight at 4°C. Sections were developed using the DakoCytomation Envison™ System according to the manufacturer's instructions using 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) as chromagen. For double-labeling the DakoCytomation Envison™ DoubleStain kit was used with nitro-blue tetrazolium (NBT) as chromagen. Stained sections were visualized using a Leica DM 6000 microscope and digital images were obtained with a Micropublisher 3.3 RTV digital color camera (Qimaging). The hippocampus section obtained from a 78-year-old female with late-stage Alzheimer's disease showed strong staining of senile plaques in the Alzheimer's brain with the antibody directed against DSE2 ( Figure 5B , left panel), as well as increased staining within subsets of neurons in the Alzheimer's hippocampus section ( Figure 5B , right panel) compared to the normal hippocampus ( Figure 5A ). 
     
    
    [0326]
     These data demonstrate misfolded SOD1 is present intracellularly and extracellularly in brains of Alzheimer's patients and that the antibody directed against the DSE2 epitope CDLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS recognizes misfolded SOD1 proteins found in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. 
   
 
 Example 20 
 
 
 
 Immunohistochemistry of Brain Tissue from Parkinson's disease 
 
   
    
    [0327]
     Tissues were prepared by formalin fixing and were embedded in paraffin. Tissues were sectioned (4 microns), mounted on charged microscope slides and heated in a tissue drying oven for 45 minutes at 60°C. Slides were deparafiinized by washing slides in xylene ( 3X  5 mins) and rehydrated by washing slides in decreasing concentrations of alcohol (3X 3mins using 100% alcohol; 2X 3mins using 95% alcohol;  1X  3 mins using 80% alcohol) and distilled water. Slides were steamed in 0.01 M sodium citrate buffer, at pH 6.0 at 99-100°C for 20 mins and incubated at RT for 20 mins. Slides were reinsed in 1X TBS with Tween (TBST) for 1 minute at RT. 
     
    
    [0328]
     Slides were incubated with a protein block for 20 mins, probed with primary antibody for 45 minutes, and rinsed with TBST. Slides were incubated with a biotinylated secondary antibody for 30 min and then rinsed with TBST. Slides were next incubated in alkaline phosphatase streptavidin for 30 minutes, rinsed in TBST and incubated with substrate for 30 mins. After rinsing in distilled water, slides wer examined by microscopy. 
     
    
    [0329]
     A brain sample was obtained from a 79-year-old female with dementia. The H&E-stained section ( Figure 6 , panel A) showed substantia nigra with dopaminergic neurons that showed occasional Lewy bodies consistent with Parkinson's disease. The anti-DSE2 antibody showed mostly negative to rare faint staining in pigmented and non-pigmented neurons within the substantia nigra ( Figure 6 , panel B, C, D, and E). Lewy bodies were negative ( Figure 6 , panel B). Adjacent neuropil was faintly positive, and astrocytes were faintly to occasionally moderately positive. Corpora amylacea were strongly positive. This sample showed rare senile plaques in the adjacent gray matter that were strongly positive ( Figure 6 , panel F). Adjacent serial sections were evaluated in the absence of primary antibody as a control and were all negative. 
     
    
    [0330]
     These data demonstrate misfolded SOD1 is present in brains of Parkinson's patients and that the antibody directed against the DSE2 epitope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS recognizes misfolded SOD1 proteins found in the brains of Parkinsons's disease patients. 
   
 
 Example 21 
 
 
 
 Immunoreactivity of SOD1 DSE2 in disease 
 
   
    
    [0331]
     The inventors have detected DSE2 immunoreactivity in all types of ALS (sporadic forms, as well as SOD1 familial ALS and familial ALS without SOD1 mutations). Immunoreactivity is detectable as discrete dense deposits within some spinal cord motor neurons, including motor axons in the ventral root, as well as extracellular punctuate deposits within the anterior horns of the spinal cord, and within motor tract axons. Moreover, DSE2 immunoreactivity is detectable intracellularly in hippocampal neurons in AD but not normal aged-matched individuals. Moreover, DSE2 immunoreactivity is also noted in regionally diffuse in senile plaques and punctuate deposits extracellularly in the hippocampus. Extracellular misfolded SOD1 in neurodegenerative diseases is clearly a target for immunotherapy, which may "neutralize" the toxic activity of the misfolded species by accelerating degradation by microglia, and/or by blocking abnormal enzymatic activity of this misfolded protein. 
   
 
 Example 22 
 
 
 
 ALS-specific epitope immunization of ALS model mice. 
 
   
    
    [0332]
     This study shows that vaccination with specific peptide sequences from the enzyme superoxide dismutase one (SOD1) prevents the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). 
     
    
    [0333]
     Transgenic mice expressing human mutant SOD1 G93A and G37R are immunized IP with KLH-coupled amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope and control peptides every month prior to motor neuron disease onset (4 months and 6 months, respectively). Delay or abrogation of SOD aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active epitopes, and potential autoimmune manifestations for the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes and control epitopes are monitored. 
     
    
    [0334]
     These methods are used with G93A and G37R model mice. G93A and G37R model mice express certain mutant forms of the human SOD1 protein and develop an ALS-like disease clinically and neuropathologically. Seventy-two of each model mice are used for this study. Seven different ALS-specific peptide epitopes to non-native forms of SOD1 are tested and compared to 2 control groups (one untreated, and one treated with adjuvant alone). Each group consisted of 8 animals. 
     
    
    [0335]
     Four-week old hemizygous transgenic mice (transgene and copy number confirmed by PCR and southern blot) are randomized into one of nine groups for immunization: no immunization (Nl); Keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) alone plus adjuvant; or one of seven SOD1 DSE peptide sequences. All peptides are synthesized, purified and coupled to KLH using SMCC-Sulfolink. All mice are immunized initially via intraperitoneal (IP) injection with 100 µg of KLH-coupled peptide or KLH alone, emulsified 1:1 in Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA), in a total volume injected of 100 µl. Three weeks later the mice are given a subcutaneous injection of KLH-coupled peptide emulsified in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA). Thereafter, mice are given monthly subcutaneous injections of KLH-coupled peptide emulsified in IFA. After 4 immunizations, 100µl of blood is collected from the saphenous vein, and plasma antibody titers are determined. 
     
    
    [0336]
     Animals are weighed 2-3 times per week. Leg extension reflex is assessed when animals are lifted by the base of the tail and removed from their cage for weighing. Reduction in leg extension is an early deficit observed in mutant SOD1 transgenic mice. Mice behaviour is monitored weekly using open field testing (EthoVision, Noldus Information Technology, Leesburg, VA, USA) and gait analysis is done weekly using DigiGait. Initial behavioral and gait assessments are completed just prior to the first immunization and serve as baseline data. 
     
    
    [0337]
     Brain, spinal cord and other non-CNS organ systems are analyzed postmortem for morphological and biochemical indices of neurodegeneration. 
     
    
    [0338]
     Animals are weighed and monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress that might be a result of the immunizations. Autoimmunity is also monitored. 
     
    
    [0339]
     Vaccination with ALS-specific peptide epitopes prevents the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Delay or abrogation of SOD aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active epitopes, and not for controls. 
   
 
 Example 23 
 
 
 
 ALS-specific epitope immunization of ALS model mice. 
 
   
    
    [0340]
     Four-week old G93A or G37R model are randomized into one of seven groups for immunization: saline; Keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH); DSE1; DSE1a; DSE2; DSE5; and DSE1a + DSE2 + DSE5. All peptides are conjugated to KLH. All immunization are administered in conjunction with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. 
     
    
    [0341]
     Animals are assessed for changes in leg extension reflex, behaviour and gait. Brain, spinal cord and other non-CNS organ systems are analyzed postmortem for morphological and biochemical indices of neurodegeneration. 
     
    
    [0342]
     Vaccination with a nucleic acid encoding an ALS specific epitope prevents the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Delay or abrogation of SOD aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active nucleic acids, and not for controls. 
   
 
 Example 24 
 
 
 
 Immunization of ALS model mice with nucleic acid. 
 
   
    
    [0343]
     Four-week old G93A and G37R model mice are randomized for immunization with a nucleic acids encoding an ALS-specific epitope or an unrelated control nucleic acid. All nucleic acids are administered with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. 
     
    
    [0344]
     Animals are assessed for changes in leg extension reflex, behaviour and gait. Brain, spinal cord and other non-CNS organ systems are analyzed postmortem for morphological and biochemical indices of neurodegeneration. 
     
    
    [0345]
     Vaccination with a nucleic acid encoding an ALS specific epitope prevents the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Delay or abrogation of SOD aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active nucleic acids, and not for controls. 
   
 
 Example 25 
 
 
 
 ALS-specific epitope antibody infusion of ALS model mice. 
 
   
    
    [0346]
     G93A and G37R mice are infused intravenously (IV) with monoclonal antibodies directed against the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes upon disease onset, to more closely model ALS immunotherapy. Slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies, with no effect from isotype control antibodies. Autoimmunity is monitored for the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitope and control antibodies, including native-exposed epitope. 
     
    
    [0347]
     G93A and G37R model mice express certain mutant forms of the human SOD1 protein and develop an ALS-like disease clinically and neuropathologically. Thirty-two mice of each strain are used for this study, with 8 mice randomized to each of 2 antibodies directed to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 treatment groups and 2 control groups. Eight-week old mice are randomized into one of 4 groups: 1. An antibody directed to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 injected intraperitoneal (IP); 2. An antibody directed to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 infused intracerebroventricular (ICV); 3. PBS injected IP (control); and 4. Phosphate buffered saline (PBS) infused ICV (control). 
     
    
    [0348]
     Mice receive weekly IP injections of 1ml of purified antibody in PBS (250µL/ml) or PBS alone. For ICV infusion, mice are anaesthetized with isoflurane gas delivered by a nosepiece, and implanted with mini-osmotic pumps (Alzet model no. 2004; length: 3cm, total volume: 200uL, flow rate: 0.25uL/hr). This pump provides steady infusion of 0.125ug/hr (a total of 25ug per week) for at least 4 weeks. Pumps containing either purified DSE2 antibody or PBS are fitted to a brain infusion kit (Alzet brain infusion kit 3), using a cannula placed in the third ventricle. Pumps are replaced after 4 weeks of use. 
     
    
    [0349]
     Mice are weighed and assessed for motor function and behaviour prior to IP injections or implantation of pumps to serve as baseline data. Thereafter these tests are performed once per week. Tests include:
       a.) HINDLIMB EXTENSION REFLEX: Reduction in hindlimb extension when animals are lifted by the tail is an early deficit observed in mutant SOD1 transgenic mice. Animals are lifted by the base of the tail and hindlimb extension and postural reflexes and scored.  Score  3 indicates full extension and normal postural reflex.  Score  2 indicates moderate extension and normal postural reflex. Score 1 indicates poor extension and postural reflex.  Score  0 indicates no hindlimb movement.   b.) OPEN FIELD TESTING: Open field testing are done weekly using EthoVision Pro Version 3.1(Noldus Information Technology, Leesburg, VA, USA). Animals are placed in an enclosed circular arena (50cm diameter) with an open top and recorded for approximately 5 minutes with an overhead digital video camera. A number of behavioural parameters are quantified offline. Four animals are monitored simultaneously in separate arenas.   c.) GAIT ANALYSIS: Gait analysis are done weekly using DigiGait (Mouse Specifics, Boston, MA, USA). Changes in paw placement and stride length are reported as being the earliest functional changes observed in G93A B6.Cg-Tg SOD1 transgenic mice, as assessed using DigiGait.   
   
    
    [0350]
     At 12 weeks of age, 100µl of blood are collected from the mice via the saphenous vein and plasma antibody titers are determined. For ICV treated mice, blood is collected under anaesthesia when pumps are replaced. IP treated mice are also anaesthetized with isoflurane to facilitate blood collection. 
     
    
    [0351]
     Animals are weighed and monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress for the duration of the study. Animals that appear to be in pain are administered Buprenorphine. 
     
    
    [0352]
     Brain, spinal cord and other non-CNS organ systems are analyzed postmortem for morphological and biochemical indices of neurodegeneration 
     
    
    [0353]
     Injection or infusion of antibodies directed to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 is effective in treating the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Treatment of G93A and G37R model mice these mice via injection or infusion of antibodies directed to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 have: neutralized and cleared mutant SOD1; prevented the formation of SOD1 aggregates; delayed the onset of disease; and/or slowed progression of the disease. 
   
 
 Example 26 
 
 
 
 Treatment of G93A mice with DSE2 antibody 
 
   
    
    [0354]
     G93A model mice were infused with a monoclonal antibodies directed against the DSE2 peptide sequence. G93A model mice express a mutant forms of the human SOD1 protein and develop an ALS-like disease clinically and neuropathologically. The antibody was administered either by intracebroventricular (ICV) infusion, using a brain catheter (Alzet® Catheters) and a subcutaneously implanted pump (Alzet® Osmotic Pumps), or by intraperitoneal injection of anti-DSE2 antibody. 
     
    
    [0355]
     For ICV infusion, 8 animals were randomly assigned to either the treatment group (4 animals) or the control group (4 animals). For treatment, Alzet pumps were filled with 200 ul antibody solution (0.5 to 0.6 mg/ml) in saline, or saline alone for control. Antibody was delivered at a flow rate of 0.125 ug/hr for 4 weeks. 2 additional mice were infused by intraperitoneal (IP) injection with 1 mg anti-DSE2 antibody, followed by 3 additional injections of 1 mg anti-DSE2 antibody in saline solution in weekly intervals. 2 mice were control injected with saline solution without antibody. 
     
    
    [0356]
     Disease progression in treated and untreated mice was monitored using gait analysis (DigiGait, Mouse Specifics Inc, Boston, MA). Digigait analysis allows for highly accurate measurement of changes in gait parameters in this mouse model that allow for a very accurate and objective assessment of disease progression ( Wooley CM, Sher RB, Kale A, Frankel WN, Cox GA, Seburn KL.; Gait analysis detects early changes in transgenic SOD1 (G93A) mice. Muscle Nerve. 2005 Jul;32(1):43-50 ). As disease progresses, stride time increases. The inventors have found that the stride time is a sensitive parameter to measure disease progression. 
     
    
    [0357]
     Table 11 shows the results of stride time measurements using Digigait analysis of treated animals after 25 days of treatement (IP injection) and 28 to 35 days of treatment (ICV infusion). Stride time is measured in seconds and averaged over the length of the study and all four paws. Stride time averaged 0.3238 second in control ICV infused. Disease progression, as measured by stride time is significantly, delayed after 35 days of treatment. Stride time is less in treated animals and is reduced to 0.2988 seconds. Stride time is also improved in IP injected mice. Stride time averaged 0.3366s for control animals and improved to 0.3206s after 28 days treatment. 
     
    
    [0358]
     For comparison and to demonstrate the effect of disease progression, the stride time for untreated mice at an average of 66 and 122 days of age was determined (animal age in the same range as treatment groups). At 66 days, untreated mice have an average stride time of 0.3254s (STDEV 0.0313). At 122 days stride time has increased to 0.3492s (STDEV 0.0288) Clearly, in the absence of treatment, this parameter increases with high statistical significance. The inventors found that both methods of treatment reverse the lengthening of the stride time that is observed in the untreated animals over time. This demonstrates the efficacy of this antibody treatment to reverse the disease associated phenotype of the ALS mouse model.
     Table 11. Delay in Disease Progression: Stride Time of Animals Treated with Disease Specific SOD1 Antibodies                     Stride       Study   Group       Time (s)                             ICV Infusion   Treatment   Average   0.2988s               STDEV   0.0044           Control   Average   0.3238s               STDEV   0.0449               P value   4.30E-02                           IP Injection   Treatment   Average   0.3206s               STDEV   0.0044           Control   Average   0.3366s               STDEV   0.0148               P value   1.82E-02                           Disease Progression   66 days   Average   0.3254s               STDEV   0.0313           122 days   Average   0.3492s               STDEV   0.0288               P value   1.04E-05           
   
 
 Example 27 
 
 
 
 Immunization of TgCRND8 Transgenic Mice 
 
   
    
    [0359]
     The TgCRND8 mouse is a murine model of Alzheimer's disease. These mice express a mutant (K670N/M671L and V717F) human βAPP695 transgene under the regulation of the Syrian hamster prion promoter on a C3H/B6 strain background. These mice have spatial learning defects at 3 months of age that are accompanied by both increasing levels of SDS-soluble Aβ and increasing numbers of Aβ-containing amyloid plaques in the brain. See Janus C et al. (65). 
     
    
    [0360]
     TgCRND8 mice are immunized IP with KLH-coupled to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 or a control peptide at 6, 8, 12, 16 and 20 weeks. 
     
    
    [0361]
     The mice are tested in a reference memory version of the Morris water maze test at 11, 15, 19 and 23 weeks (See Janus C et al. (65); Janus C (66); Gass P et al. (67); and Wehner JM (68)). 
     
    
    [0362]
     Delay or abrogation of SOD1 aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active epitope, and autoimmune manifestations are monitored. In addition to SOD1 aggregation, deposition of cerebral fibrillar Aβ is assessed (See Janus C et al. (65)). 
   
 
 Example 28 
 
 
 
 Antibody Infusion of TgCRND8 Transgenic Mice 
 
   
    
    [0363]
     TgCRND8 mice are infused with antibodies that bind to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 or isotype control antibodies. As described above, the mice are tested in a reference memory version of the Morris water maze test. 
     
    
    [0364]
     Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation and disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies, with no effect from isotype control antibodies. Autoimmunity is monitored. 
     
    
    [0365]
     In addition to SOD1 aggregation, deposition of cerebral fibrillar Aβ is assessed (See Janus C et al. (65)). 
   
 
 Example 29 
 
 
 
 Immunization of TgCRND8 Transgenic Mice with nucleic acid 
 
   
    
    [0366]
     The TgCRND8 mouse is a murine model of Alzheimer's disease. These mice express a mutant (K670N/M671L and V717F) human βAPP695 transgene under the regulation of the Syrian hamster prion promoter on a C3H/B6 strain background. These mice have spatial learning defects at 3 months of age that are accompanied by both increasing levels of SDS-soluble Aβ and increasing numbers of Aβ-containing amyloid plaques in the brain. See Janus C et al. (65). 
     
    
    [0367]
     TgCRND8 mice are immunized IP with KLH-coupled to a nucleic acid encoding an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 or a control nucleic acid at 6, 8, 12, 16 and 20 weeks. 
     
    
    [0368]
     The mice are tested in a reference memory version of the Morris water maze test at 11, 15, 19 and 23 weeks (See Janus C et al. (65); Janus C (66); Gass P et al. (67); and Wehner JM (68)). In addition to SOD1 aggregation, deposition of cerebral fibrillar Aβ can be assessed (See Janus C et al. (65)). 
     
    
    [0369]
     Vaccination with a nucleic acid encoding an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 prevents Alzheimer's disease. Delay or abrogation of SOD1 aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active nucleic acid, and not for controls. 
   
 
 Example 30 
 
 
 
 Immunization of Hα-Syn Tg Mice 
 
   
    
    [0370]
     Heterozygous transgenic mice expressing  hα-syn  under regulatory control of the platelet-derived growth factor-β promoter are used (Masliah E et al. (69)). These animals are used because they are a model for Parkinson's disease and Lewy Body disease (Masliah E et al. 70)). 
     
    
    [0371]
     The hα-syn tg mice are immunized IP with KLH-coupled to an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 or a control peptide at 2, 6, 8, 12, 16 and 20 weeks. 
     
    
    [0372]
     Delay or abrogation of SOD1 aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active epitope, and autoimmune manifestations are monitored. 
     
    
    [0373]
     The progression of the disease is assessed by monitoring the accumulation of hα-syn in the brain of the mice and clinical features of neurological involvement (See Masliah E et al. (70)). 
   
 
 Example 31 
 
 
 
 Immunization of Hα-Syn Tg Mice with nucleic acid 
 
   
    
    [0374]
     Heterozygous transgenic mice expressing hα-syn under regulatory control of the platelet-derived growth factor-β promoter are used (Masliah E et al. (69)). These animals are used because they are a model for Parkinson's disease and Lewy Body disease (Masliah E et al. 70)). 
     
    
    [0375]
     The hα-syn transgenic mice are immunized IP with a nucleic acid encoding an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 or a control nucleic acid at 2, 6, 8, 12, 16 and 20 weeks. 
     
    
    [0376]
     The progression of the disease is assessed by monitoring the accumulation of hα-syn in the brain of the mice and clinical features of neurological involvement (See Masliah E et al. (70)). 
     
    
    [0377]
     Vaccination with a nucleic acid encoding an epitope selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 prevents Parkinson's disease. Delay or abrogation of SOD1 aggregation and disease onset occurs for therapeutically active nucleic acid, and not for controls. 
   
 
 Example 32 
 
 
 
 Antibody Infusion of Hα-syn tg Mice 
 
   
    
    [0378]
     The hα-syn tg mice are infused with antibodies that bind to epitopes selectively presented or accessible in non-native forms of SOD1 or isotype control antibodies. 
     
    
    [0379]
     Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation and disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies, with no effect from isotype control antibodies. Autoimmunity is monitored. 
     
    
    [0380]
     The progression of the disease is assessed by monitoring the accumulation of hα-syn in the brain of the mice and clinical features of neurological involvement (See Masliah E et al. (70)). 
   
 
 Example 33 
 
 
 
 Administration of isolated peptides to ALS patients 
 
   
    
    [0381]
     Compositions comprising ALS-specific epitopes such as GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a), DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) and IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5) are administered to human ALS patients. The compositions are administered to ALS patients. 
     
    
    [0382]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. 
     
    
    [0383]
     Subjects are monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress that might be a result of the immunizations. Autoimmune manifestations are monitored. 
     
    
    [0384]
     Administration of the ALS-specific epitopes GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a), DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) and IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5) slows the progression of ALS. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active epitopes. 
   
 
 Example 34 
 
 
 
 Administration to ALS patients: antibodies 
 
   
    
    [0385]
     Antibodies directed against the ALS-specific epitopes comprising of GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a), DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) and IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5) are administered to human ALS patients. The antibodies are administered to the subjects at 6, 8, 12, 16 and 20 weeks. 
     
    
    [0386]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. Autoimmune manifestations are also monitored. 
     
    
    [0387]
     Subjects are monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress that might be a result of the immunizations. Autoimmune manifestations are monitored. 
     
    
    [0388]
     Administration of antibodies directed against the ALS-specifc epitopes GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a), DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) and IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5) slows the progression of ALS. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies. 
   
 
 Example 35 
 
 
 
 Administration of humanized antibodies to ALS patients 
 
   
    
    [0389]
     Humanized antibodies directed against amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-specific epitopes are administered to human ALS patients. Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. Administration of a humanized antibody directed to a ALS disease specific epitope slows the progression ALS disease in patients. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies. 
     
    
    [0390]
     Humanized antibodies directed against the ALS-specific epitopes comprising GGGRLAC*GVIGIGSG (DSE1a), DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) and IKGLTEGLHGF (DSE5) peptidesare administered to human ALS patients. A pharmaceutical composition comprising 1-140 grams (upto 2 grams/kilo) of the humanized antibodies is administered by intravenous infusion to produce a local concentration that ranges from 1 to 10 micrograms per ml in the CNS. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one ALS-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different ALS-specific epitope. The dosing regimen will vary on the the physiological condition of the patients and the response of the patient to treatment. In one dosing regimen, the dosing is once every 3 or 4 weeks. In other regimens, dosing is once per week, twice per week, three times per week, or once per 2 weeks. 
   
 
 Example 36 
 
 
 
 Intraventricular or Intrathecal Administration of humanized antibodies to ALS patients 
 
   
    
    [0391]
     Humanized antibodies against ALS-specific epitopes are directly administered into the CNS of ALS patients by intraventricular or intrathecal infusion using an infusion pump such as the infusion pumps produced by MedTronics (Minneapolis, MN, USA). ALS patients are infused with 0.5 to 5 mg per day of humanized antibody to obtain an end concentration of 1-10 micrograms per ml in the CNS infused at a maximal rate of 1 ml/h. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one ALS-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different ALS-specific epitope. 
     
    
    [0392]
     When humanized antibodies are administered to ALS patients by intrathecal injection an equal volume of cerebrospinal fluid is withdrawn through the same needle used for the injection to avoid an increase in pressure due to the injection volume. Subjects are given a dose that ranges from 1% to 10% of the corresponding systemic dose. Subjects receive a single dose of the humanized antibody formulation. Alternatively, subjects receive multiple doses of the humanized antibody formulation. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one ALS-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different ALS-specific epitope. In alternate regimens, dosing is once per week, twice per week, three times per week, once every two weeks, once every three weeks or once every month. In another regimen, the dosing varies depending on the physiological condition of the subject and the response of the subject to the treatment. 
     
    
    [0393]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. Administration of a humanized antibody directed to a ALS disease specific epitope slows the progression ALS disease in patients. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies. 
   
 
 Example 37 
 
 
 
 Administration to Alzheimer's disease patients: epitopes 
 
   
    
    [0394]
     The Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) is administered to human Alzheimer's disease patients. The epitopes are administered to. 
     
    
    [0395]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. In particular, the memory of the subjects is tested and their behaviour is monitored. Autoimmune manifestations are also monitored. 
     
    
    [0396]
     Subjects are monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress that might be a result of the immunizations. Autoimmune manifestations are also monitored. 
     
    
    [0397]
     Administration of the Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) slows the progression of Alzheimer's disease. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active epitopes,. 
   
 
 Example 38 
 
 
 
 Administration to Alzheimer's disease patients: antibodies 
 
   
    
    [0398]
     An antibody directed against the Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) is administered to human Alzheimer's disease patients. 
     
    
    [0399]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. In particular, the memory of the subjects is tested and their behaviour is monitored. Autoimmune manifestations are also monitored. 
     
    
    [0400]
     Subjects are monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress that might be a result of the immunizations. Autoimmune manifestations are monitored. 
     
    
    [0401]
     Administration of an antibody directed to the Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope DLGKGGNEESTKTGNAGS (DSE2) slows the progression of Alzheimer's disease. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies. 
   
 
 Example 39 
 
 
 
 Administration of humanized antibodies to Alzheimer's disease patients 
 
   
    
    [0402]
     Humanized antibodies directed against Alzheimer's disease-specific epitopes are administered to human Alzheimer's disease patients. The humanized antibodies are administered by intravenous infusion at a concentration that ranges from 1 to 10 micrograms per ml local concentration in the CNS. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope. In one dosing regimen, the dosing is once every 3 weeks. In other regimens, dosing is once per week, twice per week, three times per week, or once per 2 weeks. Alternatively, dosing varies depending on the physiological condition of the patients and the response of the patient to treatment. 
     
    
    [0403]
     Alternatively, humanized antibodies against Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope are directly administered into the CNS of Alzheimer's disease patients by intraventricular or intrathecal infusion. MedTronics (Minneapolis, MN, USA) provides medical devices for use in this example. The end concentration of 1-10 micrograms per ml is achieved by infusion of as much as 5 mg of the humanized antibody per day at a maximal rate of 1 ml/h. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope. 
     
    
    [0404]
     Humanized antibodies are administered to Alzheimer's disease patients by intrathecal injection. To avoid an increase in pressure due to the injection volume, an equal volume of cerebrospinal fluid is withdrawn through the same needle used for the injection. Subjects are given a dose that ranges from 1% to 10% of the corresponding systemic dose. Subjects receive a single dose of the humanized antibody formulation. Alternatively, subjects receive multiple doses of the humanized antibody formulation. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different Alzheimer's disease-specific epitope. In alternate regimens, dosing is once per week, twice per week, three times per week, once every two weeks, once every three weeks or once every month. In another regimen, the dosing varies depending on the physiological condition of the subject and the response of the subject to the treatment. 
     
    
    [0405]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. Administration of a humanized antibody directed to a Alzheimer's disease specific epitope slows the progression of Alzheimer's disease in patients. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies. 
   
 
 Example 40 
 
 
 
 Administration to Parkinson's disease patients: epitopes 
 
   
    
    [0406]
     A Parkinson's disease specific epitope is administered to human Parkinson's disease patients. 
     
    
    [0407]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. In particular, the gait, reflex and behaviour of subjects are monitored. Autoimmune manifestations are also monitored. 
     
    
    [0408]
     Subjects are monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress that might be a result of the immunizations. 
     
    
    [0409]
     Administration of a Parkinson's disease specific epitope slows the progression of Parkinson's disease. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active epitopes, 
   
 
 Example 41: 
 
 
 
 Administration to Parkinson's disease patients: antibodies 
 
   
    
    [0410]
     An antibody directed against a Parkinson's disease specific epitope is administered to human Parkinson's disease patients.. 
     
    
    [0411]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. In particular, the gait, reflex and behaviour of subjects are monitored. Autoimmune manifestations are also monitored. 
     
    
    [0412]
     Subjects are and monitored regularly for adverse effects such as signs of pain and distress that might be a result of the immunizations. Administration of an antibody directed to a Parkinson's disease specific epitope slows the progression of Parkinson's disease in patients. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies 
   
 
 Example 42 
 
 
 
 Administration of humanized antibodies to Parkinson's disease patients 
 
   
    
    [0413]
     Humanized antibodies directed against Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes are administered to human Parkinson's disease patients. The humanized antibodies are administered by intravenous infusion at a concentration that ranges from 1 to 10 micrograms per ml local concentration in the CNS. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. In one dosing regimen, the dosing is once every 3 weeks. In other regimens, dosing is once per week, twice per week, three times per week, or once per 2 weeks. Alternatively, dosing varies depending on the physiological condition of the patients and the response of the patient to treatment. 
     
    
    [0414]
     Alternatively, humanized antibodies against Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes are directly administered into the CNS of Parkinson's disease patients by intraventricular or intrathecal infusion. MedTronics (Minneapolis, MN, USA) provides medical devices for use in this example. The end concentration of 1-10 micrograms per ml is achieved by infusion of as much as 5 mg of the humanized antibody per day at a maximal rate of 1 ml/h. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. 
     
    
    [0415]
     Humanized antibodies against Parkinson's disease-specific epitopes are administered to Parkinson's disease patients by intrathecal injection. To avoid an increase in pressure due to the injection volume, an equal volume of cerebrospinal fluid is withdrawn through the same needle used for the injection. Subjects are given a dose that ranges from 1% to 10% of the corresponding systemic dose. Subjects receive a single dose of the humanized antibody formulation. Alternatively, subjects receive multiple doses of the humanized antibody formulation. In one regimen, the formulation comprises an antibody directed against one Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. In another regimen, the formulation comprises two or more humanized antibodies, each directed against a different Parkinson's disease-specific epitope. In alternate regimens, dosing is once per week, twice per week, three times per week, once every two weeks, once every three weeks or once every month. In another regimen, the dosing varies depending on the physiological condition of the subject and the response of the subject to the treatment. 
     
    
    [0416]
     Patients are monitored for indications of slowing or arrest of SOD aggregation and disease progression. Administration of a humanized antibody directed to a Parkinson's disease specific epitope slows the progression of Parkinson's disease in patients. Slowing or arrest of SOD1 aggregation or abrogation of disease progression occurs for therapeutically active antibodies. 
   
 
 Example 43 
 
 
 
 Breeding of ALS mice models G93A and G37R 
 
   
    
    [0417]
     Founder hemizygous male G93A and G37R animals will be bred with wild-type female mice of the same background strain (C57BL/6). Females were not bred more than 6 times. Heterozygous G93A males were retired as breeders at 3 months of age, heterozygous G37R mice were retired as breeders at 6 months of age. 
     
    
    [0418]
     Fifteen hemizygous G93A (or G37R) male mice and 30 C57BL/6 female mice formed 15 breeding trios. Two female mice were initially housed together, and estrus were induced by exposing the females to the dirty bedding of their mate (Whitten effect). The next day, the females were introduced into the male cages (2 females per male). Females were checked each morning for plugs. 
     
    
    [0419]
     Offspring were identified with ear punching at 3 weeks of age, and the punched tissue was used for genotyping. and to determine transgene copy number. If ear punches did not provide sufficient material for genotyping and testing for transgene copy number, then tail clipping was performed. 
     
    
    [0420]
     Weaning took place when offspring were 3 weeks old, and hemizygous mice were randomized to experimental treatment groups. 
After weaning, animals were kept 4 per cage. 
     
    
    [0421]
     A similar breeding program was used for both strains, with appropriate adjustments for survival of hemizygous animals that develop disease phenotypes (G93A survival -145 days, G37R survival -335 days). 
     
    
    [0422]
     G93A heterozygote mice developed hindlimb predominant weakness at about  age  100 days. Weakness progressed to a point of hindlimb paralysis, and animals were not be able to feed or drink (i.e. unable to reach their food and water). This point was observed around 145 days. At this point, animals were euthanized. Animals were euthanized earlier, if their body weight decreased by 20%, or if they displayed other signs of serious morbidity. 
     
    
    [0423]
     The G37R transgene caused similar clinical signs as the G93A transgene, however age at onset of weakness in heterozygotes was about 300 days, from which point weakness progressed to hindlimb paralysis. Endpoints were the same as for the G93A mice, however endpoints were usually met around 335 days in the G37R (line 29) transgenic. 
     
    
    [0424]
     Breeding mice were weighed weekly and were euthanized if they lost 15% or more of their body weight. However, weight loss less than 15% combined with other signs of serious morbidity ie. ruffled fur, hunched appearance, obvious dehydration, etc., were considered a humane endpoint for these animals. 
   
 
 Example 44 
 
 
 
 Development of ALS propagation models 
 
   
    
    [0425]
     In ALS, as in prion disease, neuronal death "spreads" throughout the neuroaxis, implicating a pathological mechanism for propagation of the pathological process from cell to cell. A model is developed of SOD1 misfolding propagation in cell-free systems, in cellular assays  in vitro,  and in animals based on similar model systems in prion disease. These models provide more "disease relevant" systems for testing immunotherapies, and will circumvent the potential false negative and false positive outcomes of current models. 
     
    
    [0426]
     Biological deposits of hybridoma cell lines were made in accordance with the Budapest Treaty and are available from the International Depository Authority of Canada 1015 Arlington Street, Winnipeg, Canada R3E 3R2. 
   
 
 FULL CITATIONS FOR REFERENCES REFERRED TO IN THE SPECIFICATION 
 
 
   
    
    [0427]
     
     
 1.  Urushitani M, Sik A, Sakurai T, Nukina N, Takahashi R, Julien JP. Chromogranin-mediated secretion of mutant superoxide dismutase proteins linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Nat Neurosci. 2006 Jan;9(1):108-18 . 
 2.  Turner BJ, Atkin JD, Farg MA, Zang da W, Rembach A, Lopes EC, Patch JD, Hill AF, Cheema SS Impaired extracellular secretion of mutant superoxide dismutase 1 associates with neurotoxicity in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis J Neurosci. 2005  ). 
 3.  Cashman NR, Griffin JK, Zou W-Q, Allele-selective recruitment and disease progression in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Neurology, 2002 . 
 4.  Cashman NR and Caughey B. Prion diseases--close to effective therapy? Nature Reviews in Drug Discovery. 2004 Oct;3(10):874-84 . 
 5.  Rakhit R, Robertson J, Vande Velde C, Horne P, Ruth DM, Griffin J, Cleveland DW, Cashman NR, Chakrabartty A. An immunological epitope
selective for pathological monomer/misfolded SOD1 in ALS. Nature Medicine, 2007  (in the press) 
 6.  Paramithiotis E, Pinard M, Lawton T, LaBoissiere S, Leathers VL, Zou W-Q, Estey LA., Kondejewski LH, Francoeur GP, Papadopoulos M, Haghighat A, Spatz SJ, Tonelli Q, Ledebur HC, Chakrabartty A, Cashman NR. A prion protein epitope selective for the pathologically misfolded conformation. Nature Medicine 9:893-9, 2003 . 
 7.  Lehto, M. T., Ashman, D. A. & Cashman, N. R. Treatment of ScN2a cells with prion-specific YYR antibodies. Proc. First Intl Conf. Network Excellence: Neuroprion (Paris, 2004 ). 
 8.  Khare et al, PROTEINS: Structure, Function and Bioinformatics, 61:617-632 (2005 ). 
 9.  Thompson, JD, Higgins DG, Gibson TJ, 1994, Nucleic Acids Res. 22(22): 4673-4680 . 
 10.  Henikoff S. and Henikoff J.G., 1992, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 10915-10919 . 
 11.  Needleman and Wunsch. J. Mol. Biol., 1970, 48:443 . 
 12.  Smith and Waterman. Adv. Appl. Math. 1981, 2:482 . 
 13.  Carillo and Lipton SIAM J. Applied Math. 1988, 48:1073 . 
 14.  Computational Molecular Biology, Lesk, e.d. Oxford University Press, New York, 1988, Biocomputing: Informatics and Genomics Projects   .   
 15.  Devereux et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 1984, 12:387 . 
 16.  Altschul et al., J. Molec. Biol., 1990: 215:403 . 
 17.  Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 20th ed., Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pa., USA, 2000 . 
 18.  Merrifield, J. Am. Chem. Assoc. 85:2149-2154 (1964 ). 
 19.  Houbenweyl, Methods of Organic Chemistry, ed. E. Wansch, Vol. 15, pts. I and II, Thieme, Stuttgart (1987 ). 
 20.  Goeddel, Gene Expression Technology: Methods in Enzymology 185, Academic Press, San Diego, CA 1990 . 
 21.  Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory press (1989 ). 
 22.  Chang et al., Nature 275:615 (1978 ). 
 23.  Nichols and Yanofsky, Meth. in Enzymology 101:155, 1983 . 
 24.  Russell et al., Gene 20: 231, 1982 . 
 25.  Bolivar et al., Gene 2:9S, 1977 . 
 26.  Messing, Meth in Enzymology 101:20-77, 1983 . 
 27.  Vieira and Messing, Gene 19:259-268 (1982 ). 
 28.  Amann et al., Gene 69:301-315 (1988 ). 
 29.  Studier et al., Gene Expression Technology: Methods in Enzymology 185, Academic Press, San Diego, California, 60-89 (1990 ). 
 30.  Baldari et al., Embo J. 6:229-234 (1987 ). 
 31.  Kurjan and Herskowitz, Cell 30:933-943 (1982 ). 
 32.  Schultz et al., Gene 54:113-123 (1987 ). 
 33.  Hinnen et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75:1929 (1978 ). 
 34.  Itoh et al., J. Bacteriology 153:163 (1983 ). 
 35.  Cullen et al. Bio/Technology 5:369 (1987 ). 
 36.  Seed, B., Nature 329:840 (1987 ). 
 37.  Kaufman et al., EMBO J. 6:187-195 (1987 ). 
 38.  Sinkar et al., J. Biosci (Bangalore) 11:47-58 (1987 ). 
 39.  Zambryski et al., Genetic Engineering, Principles and Methods, Hollaender and Setlow (eds.), Vol. VI, pp. 253-278, Plenum Press, New York (1984 ). 
 40.  Smith et al., Mol. Cell Biol. 3:2156-2165 (1983 ). 
 41.  Lucklow, V.A., and Summers, M.D., Virology 170:31-39 (1989 ). 
 42.  Kohler and Milstein Nature 256:495-497 (1975 ). 
 43.  Kozbor et al., Immunol. Today 4:72 (1983 ). 
 44.  Cole et al., Methods Enzymol, 121:140-67 (1986 ). 
 45.  Huse et al., Science 246:1275 (1989 ). 
 46.  Ward et al., Nature 341:544-546 (1989 ). 
 47.  McCafferty et al., Nature 348:552-554 (1990 ). 
 48.  Dobson CM. (2004) Experimental investigation of protein folding and misfolding. Methods. 34(1):4-14 . Review. 
 49.  Prusiner SB. (2001) Shattuck lecture--neurodegenerative diseases and prions. N Engl J Med. 344:1516-26 . 
 50.  Selkoe DJ, Schenk D. (2003) Alzheimer's disease: molecular understanding predicts amyloid-based therapeutics. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 43:545-84 . 
 51.  St George-Hyslop PH, Petit A. (2005) Molecular biology and genetics of Alzheimer's disease. C R Biol. 328(2):119-30 . 
 52.  Puglielli L, Tanzi RE, Kovacs DM. (2003) Alzheimer's disease: the cholesterol connection. Nat Neurosci. 6:345-51 . 
 53.  Mehta PD, Pirttila T, Mehta SP. (2000) Plasma and cerebrospinal fluid levels of amyloid beta proteins 1-40 and 1-42 in Alzheimer disease. Arch Neurol. 57:100-5 . 
 54.  Clark CM, Xie S, Chittams J et al. (2003) Cerebrospinal fluid tau and beta-amyloid: how well do these biomarkers reflect autopsy-confirmed dementia diagnoses? Arch Neurol. 60:1696-702 . 
 55.  Green AJ. (2002) Cerebrospinal fluid brain-derived proteins in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol. 28:427-40 . 
 56.  Schenk D, Barbour R, Dunn W, Gordon G, Grajeda H, Guido T, Hu K, Huang J, Johnson-Wood K, Khan K, Kholodenko D, Lee M, Liao Z, Lieberburg I, Motter R, Mutter L, Soriano F, Shopp G, Vasquez N, Vandevert C, Walker S, Wogulis M, Yednock T, Games D, Seubert P. (1999) Immunization with amyloid-beta attenuates Alzheimer-disease-like pathology in the PDAPP mouse. Nature. 400(6740):173-7 . 
 57.  Gilman S, Koller M, Black RS, Jenkins L, Griffith SG, Fox NC, Eisner L, Kirby L, Rovira MB, Forette F, Orgogozo JM; AN1792(QS-21)-201 Study Team. (2005) Clinical effects of Abeta immunization (AN 1792) in patients with AD in an interrupted trial. Neurology. 64(9):1553-62 . 
 58.  Fox NC, Black RS, Gilman S, Rossor MN, Griffith SG, Jenkins L, Koller M; AN1792(QS-21)-201 Study Team. (2005) Effects of Abeta immunization (AN1792) on MRI measures of cerebral volume in Alzheimer disease. Neurology. 64(9):1563-72 . 
 59.  Olanow CW. (2004) The scientific basis for the current treatment of Parkinson's disease. Annu Rev Med 55:41-60 . 
 60.  Iwatsubo T. (2003) Aggregation of alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. J Neurol 250 Suppl 3:III11-4 . 
 61.  Eriksen JL, Dawson TM, Dickson DW, Petrucelli L. (2003) Caught in the ac: alpha-synuclein is the culprit in Parkinson's disease. Neuron 40:453-6 . 
 62.  McKeith I, Mintzer J, Aarsland D et al. (2004) Dementia with Lewy bodies. Lancet Neurol 3:19-28 . 
 63.  Masliah E, Rockenstein E, Adame A, Alford M, Crews L, Hashimoto M, Seubert P, Lee M, Goldstein J, Chilcote T, Games D, Schenk D. (2005) Effects of alpha-synuclein immunization in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease. Neuron. 46(6):857-68 . 
 64.  Choi J, Rees HD, Weintraub ST, et al. (2005) Oxidative modifications and aggregation of Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase associated with Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. J. Bio. Chem.; 280(12): 11648-11655 . 
 65.  Janus, C. et al. (2000) Nature 408:979-982 . 
 66.  Janus, C. (2000) Neurobiology of Aging 21: 541-549 . 
 67.  Gass, P. et al. (1998) Learn Mem. 5:274-288 . 
 68.  Wehner, J. M. (1990) Brain Research 523: 181-187 ). 
 69.  Masliah, E. et al. (2000) Science 287:1265-1269 . 
 70.  Masliah, E. et al. (2005) Neuron 46:857-868 . 
 71.  Kayed, R. et al. Common structure of soluble amyloid oligomers implies common mechanism of pathogenesis. Science 300, 486-9 (2003 ). 
 72.  Deng, H. X. et al. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and structural defects in Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase. Science 261, 1047-51 (1993 ). 
 73.  Andersen PM. Genetics of sporadic ALS. Amyotroph Lateral Schler Other Motor Neuron Disord. Suppl1:S37-41 (2001 ). 
 74.  Trojanowski et al 2000 Ann NY Acad Sci 924:62-7 . 
 75.  Calne et al 1989; Can J Neurol Sci 16:547-50 . 
 76.  Shaw et al., 2002. Cell Mol Bioll 48:127-36 . 
 77.  Olivieri et al 2001. J Neurochem 76:224-33 . 
 78.  Shimohama et al 1999. Rinsho Shinkeigaku 39:4-6 . 
 79.  Keller et al 1998. Rev Neurosci 9:105-16 . 
 80.  Simonian et al 1996. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol 36:83-106 . 
 81.  Imam et al 2001. Ann NY Acad Sci 939:366-80 ). 
 82.  Lazoura, E and Apostolopoulos, V. Rational Peptide-based vaccine design for cancer immunotherapeutic applications Curr Med Chem. (2005) 12:629-39 . 
 83.  Hensley K, Carney JM, Mattson MP, Aksenova M, Harris M, Wu JF, Floyd RA, Butterfield DA. A model for b-amyloid aggregation and neurotoxicity based on free radical generation by the peptide: Relevance to Alzheimer disease. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 91: 3270-3274 (1994 ). 
 84.  Elam JS, Taylor AB, Strange R, Antonyuk S, Doucette PA, Rodriguez JA, Hasnain SS, Hayward LJ, Valentine JS, Yeates TO, Hart PJ Nat Struct Biol (2003) 10:461-7 . 
 85.  Kolaskar, AS and Tongaonkar PC, FEBS Lett. (1990) 276:172-4   
 
 SEQUENCE LISTING 
   
    
    [0428]
     
     
 <110> Amorfix Life Sciences Ltd University Health Network 
 <120> Methods and Compositions to Treat and Detect Misfolded-SOD1 Mediated Diseases 
 <130> 1.10.98336/04 
 <150>      US  60/798,727     
<151> 2006-05-09 
 <150>      US  60/798,728     
<151> 2006-05-09 
 <150>      US  60/778,379     
<151> 2006-03-03 
 <150>    US 11/367,609     
<151> 2006-03-03 
 <150>    US 11/565,967     
<151> 2006-12-01 
 <160> 31 
 <170> PatentIn version 3.3 
 <210> 1 
<211> 9 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 1
   
 <210> 2 
<211> 18 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 2
   
 <210> 3 
<211> 14 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 3
   
 <210> 4 
<211> 7 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 4
   
 <210> 5 
<211> 11 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 5
   
 <210> 6 
<211> 11 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 6
   
 <210> 7 
<211> 8 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 7
   
 <210> 8 
<211> 9 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <220> 
<221> MISC_FEATURE 
<222> (4)..(4) 
<223> Cysteine oxidized to cysteic acid 
 <400> 8
   
 <210> 9 
<211> 7 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 9
   
 <210> 10 
<211> 14 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <220> 
<221> MOD_RES 
<222> (1)..(1) 
<223> ACETYLATION 
 <400> 10
   
 <210> 11 
<211> 19 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 11
   
 <210> 12 
<211> 15 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 12
   
 <210> 13 
<211> 7 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <220> 
<221> MISC_FEATURE 
<222> (2)..(2) 
<223> Cysteine oxidized to cysteic acid 
 <400> 13
   
 <210> 14 
<211> 12 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 14
   
 <210> 15 
<211> 16 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <220> 
<221> MISC_FEATURE 
<222> (8)..(8) 
<223> Cysteine oxidized to cysteic acid 
 <400> 15
   
 <210> 16 
<211> 9 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 16
   
 <210> 17 
<211> 154 
<212> PRT 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 17
 
   
 <210> 18 
<211> 981 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 18
   
 <210> 19 
<211> 27 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 19 
agguuagcuu gugguguuau agguaua 27 
 <210> 20 
<211> 54 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 20 
gauuuaggua aaggugguaa ugaagaaagu acuaaaacug guaaugcugg uagu   54 
 <210> 21 
<211> 42 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 21 
aauccuuuaa gucguaaaca cggaggaccg aaggacgagg ag   42 
 <210> 22 
<211> 33 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 22 
auaaagggga aaacagaagg acuccacggc uuu   33 
 <210> 23 
<211> 33 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 23 
cacuguauua uuggcaggac ccucguuguu cac   33 
 <210> 24 
<211> 27 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 24 
cguuuggcuu gugguguaau ugggauc   27 
 <210> 25 
<211> 21 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 25 
gcuuguggug uaauugggau c   21 
 <210> 26 
<211> 54 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 26 
gacuugggca aagguggaaa ugaagaaagu acaaagacag gaaacgcugg aagu   54 
 <210> 27 
<211> 42 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 27 
aauccucuau ccagaaaaca cggugggcca aaggaugaag ag   42 
 <210> 28 
<211> 21 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 28 
aaggccgugu gcgugcugaa g   21 
 <210> 29 
<211> 33 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 29 
auuaaaggac ugacugaagg ccugcaugga uuc   33 
 <210> 30 
<211> 33 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 30 
cauugcauca uuggccgcac acuggugguc cau   33 
 <210> 31 
<211> 24 
<212> DNA 
<213> Homo sapiens 
 <400> 31 
ggccugcaug gauuccaugu ucau   24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
