
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ALFALFA PLANT AND SEED CORRESPONDING TO TRANSGENIC EVENT

KK 179-2 AND METHODS FOR ION THEREOF

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS

This application is entitled to priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. § 119 (e) to US

provisional patent application No. ,373, which was filed on June 30, 2011, and

US provisional patent application No. 61/664,359, which was filed on June, 26, 2012,

the sures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 
 INCORPORATION OF SEQUENCE LISTING

The sequence listing file named “57978_seq_listing.txt”, which is 10,564 bytes

(measured in MS—WINDOWS) which was electronically filed and which was created on

May, 1 2012 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION

The present invention relates to alfalfa transgenic event KK179—2.  The invention

also provides cells, plant parts, seeds, plants, commodity products related to the event,

and DNA les that are unique to the event and were created by the ion of

transgenic DNA into the genome of an alfalfa plant.  The invention further es

s for detecting the presence of said alfalfa event nucleotide ces in a sample,

probes and primers for use in detecting nucleotide sequences that are diagnostic for the

presence of said alfalfa event.
 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

Alfalfa (Medicago ) is the most cultivated legume worldwide, with the US

being the top alfalfa producer.  The methods of biotechnology have been applied to

alfalfa for improvement of agronomic traits and the quality of the product.  One such

agronomic trait is lignin content.
 
 Lignin is the second most nt terrestrial biopolymer and accounts for 30%

of the organic carbon.  Lignin is crucial for structural integrity of the cell wall and it

imparts stiffness and strength to the stem.  Lignin content is inversely correlated with

forage digestibility for diary cattle. A reduction in lignin may be achieved in transgenic

plants by the sion of a RNA suppression construct capable of providing such

decrease while at the same time provide increased alfalfa digestibility. The expression of

foreign genes or suppression molecules in plants is known to be inﬂuenced by many

s, such as the regulatory elements used, the chromosomal location of the ene

insert,  the proximity of any endogenous  regulatory  elements  close  to  the  transgene

insertion site, and environmental factors such as light and temperature. For example, it

has  been  ed  that there may be  variation  in  the  overall level  of transgene

suppression or in the l or temporal pattern of transgene suppression between

similarly—produced events.  For this reason, it is often necessary to screen hundreds of

independent transformation events in order to ultimately identify one event useful for

cial ltural purposes.  Such an event, once identified as having the desired

suppression phenotype, molecular characteristics and the improved trait, may then be

used for  introgressing the improved trait  into  other genetic backgrounds using plant

breeding methods.  The resulting progeny would contain the transgenic event and would

therefore have the same characteristics for that trait of the original transformant.  This

may be used to produce a number of different crop varieties that se the improved

trait and are suitably adapted to specific local g conditions.
 
 It would be advantageous to be able to detect the presence of ene/genomic

DNA of a particular plant in order to determine whether progeny of a sexual cross

contain the transgene/genomic DNA of interest.  In addition, a method for detecting a

particular plant would be helpful when complying with regulations requiring the pre—

market approval and labeling of foods derived from the transgenic crop plants.
 
 The presence or absence of a suppression element may be detected by any well

known c acid detection method such as the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or

DNA hybridization using nucleic acid probes.  These detection methods lly focus

on frequently used genetic elements, such as ers, terminators, marker genes, etc.
 
 As a  result,  such methods may not be useful  for discriminating between  different

transformation events, particularly those produced using the same DNA construct unless

the sequence of somal DNA adjacent to the ed DNA (“ﬂanking DNA”) is

known. An specific PCR assay is discussed, for example, by Taverniers et al. (J.
 
 Agric. Food Chem., 53: 3041—3052, 2005) in which an event—specific tracing system for

transgenic  maize  lines  Btll,  Btl76,  and GA21  and  for  canola  event GT73  was

demonstrated. In this study, event—specific primers and probes were designed based upon

the sequences of the /transgene junctions for each event.  enic plant event

specific DNA detection methods have also been described in US Patent Nos. 7,632, 985;

7,566,817; 7,368,241; 7,306,909; 7,718,373; 7,189,514, 7,807,357 and 7,820,392.
 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

The present invention is an alfalfa transgenic event designated event KK179—2,

having representative seed sample deposited with American Type Culture Collection

(ATCC) under the Accession No. PTA—11833.
 
 The invention provides a plant, seed, cell, progeny plant, or plant part comprising

the event derived from a plant, cell, plant part, or seed comprising event 2.  The

invention thus includes, but is not limited to pollen, ovule, ﬂowers, shoots, roots and

leaves.
 
 One aspect of the ion provides compositions and methods for detecting the

presence of a DNA enic/genomic junction region from alfalfa event KK179—2 plant

or seed.   DNA molecules are provided that comprise at least one transgene/genomic

junction DNA molecule selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:  1, SEQ ID

NO: 2 and complements thereof, wherein the on molecule spans the ion site.
 
 An alfalfa event KK179—2 and seed comprising these DNA molecules is an aspect of this

invention.
 
 A novel DNA molecule is ed that is a DNA transgene/genomic region SEQ

ID NO:3 or the complement thereof, from alfalfa event KK179—2.  An alfalfa plant and

seed comprising SEQ ID NO: 3 in its genome is an aspect of this invention.  In another

aspect of the invention, a DNA molecule is provided that is a DNA transgene/genomic

resion SEQ ID NO:4 or the complement thereof, wherein this DNA molecule is novel in

alfalfa event KK179—2.  An a plant and seed comprising SEQ ID NO:4 in its

genome is an aspect of this invention.
 
 The invention provides DNA molecules related to event KK179—2.  These DNA

molecules may comprise nucleotide sequences representing or derived from the junction

of the transgene insertion and g genomic DNA of event KK179—2, and/or a region

of the genomic DNA ﬂanking the inserted DNA, and/or a region of the integrated

transgenic DNA ﬂanking the insertion site, and/or a region of the integrated transgenic

expression cassette, and/or a contiguous sequence of any of these regions.  The invention

also provides DNA molecules useful as primers and probes diagnostic for the event.
 
 Plants, cells, plant parts, commodity products, y, and seeds comprising these

les are provided.
 
 According to one aspect of the invention, compositions and methods are provided

for ing the presence of the transgene/genomic insertion region from a novel a

plant designated KK179—2.  DNA sequences are ed that comprise at least one

on sequence of KK179—2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:  1

(corresponding to positions 1038 through 1057 of SEQ ID NO: 6, Figure 1 [F]),and SEQ

ID NO: 2 (corresponding to ons 3620 through 3639 of SEQ ID NO: 6, Figure 1 [F]),

and complements thereof; wherein a junction sequence is a nucleotide sequence that

spans the point at which heterologous DNA inserted into the genome is linked to the

alfalfa cell genomic DNA and detection of this  sequence in a biological sample

containing alfalfa DNA is diagnostic for the presence of the a event KK179—2 DNA

in said sample (Figure 1).  The alfalfa event KK179—2 and alfalfa seed comprising these

DNA molecules is an aspect of this invention.
 
 According to another aspect of the invention, two DNA molecules are provided

for use in a DNA detection method, wherein a first DNA molecule comprises a

polynucleotide  having  a  nucleotide  sequence  of  ient  length  of  consecutive

polynucleotide of any portion of the transgene region of the DNA molecule of SEQ ID

NO: 3 or SEQ ID NO: 5 and a second DNA molecule of similar length of any portion of

a 5’ ﬂanking alfalfa genomic DNA region of SEQ ID NO: 3, where said DNA les

function as DNA primers when used together in an amplification reaction with a template

derived from event KK179—2 to produce an amplicon diagnostic for event KK179—2

DNA in  a  sample.  Any  on  produced by DNA  primers  homologous  or

complementary to any portion of SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 5, and any amplicon

that comprises SEQ ID NO: I is an aspect of the ion.
 
 According to another aspect of the invention, two DNA molecules are provided

for  use  in a DNA ion  method,  wherein  a  first DNA  molecule  comprises  a

polynucleotide  having  a  nucleotide  sequence  of  sufficient  length  of  consecutive

polynucleotide of any portion of the transgene region of the DNA molecule of SEQ ID

NO: 4 or SEQ ID NO: 5 and a second DNA molecule of similar length of any portion of

a 3’ ﬂanking alfalfa genomic DNA of SEQ ID NO: 4, where said DNA molecules

function as DNA primers when used together in an amplification reaction with a template

derived from event KKl79—2 to produce an amplicon diagnostic for event KKl79—2 DNA

in a sample.  Any amplicons produced by DNA primers homologous or complementary

to any portion of SEQ ID NO: 4 and SEQ ID NO: 5, and any on that comprises

SEQ ID NO: 2 is an aspect of the invention.
 
 The invention provides methods, compositions, and kits useful for detecting the

presence of DNA derived from a event KKl79—2.  Certain methods comprise (a)

contacting a sample comprising DNA with a primer set that when used in a c acid

amplification reaction with genomic DNA from alfalfa event KKl79—2 produces an

amplicon diagnostic for the event; (b) performing a nucleic acid amplification reaction

thereby producing the amplicon; and (c) detecting the amplicon, wherein said amplicon

comprises SEQ ID NO: 1 and/or SEQ ID NO: 2.  The invention also provides a method

for detection of the event by (a) contacting a sample comprising DNA with a probe that

when used in a hybridization reaction with genomic DNA from the event hybridizes to a

DNA molecule specific for the event; (b) ting the sample and probe to stringent

hybridization conditions; and (c) detecting the hybridization of the probe to the DNA

molecule.  Kits comprising the methods and itions of the invention useful for

detecting the presence of DNA derived from the event are also provided.
 
 The invention further es a method of producing a alfalfa plant comprising:

(a) ng a KKl79—2 alfalfa plant with a second alfalfa plant, thereby producing a

seed; (b) growing said seed to produce a plurality of progeny plants; and (c) ing a

progeny plant that comprises KKl79—2 or a progeny plant with decreased lignin content.
 
 The foregoing and other aspects of the invention will become more apparent from

the following detailed description.
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

Figure 1.  Diagrammatic representation of the enic insert in the genome of alfalfa

event KKl79—2; [A] corresponds to the relative positions of SEQ ID NO: 1 g the

junction between SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 5; [B] corresponds to the relative

positions of SEQ ID NO: 2 g the junction between SEQ ID NO: 4 and SEQ ID

NO: 5; [C] corresponds to the relative position of SEQ ID NO: 3, which contains the

alfalfa genomic ﬂanking region and a n of the arbitrarily designated 5’ end of the

transgenic DNA insert; [D] corresponds to the ve position of SEQ ID NO: 4, which

ns the alfalfa genome ﬂanking region and a portion of the arbitrarily designated 3’

end of the transgenic DNA insert; [E] represents SEQ ID NO: 5, which is the sequence of

the transgenic DNA insert including the CCOMT suppression cassette integrated into the

genome of event KKl79—2;  [F] represents SEQ ID NO: 6, which is the contiguous

sequence comprising, as ented in the figure from left to right, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ

ID NO: 5 and SEQ ID NO: 4, in which SEQ ID NOs: 1 and SEQ ID NOs: 2 are

incorporated as set forth above, as these sequences are present in the genome in event

KKl79—2.  LB: refers to the left border of T—DNA; RB: refers to the right border of T—

DNA.
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEQUENCES

The sequence listing file named “57978_seq_listing.txt”, which is 10,564 bytes

(measured in MS—WINDOWS) which was electronically filed and which was created on

May, 1 2012 is incorporated herein by nce.
 
 SEQ ID NO: 1 — A 20 bp nucleotide sequence representing the left border

junction between the alfalfa genomic DNA and the integrated DNA insert. This sequence

corresponds to positions 1038 through 1057 of SEQ ID NO: 6, and to ons 1038

through 1047 of SEQ ID NO: 3 ([C] of Figure 1). In addition, SEQ ID NO: 1 corresponds

to the integrated left border of the expression cassette at positions 1 through 10 of SEQ

ID NO: 5 ([E] of Figure 1).
 
 SEQ ID NO: 2 — A 20 bp tide sequence representing the right border

junction between the integrated DNA insert and the alfalfa genomic DNA. This sequence

corresponds to positions 3620 to 3639 of SEQ ID NO: 6, and to positions 91 through 111

of SEQ ID NO: 4 ([D] of Figure 1). In addition, SEQ ID NO: 2 corresponds to positions

2573 through 2582 SEQ ID NO: 5 ([E] of Figure 1).
 
 SEQ ID NO: 3 — A 1147 bp nucleotide sequence including the 5’ alfalfa genomic

sequence (1047 bp) ﬂanking the inserted DNA of event KKl79—2 plus a region (100 bp)

of the integrated DNA. This sequence corresponds to positions 1 through 1047 of SEQ

ID NO: 6.
 
 SEQ ID NO: 4 — A 1356 bp nucleotide sequence including the 3’ a genomic

ce (1256 bp) ﬂanking the inserted DNA of event KKl79—2 plus a region (100 bp)

of the integrated DNA. This sequence corresponds to positions 3529 through 4885 of

SEQ ID NO: 6.
 
 SEQ ID NO: 5 — The sequence of the integrated expression cassette, including the

left and the right border sequences after integration. SEQ ID NO: 5 corresponds to

nucleotide positions 1048 through 3629 of SEQ ID NO: 6.
 
 SEQ ID NO: 6 — A 4885 bp nucleotide sequence representing the contig of the 5’

sequence ﬂanking the ed DNA of KKl79—2 (SEQ ID NO: 3), the sequence of the

integrated DNA insert (SEQ ID NO: 5) and the 3’ ce ﬂanking the inserted DNA of

KKl79-2 (SEQ ID NO: 4).
 
 SEQ ID NO: 7 — The sequence of primer 1 used to identify KKl79—2

event. Production of a 81 bp PCR amplicon using the ation of primers 1

and SQ23728 (SEQ ID NO: 8) is a positive result for the ce of event KKl79—2.
 
 SEQ ID NO 8— The sequence of primer SQ223728 used to identify KKl79—2

event.
 
 SEQ ID NO: 9 — The sequence of probe PB10164 used to identify KKl79—2

event. It is a 6FAMTM—labeled tic oligonucleotide.
 
 SEQ ID NO: 10 — The sequence of primer SQ1532 used as an internal control in

end—point TAQMAN® assays.
 
 SEQ ID NO: ll — The sequence of primer SQ1533 used as an internal control in

end—point TAQMAN® assays.
 
 SEQ ID NO: 12 — The sequence of a labeled synthetic oligonucleotide

probe PB0359 used as an internal control in end—point TAQMAN® assays.
 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION

The following definitions and methods are provided to better define the present

invention and to guide those of ry skill in the art in the ce of the present

invention. Unless otherwise noted, terms are to be understood according to conventional

usage by those of ordinary skill in the relevant art.  Definitions of common terms in

molecular biology may also be found in Rieger et al., Glossary of cs: Classical

and Molecular, 5th edition, Springer—Verlag: New York, 1991; and Lewin, Genes V,

Oxford University Press: New York, 1994.
 
 The present invention provides transgenic a event KKl79—2.   The term

“event” as used herein refers to the plants, seeds, progeny, cells, plant parts thereof, and

DNA molecules produced as a result of transgenic DNA integration into a plant’s

genome at a ular location on a chromosome.  Event KKl79—2 refers to the plants,

seeds, progeny, cells, plant parts thereof, and DNA molecules produced as a result of the

insertion of enic DNA having a sequence provided herein as SEQ ID NO: 5 into a

particular chromosomal location in the Medicago sativa genome.   A seed sample

containing KKl79—2 has been ted with American Type Culture Collection (ATCC)

under Accession No. PTA—11833.
 
 As used herein, the term “alfalfa” means Medicago sativa and es all plant

varieties that can be bred with alfalfa, including wild alfalfa species.  Alfalfa is also

called medic, the name of any plant of the genus Medicago Old World herbs with blue or

yellow ﬂowers similar to those of the related clovers.  Unlike corn or soybean, alfalfa

plants  are  autotetraploid;  thus,  each  trait is  determined by  genes  residing  on  four

chromosomes instead of two.  This complicates c research and also adds to the

difficulty of improving alfalfa. Commercial alfalfa seed is often comprised of a mixture

of clones that may constitute a synthetic ar generated by random interpollination

among the selected clones, followed by one to three generations of open—pollination in

isolation.   Additionally,  a  composite  cultivar  of alfalfa may  also  be  ped by

blending see of two or more clones or ollinating clones in isolation. When forming

a composite cultivar, equal quantities of seed from each component clone would be

blended to form the initial breeder seed stock.
 
 A transgenic  “event”  is  produced  by  transformation  of  plant  cells  with

heterologous DNA, such as, a nucleic acid construct that comprises the RNA ssion

of a  gene  of interest,  regeneration  of a population  of independently  transformed

transgenic plants resulting from the insertion of the transgene cassette into the genome of

the plant, and ion of a particular plant with desirable molecular characteristics, such

as insertion of the transgene into a particular genome location. A plant sing the

event can refer to the original transformant that includes the transgene inserted into the

particular location in the plant’s genome. A plant comprising the event can also refer to

progeny of the original transformant that retain the transgene at the same ular

location in the plant’s genome. Such progeny may be produced by a sexual outcross

n the transformant, or its progeny, and another plant.  Such another plant may be a

transgenic plant comprising the same or a different transgene; or may be a non—transgenic

plant,  such as one from a different variety.   Even after repeated back—crossing to a

recurrent parent, the event DNA from the transformed parent is present in the y of

the cross at the same genomic location.
 
 A DNA molecule comprising event KKl79—2 refers to a DNA molecule

comprising at least a portion of the inserted transgenic DNA (provided as SEQ ID NO:

) and at least a portion of the ﬂanking genomic DNA immediately adjacent to  the

inserted DNA.  As such, a DNA molecule comprising event KKl79—2 has a nucleotide

sequence representing at least a portion of the transgenic DNA insert and at least a

portion of the particular region of the genome of the plant into which the transgenic DNA

was inserted.  The arrangement of the inserted DNA in event KKl79—2 in relation to the

nding plant genome is specific and unique to event KKl79—2 and as such the

nucleotide sequence of such a DNA le is diagnostic and identifying for event

KKl79—2.  Examples of the sequence of such a DNA molecule are provided herein as

SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 4, and SEQ ID NO: 6.
 
 Such a DNA molecule is also an integral part of the chromosome of a plant that

comprises event KKl79—2 and may be passed on to progenies of the plant.
 
 As used herein, a “recombinant DNA molecule” is a DNA molecule comprising a

combination of DNA les that would not lly occur together and is the result

of human intervention, for example, a DNA molecule that is comprised of a combination

of at least two DNA les heterologous to each other, and/or a DNA molecule that is

artificially synthesized and ses a polynucleotide sequence that deviates from the

polynucleotide sequence that would normally exist in nature, and/or a DNA molecule that

comprises a transgene artificially incorporated into a host cell’s genomic DNA and the

ated ﬂanking DNA of the host cell’s genome. An example of a recombinant DNA

molecule is a DNA molecule described herein resulting from the insertion of the

transgene  into  the  go  sativa  ,  which may  ultimately  result  in  the

suppression of a recombinant RNA and/or protein molecule in that organism.   The

nucleotide sequence or any fragment derived therefrom would also be considered a

recombinant DNA molecule if the DNA molecule can be extracted from cells, or tissues,

or homogenate from a plant or seed or plant tissue; or can be produced as an amplicon

from extracted DNA or RNA from cells, or tissues, or homogenate from a plant or seed

or plant tissue, any of which is d from such als d from the event

KKl79—2. For that , the junction sequences as set forth at SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ

ID NO: 2, and nucleotide sequences derived from event KKl79—2 that also contain these

junction sequences are considered to be recombinant DNA, whether these sequences are

present within the genome of the cells of event KKl79—2 or present in detectable amounts

in tissues, progeny, ical samples or commodity products derived from the event

KKl79—2.  As used herein, the term “transgene” refers to a polynucleotide molecule

artificially incorporated into a host cell’s genome.  Such transgene may be heterologous

to  the  host  cell.   The term  “transgenic  plant”  refers  to  a plant comprising  such  a

transgene. A “transgenic plant” includes a plant, plant part, a plant cell or seed whose

genome has been altered by the stable ation of recombinant DNA.  A transgenic

plant includes a plant regenerated from an originally—transformed plant cell and progeny

transgenic plants from later generations or crosses of a transformed plant. As a result of

such genomic alteration, the transgenic plant is distinctly different from the related wild

type plant.  An e of a transgenic plant is a plant described herein as comprising

event KKl79—2.
 
 As used  herein,  the  term  ologous”  refers  to  a  sequence  which  is  not

ly present in a given host genome in the genetic context in which the ce is

currently found.  In this respect, the sequence may be native to the host genome, but be

rearranged with respect to other genetic sequences within the host sequence.
 
 The  present  invention  provides DNA  molecules  and  their  ponding

nucleotide  sequences.    As  used  herein,  the  terms “DNA  sequence”,  “nucleotide

sequence” and “polynucleotide sequence” refer to the sequence of nucleotides of a DNA

molecule, usually ted from the 5’ (upstream) end to the 3’ (downstream) end.  The

nomenclature used herein is that required by Title 37 of the United States Code of

Federal Regulations § 1.822 and set forth in the tables in WIPO Standard ST.25 (1998),

Appendix 2, Tables I and 3.  The present invention is disclosed with reference to only

one strand of the two nucleotide sequence strands that are provided in enic event

KKl79—2.  Therefore, by implication and derivation, the mentary sequences, also

referred  to  in  the  art  as  the  complete  complement  or  the  reverse  complementary

ces, are within the scope of the present invention and are therefore also intended to

be within the scope of the subject matter claimed.
 
 The nucleotide sequence corresponding to the complete nucleotide sequence of

the inserted transgenic DNA and substantial ts of the Medicago sativa genomic

DNA ﬂanking either end of the inserted transgenic DNA is provided herein as SEQ ID

NO: 6. A subsection of this is the inserted transgenic DNA provided as SEQ ID NO: 5.
 
 The nucleotide  sequence  of the genomic DNA ﬂanking  the  5’  end  of the  inserted

enic DNA and a portion of the 5’ end of the inserted DNA is provided herein as

SEQ ID NO: 3. The nucleotide sequence of the genomic DNA ﬂanking the 3’ end of the

inserted transgenic DNA and a portion of the 3’ end of the inserted DNA is provided

herein as SEQ ID NO: 4.  The region spanning the location where the transgenic DNA

connects to and is linked to the genomic DNA is referred to herein as the junction. A

“junction sequence” or “junction region” refers to a DNA sequence and/or corresponding

DNA molecule that spans the inserted transgenic DNA and the adjacent ﬂanking genomic

DNA. Examples of a junction ce of event 2 are provided herein as SEQ

WO 03558                                                  

ID NO: I and SEQ ID NO: 2.  The identification of one of these junction sequences in a

tide molecule derived from a alfalfa plant or seed is conclusive that the DNA was

obtained from event KKl79—2 and is diagnostic for the presence of DNA from event

KKl79—2. SEQ ID NO: I is a 20 bp nucleotide sequence spanning the junction between

the genomic DNA and the 5’ end of the inserted DNA.  SEQ ID NO: 2 is a 20 bp

nucleotide sequence spanning the junction between the genomic DNA and the 3’ end of

the inserted DNA.  Any segment of DNA derived from transgenic event KKl79—2 that

includes the consecutive tides of SEQ ID NO: I is within the scope of the present

invention.  Any segment of DNA derived from transgenic event KKl79—2 that includes

the consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 2 is within the scope of the present invention.
 
 In addition, any polynucleotide molecule comprising a sequence complementary to any

of the sequences bed within this paragraph is within the scope of the present

invention.  Figure l is an illustration of the transgenic DNA insert in the genome of

alfalfa event KKl79—2, and the relative positions of SEQ ID NOs: l—6 arranged 5’to 3’.
 
 The present invention further provides ary DNA molecules that can be

used either as primers or probes for diagnosing the ce of DNA derived from event

KKl79—2 in a sample.  Such primers or probes are specific for a target nucleic acid

sequence and as such are useful for the identification of event KKl79—2 nucleic acid

sequence by the methods of the invention described herein.
 
 A "probe" is an isolated nucleic acid to which is attached a detectable label or

reporter le, for example, a radioactive isotope, ligand, uminescent agent, or

enzyme.  Such a probe is complementary to a strand of a target nucleic acid, in the case

of the present invention, to a strand of genomic DNA from alfalfa event KKl79—2

whether from a alfalfa plant or from a sample that comprises DNA from the event.
 
 Probes  according  to  the  present  ion  include  not  only deoxyribonucleic  or

ribonucleic acids but also polyamides and other probe als that bind specifically to a

target  DNA   sequence   and  the   detection   of  such  binding   can   be  used  to

diagnose/determine/confirm the presence of that target DNA sequence in a particular

sample.
 
 A "primer" is typically an isolated polynucleotide that is designed for use in

specific annealing or hybridization s to hybridize to a complementary target DNA

strand to form a hybrid between the primer and the target DNA strand, and then extended

along the target DNA strand by a polymerase, for example, a DNA polymerase. A pair of

primers may be used with template DNA, such as a sample of Medicago sativa genomic

DNA, in a thermal or isothermal amplification, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR),

or other nucleic acid amplification methods, to produce an amplicon, where the amplicon

produced from such reaction would have a DNA sequence corresponding to sequence of

the template DNA located between the two sites where the primers hybridized to the

template. As used herein, an con” is a piece or nt of DNA that has been

synthesized using amplification techniques, such as the product of an amplification

reaction.  In one embodiment of the invention, an amplicon diagnostic for event KKl79—

2 comprises a sequence not naturally found in the Medicago sativa genome.  Primer

pairs, as used in the present ion, are intended to refer to use of two primers g

opposite s of a double stranded nucleotide segment for the purpose of amplifying

linearly the cleotide segment between the positions targeted for binding by the

individual members of the primer pair, typically in a thermal or isothermal amplification

on or other c acid amplification methods.  Exemplary DNA molecules useful

as primers are provided as SEQ ID NOs:  7—9, may be used as a first DNA molecule and

a second DNA molecule that is ent from the first DNA molecule, and both

molecules are each of sufficient length of consecutive nucleotides of either SEQ ID NO:

4, SEQ ID NO: 5, or SEQ ID NO: 6 or the complements thereof to function as DNA

primers so that, when used together in an amplification reaction with template DNA

derived from event KKl79—2, an on that is specific and unique to transgenic event

KKl79—2 would be produced. The use of the term “amplicon” specifically es

primer—dimers that may be formed in the DNA amplification reaction.
 
 Probes and primers according to the present invention may have complete

sequence identity to the target sequence, although primers and probes differing from the

target sequence that retain the ability to hybridize preferentially to target sequences may

be designed by conventional methods.  In order for a nucleic acid molecule to serve as a

primer or probe it needs only be sufficiently complementary in sequence to be able to

form  a  stable  double—stranded  structure  under  the  ular  solvent  and  salt

concentrations employed. Any nucleic acid ization or amplification method can be

used to identify the presence of transgenic DNA from event KK179—2 in a sample.
 
 Probes  and primers are lly at least about  11  nucleotides, at least about  18

nucleotides, at least about 24 tides, and at least about 30 nucleotides or more in

length.  Such probes and primers hybridize specifically to a target ce under high

stringency hybridization conditions.
 
 Methods for preparing and using probes and s are described, for example,

in Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2nd ed., vol. 1—3, ed. Sambrook et al., Cold

Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, 1989 (hereinafter, "Sambrook

et al.,  1989");  Current Protocols  in Molecular Biology,  ed.  l  et al., Greene

Publishing and lnterscience, New York, 1992 (with ic updates) (hereinafter,

"Ausubel et al.,  1992”); and Innis  et al., PCR Protocols:   A Guide to Methods and

Applications, Academic Press: San Diego, 1990.  PCR—primer pairs can be derived from

a known sequence, for example, by using computer programs intended for that purpose

such as Primer (Version 0.5, © 1991, Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research,

Cambridge, MA).
 
 Primers and probes based on the ﬂanking DNA and insert sequences sed

herein can be used to confirm the disclosed ces by known methods, for example,

by re—cloning and sequencing such sequences.
 
 The nucleic acid probes and primers of the present invention hybridize under

stringent conditions to a target DNA sequence.  Any c acid hybridization or

ication method can be used to identify the presence of DNA from a transgenic

event  in  a  sample.  Nucleic  acid  molecules  or  fragments  thereof are  capable  of

specifically hybridizing to other nucleic acid les under certain circumstances.  As

used herein, two nucleic acid molecules are said to be capable of specifically hybridizing

to one another if the two molecules are capable of forming an arallel, double—

stranded nucleic acid structure. A nucleic acid molecule is said to be the “complement”

of another nucleic acid molecule if they t complete complementarity.  As used

herein, molecules are said to exhibit “complete complementarity” when every nucleotide

of one of the molecules is complementary to a nucleotide of the other.  Two molecules

are said to be “minimally complementary” if they can hybridize to one another with

sufficient stability to permit them to remain annealed to one another under at least "low—

stringency" conditions.  Similarly, the molecules are said to be “complementary” if they

can hybridize to one another with sufficient stability to permit them to remain annealed

to one another under "high—stringency" conditions.  Stringency conditions are bed

by Sambrook et al., 1989, and by Haymes et al., In: Nucleic Acid Hybridization, A

Practical Approach, IRL Press, Washington, DC (1985).  Departures from complete

mentarity are therefore permissible, as long as such departures do not completely

preclude the capacity of the les to form a double—stranded structure.  In order for a

nucleic  acid molecule  to  serve  as  a primer or probe  it need only be  sufficiently

complementary in sequence to be able to form a stable double—stranded structure under

the particular t and salt concentrations employed.
 
 As used herein, a substantially homologous ce is a nucleic acid sequence

that will specifically hybridize to the complement of the nucleic acid sequence to which

it  is  being  compared  under  high  stringency  conditions.    riate  stringency

conditions that promote DNA ization, for example, 6.0 X sodium chloride/sodium

citrate (SSC) at about 45°C, followed by a wash of 2.0 X SSC at 50°C, are known to

those skilled in the art or can be found in Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John

Wiley & Sons, NY. (1989), 6.3.1—6.3.6.  For example, the salt concentration in the wash

step can be selected from a low stringency of about 2.0 X SSC at 50°C to a high

stringency of about 0.2 X SSC at 50°C.  In addition, the temperature in the wash step can

be increased from low stringency conditions at room temperature, about 22°C, to high

stringency conditions at about 65°C.  Both temperature and salt may be varied, or either

the temperature or the salt concentration may be held constant while the other variable is

d.  In one embodiment, a nucleic acid of the present invention will specifically

hybridize to one or more of the nucleic acid molecules set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1, and

SEQ ID NO: 2,or complements or nts thereof under high stringency conditions.
 
 The hybridization of the probe to the target DNA molecule can be detected by any

number of s known to those skilled in the art.  These can include, but are not

limited to, ﬂuorescent tags, radioactive tags, antibody based tags, and chemiluminescent

tags.
 
 Regarding the amplification of a target nucleic acid sequence (for eXample, by

PCR) using a particular ication primer pair, gent conditions" are conditions

that permit the primer pair to hybridize only to the target nucleic acid sequence to which

a primer having the corresponding ype sequence (or its complement) would bind

and preferably to produce a unique amplification product, the amplicon, in a DNA

amplification  reaction.  Examples  of DNA  amplification  methods  include  PCR,

Recombinase  Polymerase  Amplification  (RPA)  (see  for  example  U.S.  Pat  No.

7,485,428), Strand Displacement Amplification (SDA) (see for example, U.S. Pat. Nos.

,455,166  and  723),  Transcription—Mediated  Amplification  (TMA)  (see  for

example, li et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.  USA 87:1874—1878 (1990)), Rolling

Circle Amplification (RCA) (see for example, Fire and Xu, Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. USA

92:4641—4645 (1995); Lui, et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118:1587—1594 (1996); Lizardi, et

al., Nature  Genetics  19:225—232 (1998), U.S. Pat.  Nos.  5,714,320 and 502)),

Helicase Dependant Amplification (HDA)  (see for example Vincent et al., EMBO

Reports 5(8): 795—800 ; U.S. Pat. No. 7,282,328), and Multiple Displacement

Amplification (MDA) (see for example Dean et. al., Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. USA 99:5261—

5266 (2002)).
 
 The term  "specific  for  (a  target  sequence)"  indicates  that a probe  or primer

hybridizes under stringent hybridization ions only to the target sequence in a

sample comprising the target sequence.
 
 As used  herein,  the  term  “isolated”  refers  to  at  least  partially  ting  a

molecule from other molecules normally associated with it in its native or natural state.
 
 In one embodiment, the term “isolated” refers to a DNA molecule that is at least partially

ted from the nucleic acids that normally ﬂank the DNA molecule in its native or

natural state.  Thus, DNA molecules fused to tory or coding sequences with which

they are not normally associated, for example as the result of recombinant techniques, are

considered ed herein. Such molecules are considered isolated even when integrated

into the some of a host cell or present in a nucleic acid solution with other DNA

molecules.
 
 Any number of methods well known to those skilled in the art can be used to

isolate and manipulate a DNA molecule, or fragment thereof, disclosed in the present

invention.  For example, PCR (polymerase chain reaction) technology can be used to

y a particular starting DNA molecule and/or to produce variants of the original

le. DNA molecules, or fragments thereof, can also be obtained by other

techniques such as by directly synthesizing the fragment by chemical means, as is

commonly practiced by using an ted oligonucleotide synthesizer.
 
 The DNA molecules and corresponding nucleotide sequences provided herein are

therefore useful for, among other things, identifying event KKl79—2, selecting plant

ies or hybrids comprising event KKl79—2, detecting the presence of DNA derived

from event KKl79—2 in a sample, and ring samples for the ce and/or

absence of event KKl79—2 or plants and plant parts comprising event KKl79—2.
 
 The present invention provides plants, progeny, seeds, plant cells, plant parts such

as pollen, ovule, pod, ﬂower, root or stem tissue, and leaf.  These plants, y, seeds,

plant cells,  plant parts,  and commodity products  contain a detectable amount of a

polynucleotide of the present invention, such as a polynucleotide comprising at least one

of the sequences provided as the consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 1, and the

consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 2. Plants, y, seeds, plant cells, plant parts

and commodity products  of the present invention may  also  contain  one  or more

additional suppression targets.
 
 The present invention provides , progeny, seeds, plant cells, and plant part

such as pollen, ovule, pod, ﬂower, root or stem tissue, and leaf derived from a transgenic

plant comprising event KKl79—2.  A representative sample of seed comprising event

KKl79—2 has been deposited according to the Budapest Treaty for the purpose of

enabling the present invention.  The tory ed for receiving the deposit is the

American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) having an address at  10801  University

Boulevard, Manassas, ia USA, Zip Code 20110.   The ATCC repository has

assigned the accession No. PTA—11833 to event KKl79—2 seed.
 
 The present invention provides a microorganism comprising a DNA molecule

having a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of the consecutive

nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 1, the consecutive tides of SEQ ID NO: 2.  An

example of such a microorganism is a transgenic plant cell.  Microorganisms, such as a

plant cell of the present invention, are useful in many industrial ations, including

but not limited to: (i) use as research tool for scientific y or industrial research; (ii)

use in culture for producing endogenous or recombinant carbohydrate, lipid, nucleic acid,

enzymes or protein products or small molecules that may be used for subsequent

scientific research or as industrial products; and (iii) use with modern plant tissue e

techniques to produce transgenic plants or plant tissue cultures that may then be used for

agricultural research or production.  The production and use of microorganisms such as

transgenic plant cells utilizes modern microbiological techniques and human intervention

to produce a man—made, unique microorganism.  In this process, recombinant DNA is

inserted into a plant cell’s genome to create a transgenic plant cell that is separate and

unique from naturally occurring plant cells.   This transgenic plant cell can then be

cultured much like bacteria and yeast cells using modern microbiology techniques and

may  exist  in  an  undifferentiated,  unicellular  state.  The  new  plant  cell’s  c

composition and phenotype is a technical effect created by the integration of the

heterologous DNA into the genome of the cell. Another aspect of the present invention is

a method of using a microorganism of the present invention.   Methods of using

microorganisms of the present invention, such as transgenic plant cells, include (i)

s of ing transgenic cells by integrating inant DNA into genome of

the  cell  and  then  using  this  cell  to  derive  additional  cells  possessing  the  same

heterologous DNA; (ii) methods of culturing cells that contain recombinant DNA using

modern microbiology techniques; (iii)  methods of producing and ing endogenous

or recombinant carbohydrate, lipid, nucleic acid, enzymes or protein products from

cultured cells; and (iv) s of using modern plant tissue culture techniques with

transgenic plant cells to produce transgenic plants or transgenic plant tissue cultures.
 
 As used herein, “progeny” includes any plant, seed, plant cell, and/or regenerable

plant  part  sing  the  event DNA  derived  from  an  ancestor  plant  and/or  a

polynucleotide  having  at  least  one  of the  sequences  provided  as  the  consecutive

nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 1 or the consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 2. Plants,

progeny, and seeds may heterozygous for the ce of the transgenic ce.
 
 Progeny may be grown from seeds produced by a plant comprising event KKl79—2

and/or from seeds produced by a plant fertilized with pollen from a plant comprising

event KKl79—2.

y plants may be outcrossed, for example, bred with another plant, to

produce a al or a hybrid seed or plant.   The other plant may be transgenic  or

nontransgenic. A varietal or hybrid seed or plant of the present ion may thus be

d by crossing a first parent that lacks the specific and unique DNA of event

KKl79—2 with a second parent comprising event KKl79—2, resulting in a hybrid

comprising the specific and unique DNA of event KKl79—2. Each parent can be a hybrid

or an inbred/variety, so long as the cross or breeding results in a plant or seed of the

present invention, such as, a seed having at least one allele comprising the specific and

unique DNA of event KKl79—2 and/or the consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: I or

SEQ ID NO: 2. Back—crossing to a parental plant and out—crossing with a non—transgenic

plant are also contemplated, as is vegetative ation.  Descriptions of other breeding

methods that are commonly used for different traits and crops can be found in one of

several nces, for example, Fehr, in Breeding Methods for Cultivar Development,

Wilcox J. ed., American Society of my, n WI (1987).
 
 Sexually crossing one plant with r plant, such as, cross—pollinating, may be

accomplished or facilitated by human intervention,  for example:  by human hands

collecting the pollen of one plant and contacting this pollen with the style or stigma of a

second plant; by human hands and/or human actions removing, destroying, or covering

the stamen or anthers of a plant (for example, by manual ention or by application of

a chemical gametocide) so that natural self—pollination is prevented and pollination

would have to take place in order for fertilization to occur; by human placement of

pollinating insects in a position for “directed pollination” (for example, by placing

beehives in orchards or fields or by caging plants with pollinating insects); by human

opening or removing of parts of the ﬂower to allow for ent or t of foreign

pollen on the style or stigma; by selective placement of plants (for example, intentionally

planting plants in pollinating proximity); and/or by application of chemicals to precipitate

ﬂowering or to foster receptivity (of the stigma for pollen).
 
 In practicing this method, the step of sexually crossing one plant with , such

as, self—pollinating or selfing, may be accomplished or facilitated by human intervention,

for example: by human hands collecting the pollen of the plant and contacting this pollen

with the style or stigma of the same plant and then optionally preventing r

fertilization of the plant; by human hands and/or actions removing, destroying, or

covering the stamen or anthers of other nearby plants (for example, by detasseling or by

application of a chemical gametocide) so that natural cross—pollination is prevented and

self—pollination would have to take place in order for fertilization to occur; by human

placement of pollinating insects in a on for “directed pollination” (for example, by

caging a plant alone with ating insects); by human manipulation of the ﬂower or its

parts  to  allow  for  self—pollination;  by  selective  placement  of plants  (for  example,

intentionally planting plants beyond pollinating proximity);  and/or by application  of

chemicals to precipitate ﬂowering or to foster receptivity (of the stigma for pollen).
 
 The present ion provides a plant part that is derived from a plant comprising

event KKl79—2.  As used herein, a “plant part” refers to any part of a plant that is

comprised of material derived from a plant comprising event KKl79—2.  Plant parts

include but are not limited to pollen, ovule, pod, ﬂower, root or stem tissue, , and

leaf.  Plant parts may be viable, nonviable, regenerable, and/or non—regenerable.
 
 The present ion es a commodity product that is derived from a plant

sing event KKl79—2. As used herein, a dity product” refers to any

composition or product that is comprised of material derived from a plant, seed, plant

cell,  or plant part comprising event KKl79—2. Commodity products may be  sold  to

consumers and may be viable or ble.  ble commodity products include but

are not limited to nonviable seeds and grains; processed seeds, seed parts, and plant parts;

dehydrated plant tissue, frozen plant tissue, and processed plant tissue; seeds and plant

parts processed for animal feed for terrestrial and/or aquatic animal consumption, oil,

meal,  ﬂour,  ﬂakes,  bran,  fiber,  and  any  other food for human  consumption;  and

biomasses and fuel products.  Processed alfalfas are the largest source of forage legume

in the world. A plant comprising event KKl79—2 can thus be used to manufacture any

commodity product typically  acquired from  an  alfalfa plant. Any  such commodity

product that is derived from the plants comprising event KKl79—2 may contain at least a

detectable amount of the specific and unique DNA corresponding to event KKl79—2, and

specifically may contain a able amount of a polynucleotide having a tide

sequence  of the  consecutive  nucleotides  of SEQ  ID  NO:  1  and the  consecutive

nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 2.  Any rd method of detection for polynucleotide

molecules may be used, including methods of detection disclosed herein. A commodity

product is within the scope of the present invention if there is any detectable amount of

WO 03558                                                  

the consecutive tides of SEQ ID NO: I or the consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID

NO: 2, in the commodity product.
 
 The plant, progeny, seed, plant cell, plant part (such as pollen, ovule, pod, ﬂower,

root or stem tissue,  and leaf), and commodity products  of the present invention are

therefore useful for, among other things, growing plants for the purpose of producing

seed and/or plant parts comprising event KKl79—2 for agricultural purposes, producing

progeny comprising event 2 for plant breeding and research es, use with

microbiological  ques  for  industrial  and  research  applications,  and  sale  to

consumers.
 
 The present invention provides methods for producing plants with reduced lignin

and plants  comprising event KKl79—2.   Event KKl79—2 plant was produced by an

Agrobacterium mediated transformation method similar to that bed in US Patent

,914,451, using an inbred alfalfa line with the construct pFGllS. Construct pFGllS

contains a plant suppression cassette for downregulation of the CCOMT enzyme in

alfalfa plant cells.  Transgenic alfalfa cells were regenerated into intact alfalfa plants and

individual  plants  were  selected  from  the  population  of independently  transformed

transgenic plants that showed desirable lar characteristics, such as, the integrity of

the transgene cassette, absence of the construct backbone sequence, loss of the unlinked

kanamycin resistance selection cassette.  Furthermore, inverse PCR and DNA sequence

analyses were performed to determine the 5’ and 3’ insert—to—plant genome junctions, to

confirm the organization of the elements within the insert e l), and to determine

the complete DNA ce of the insert in a event KKl79—2 (SEQ ID NO: 5). In

addition, transgenic plants were ed and selected for reduced lignin under field

conditions. An alfalfa plant that contains in its genome the suppression cassette of

pFGl 18 is an aspect of the present invention.
 
 Methods for producing a plant with reduced lignin sing transgenic event

KKl79—2 are provided.  Transgenic plants used in these methods may be heterozygous

for the transgene.  y plants produced by these s may be varietal or hybrid

plants; may be grown from seeds produced by a plant and/or from seed comprising event

KKl79—2 produced by a plant fertilized with pollen from a plant comprising event

KKl79—2; and may be homozygous or heterozygous for the transgene.  Progeny plants

may be subsequently self—pollinated to generate a true ng line of plants, such as,

plants homozygous for the transgene, or alternatively may be ssed, for example,

bred with r unrelated plant, to produce a varietal or a hybrid seed or plant. As used

herein, the term “zygosity” refers to the rity of DNA at a specific chromosomal

location (locus) in a plant. In the present invention, the DNA specifically refers to the

transgene insert along with the junction sequence (event DNA). A plant is homozygous if

the transgene insert with the junction sequence is present at the same on on each

chromosome of a chromosome pair (4 s). A plant is considered heterozygous if the

transgene insert with the junction sequence is present on only one chromosome of a

some pair (1 allele). A Wild—type plant is null for the event DNA.
 
 Progeny plants and seeds encompassed by these methods and produced by using

these methods are ct from other plants, for example, because the progeny plants and

seeds are inant and as such created by human intervention; contain at least one

allele that consists of the transgenic DNA of the present invention; and/or contain a

detectable amount of a polynucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of

consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 1, or consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 2.
 
 A seed may be selected from an individual progeny plant, and so long as the seed

comprises SEQ ID NO: 1, or SEQ ID NO: 2, it will be Within the scope of the present

invention.
 
 The plants, progeny, seeds, plant cells, plant parts (such as pollen, ovule, pod,

ﬂower, root or stem tissue, and leaves), and commodity ts of the present invention

may be evaluated for DNA ition, gene expression, and/or n expression.
 
 Such evaluation may be done by using various methods such as PCR, sequencing,

northern blotting, southern analysis, western blotting, immuno—precipitation, and ELISA

or by using the methods of detection and/or the detection kits provided herein.
 
 Methods of detecting the presence of itions specific to event KKl79—2 in a

sample are provided.  One method consists of detecting the presence of DNA specific to

and derived from a cell, a tissue, a seed, a plant or plant parts comprising event KKl79—2.
 
 The method provides for a template DNA sample to be contacted with a primer pair that

is capable of producing an on from event KKl79—2 DNA upon being subjected to

conditions appropriate for amplification, particularly an amplicon that comprises SEQ ID

NO: 1, and/or SEQ ID NO: 2, or the ments thereof.  The amplicon is produced

from a template DNA le derived from event KKl79—2, so long as the template

DNA molecule incorporates the ic and unique nucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO:

1, or SEQ ID NO: 2.  The amplicon may be single or double stranded DNA or RNA,

depending on the polymerase selected for use in the production of the amplicon.  The

method provides for detecting the amplicon molecule produced in any such amplification

reaction,  and  confirming  within  the  sequence  of the  amplicon  the  presence  of the

nucleotides corresponding to SEQ ID NO: 1, or SEQ ID NO: 2, or the complements

thereof.  The detection of the nucleotides corresponding to SEQ ID NO: 1, and/or SEQ

ID NO:  2,  or the  complements  thereof in  the  on  are  determinative  and/or

stic for the presence of event KKl79—2 specific DNA and thus biological material

comprising event KKl79—2 in the sample.
 
 Another method is provided for detecting the presence of a DNA molecule

corresponding to SEQ ID NO: 3 or SEQ ID NO: 4 in a sample consisting of material

derived from plant or plant tissue.  The method consists of (i) obtaining a DNA sample

from a plant, or from a group of different , (ii) contacting the DNA sample with a

DNA probe molecule comprising the tides as set forth in either SEQ ID NO: I or

SEQ ID NO: 2, (iii) allowing the probe and the DNA sample to hybridize under stringent

ization conditions, and then (iv) detecting a ization event between the probe

and the target DNA sample.  Detection of the hybrid composition is diagnostic for the

presence of SEQ ID NO: 3 or SEQ ID NO: 4, as the case may be, in the DNA sample.

e of hybridization is alternatively diagnostic of the absence of the transgenic event

in the sample if the appropriate positive controls are run concurrently.  Alternatively,

determining that a particular plant contains either or both of the sequences corresponding

to SEQ ID NO: I or SEQ ID NO: 2, or the complements thereof, is determinative that the

plant contains at least one allele corresponding to event KKl79—2.
 
 It is thus possible to detect the presence of a nucleic acid molecule of the present

invention by any well known nucleic acid amplification and detection methods such as

rase chain reaction (PCR), recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA), or DNA

hybridization using nucleic acid .  An event—specific PCR assay is discussed, for

example, by Taverniers et al. (J. Agric. Food Chem., 53: 3041—3052, 2005) in which an

                                                  2012/044590

event—specific tracing system for transgenic maize lines Btll, Bt176, and GA21 and for

transgenic event RT73 is demonstrated. In this study, event—specific primers and probes

were designed based upon the sequences of the genome/transgene junctions for each

event.  Transgenic plant event specific DNA detection methods have also been described

in US Patent Nos. 7,632, 985; 817; 7,368,241; 7,306,909; 7,718,373; 7,189,514,

7,807,357 and 7,820,392.
 
 DNA detection kits are provided.  One type of kit ns at least one DNA

molecule of sufficient length of contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO:

, or SEQ ID NO: 6 to function as a DNA primer or probe specific for ing the

presence of DNA derived from transgenic event 2 in a sample.   The DNA

molecule being detected with the kit comprises contiguous nucleotides of the sequence as

set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1.  Alternatively, the kit may contain at least one DNA molecule

of sufficient length of contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 4, SEQ ID NO: 5, or SEQ

ID NO: 6 to function as a DNA primer or probe ic for detecting the presence of

DNA derived from transgenic event KK179—2 in a sample.  The DNA molecule being

detected with the kit comprises uous nucleotides as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2.
 
 An alternative kit employs a method in which the target DNA sample is contacted

with a primer pair as described above, then performing a nucleic acid amplification

on sufficient to produce an amplicon comprising the consecutive nucleotides of

SEQ ID NO: 1, and SEQ ID NO: 2.  Detection of the amplicon and determining the

presence of the consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 1, and SEQ ID NO: 2or the

complements thereof within the sequence of the amplicon is diagnostic for the ce

of event KK179—2 specific DNA in a DNA sample.
 
 A DNA molecule sufficient for use as a DNA probe is provided that is useful for

ining, detecting, or for diagnosing the presence or even the absence of DNA

specific and unique to event KK179—2 DNA in a sample.  The DNA molecule ns

the consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:  1,  or the complement thereof, and the

consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 2, or the complement thereof.
 
 Nucleic acid amplification can be accomplished by any of the various nucleic

acid  amplification  methods  known  in  the  art,  ing  thermal  and  isothermal

amplification  methods.  The  ce  of  the  heterologous DNA  insert,  junction

                                                  2012/044590

sequences, or ﬂanking sequences from event KK179—2 (with representative seed samples

comprising  event  KK179—2  deposited as ATCC  PTA—11883)  can  be  verified by

amplifying such sequences from the event using primers derived from the sequences

ed herein followed by standard DNA sequencing of the amplicon or of the cloned

DNA.
 
 The amplicon produced by these methods may be detected by a plurality of

ques.  One such method is Genetic Bit is (Nikiforov, et al. Nucleic Acid

Res. 22:4167—4175, 1994) where a DNA oligonucleotide is ed which overlaps both

the adjacent ﬂanking genomic DNA sequence and the ed DNA sequence.  The

oligonucleotide  is  immobilized in wells  of a microwell plate.   Following  thermal

amplification of the region of interest (using one primer in the inserted sequence and one

in the adjacent ﬂanking genomic sequence), a single—stranded amplicon can be hybridized

to the immobilized oligonucleotide and serve as a template for a single base extension

reaction using a DNA polymerase and labelled ddNTPs specific for the ed next

base.  Readout may be ﬂuorescent or ELISA—based.  ion of a ﬂuorescent or other

signal  indicates  the  presence  of  the  insert/ﬂanking  sequence  due  to  successful

amplification, hybridization, and single base extension.

r method is the Pyrosequencing technique as described by Winge .
 
 Pharma. Tech. 00:18—24, 2000).  In this method an ucleotide is designed that

overlaps the adjacent genomic DNA and insert DNA junction.  The oligonucleotide is

hybridized to a single—stranded amplicon from the region of interest (one primer in the

inserted ce and one in the ﬂanking genomic sequence) and ted in the

presence of a DNA polymerase, ATP, sulfurylase, luciferase, apyrase, adenosine 5’

phosphosulfate and luciferin.   ddNTPs are added individually and the incorporation

results in a light signal which is measured. A light signal indicates the presence of the

transgene insert/ﬂanking sequence due to sful amplification, hybridization, and

single or multi—base extension.
 
 Fluorescence Polarization as described by Chen, et al., (Genome Res. 9:492—498,

1999) is a method that can be used to detect the amplicon. Using this method an

oligonucleotide is designed which overlaps the genomic ﬂanking and inserted DNA

junction.  The oligonucleotide is hybridized to single—stranded amplicon from the region

of interest (one primer in the inserted DNA and one in the g c DNA

sequence) and incubated in the presence of a DNA polymerase and a cent—labeled

ddNTP. Single base extension results in incorporation of the ddNTP. Incorporation can

be measured as a change in polarization using a ﬂuorometer. A change in polarization

indicates  the  presence  of the  transgene  insert/ﬂanking  sequence  due  to  sful

amplification, hybridization, and single base extension.
 
 TAQMAN® (PE Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) may also be used to

detect and/or quantifying the presence of a DNA sequence using the instructions provided

by the manufacturer.  Brieﬂy, a FRET oligonucleotide probe is designed which overlaps

the c ﬂanking and insert DNA junction.  The FRET probe and amplification

primers (one primer in the insert DNA sequence and one in the ﬂanking genomic

sequence)  are  cycled  in  the  ce  of a  thermostable  polymerase  and  dNTPs.
 
 Hybridization of the FRET probe results in cleavage and release of the ﬂuorescent moiety

away from the quenching moiety on the FRET probe. A ﬂuorescent signal indicates the

presence of the ﬂanking/transgene insert sequence due to successful amplification and

hybridization.
 
 Molecular Beacons  have been  described for use  in  sequence detection  as

described in  Tyangi,  et al.  (Nature  Biotech.l4:303—308,  1996).   Brieﬂy,  a FRET

oligonucleotide probe is designed that overlaps the ﬂanking genomic and insert DNA

junction. The unique structure of the FRET probe results in it containing secondary

structure that keeps the ﬂuorescent and quenching moieties in close ity.  The

FRET probe and amplification primers (one primer in the insert DNA sequence and one

in  the  ﬂanking  genomic  sequence)  are  cycled  in  the  presence  of  a  thermostable

polymerase and dNTPs.  Following successful amplification, hybridization of the FRET

probe to the target sequence results in the l of the probe ary structure and

l separation of the ﬂuorescent and quenching moieties resulting in the production of

a  ﬂuorescent   signal.   The   cent   signal   indicates   the  presence   of  the

ﬂanking/transgene insert sequence due to successful amplification and hybridization.
 
 Other described methods, such as, uidics (US Patent Publication No.

2006068398, US Patent No. 6,544,734) provide methods and devices to separate and

amplify DNA samples.   l dyes are used to detect and measure specific DNA

molecules  (WC/05017181).  Nanotube  devices  (WC/06024023)  that  comprise  an

electronic sensor for the detection of DNA molecules or nanobeads that bind specific

DNA molecules and can then be detected.
 
 DNA detection kits can be developed using the compositions disclosed herein and

the methods well known in the art of DNA detection.   The kits are useful for the

identification of event KKl79—2 in a sample and can be applied to methods for breeding

plants containing the appropriate event DNA.  The kits may contain DNA primers or

probes  that are  similar or complementary to SEQ ID NO:   1—6,  or fragments  or

complements thereof.
 
 The kits and detection methods of the present invention are therefore useful for,

among other ,  identifying event KKl79—2,  selecting plant ies  or hybrids

comprising event KKl79—2, detecting the presence of DNA derived from event KKl79—2

in a sample, and monitoring samples for the presence and/or absence of event KKl79—2

or , plant parts or commodity products comprising event KKl79—2.
 
 The  following  es  are  included  to  demonstrate  examples  of  certain

embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the

techniques disclosed in the examples that follow represent approaches the inventors have

found function well in the practice  of the invention,  and thus  can be considered to

constitute examples of preferred modes for its practice.  r, those of skill in the art

should, in light of the t disclosure, appreciate that many changes can be made in

the specific embodiments that are disclosed and still obtain a like or r result without

departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
 
 EXAMPLES

Example 1:  Isolation of Flanking Sequences Using Inverse PCR And fication of

Flanking Sequences by Sequencing

This e describes isolation of the alfalfa genomic DNA sequences ﬂanking

the enic DNA insert using inverse PCR for event KKl79—2, and identification of

the ﬂanking genomic sequences by sequencing.
 
 Sequences ﬂanking the T—DNA ion in event KK179—2 were determined

using inverse PCR as bed in Ochman et al., 1990 (PCR Protocols: A guide to

Methods and Applications, Academic Press, Inc.).  Plant genomic DNA was ed

from both ype R2336 and the transgenic line from tissue grown under greenhouse

conditions.  Frozen leaf tissue was ground with a mortar and a pestle in liquid nitrogen or

by mechanical grinding, followed by DNA extraction using methods known in the art.
 
 This method can be modified by one skilled in the art to extract DNA from any tissue,

including, but not limited to seed.
 
 An aliquot of DNA from each sample was digested with ction endonucleases

selected based on restriction analysis of the transgenic DNA. After self—ligation of the

restriction fragments, PCR amplification was performed using primers designed from the

transgenic sequence that would amplify sequences extending away from the 5’ and 3’

ends of the transgenic DNA. A variety of Taq polymerases and amplification systems

may be used. Table 2 shows an example of PCR amplification for ﬂanking sequence

isolation using Phusion High Fidelity DNA rase (Cat. No. F5318 or F531L, New

d Biolabs), and Thermalcyclers Applied Biosystems GeneAmp 9700, ABI 9800

Fast Thermal Cycler and MJ Opticon.
 
 Table I. An example of inverse PCR amplification for ﬂanking ce isolation.
 
 PCR master mix (per         Volume  Component

reaction)                         2.9 ul   water

0.05 ul   Primer l (100 MM)

0.05 ul   Primer l (100 MM)

.0 ul    2X Phusion Taq

2.0 ul    ligated DNA

ul    Total

DNA amplification in a fast      Step    Condition

thermocycler

1      98°C 30 sec

2      98°C 5 sec

3      60°C 10 sec

4     72°C 2 min

Go to step 2 30

times

6      72°C 4 min

7      10°C forever

8      End

PCR ts were ted by agarose gel electrophoresis and purified using a

QIAGEN gel purification kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). The subsequent products were

sequenced directly using standard sequencing protocols. Using these two methods, the 5’

ﬂanking sequence, which extends into the left border sequence of the integrated DNA

insert including the CCOMT suppression cassette, was identified and is presented as SEQ

ID NO: 3 ([C] of Figure l). The 3’ ﬂanking sequence, which extends into the right border

sequence of the integrated DNA insert including the CCOMT suppression cassette, was

identified and is ted as SEQ ID NO: 4 ([D] of Figure l).  The transgenic DNA

integrated into the R2336 c DNA is presented as SEQ ID NO: 5 ([E] of Figure l).
 
 The ed sequences were compared to the T—DNA sequence to identify the

ﬂanking sequences and the co—isolated T—DNA nts.  Confirmation of the presence

of the expression cassette was achieved by PCR with primers designed based upon the

deduced ﬂanking sequence data and the known T—DNA sequence.  The R2336 wild type

sequence corresponding to the same region in which the T—DNA was integrated in the

transformed line was isolated using primers designed from the ﬂanking sequences in

KKl79—2. The ﬂanking sequences in KKl79—2 and the R2336 wild type sequence were

ed against multiple nucleotide and protein databases.  This information was used to

examine the relationship of the transgene to the plant genome and to look at the insertion

site  integrity.   The ﬂanking sequence and wild type sequences were used to  design

primers for TAQMAN® endpoint assays used to identify the events as described in

e 2.
 
 Example 2: Event—Specific Endpoint TAQMAN®

This  example  describes  an  event—specific  endpoint TAQMAN®  thermal

amplification method for identification of event KKl79—2 DNA in a .
 
 Examples  of conditions  useful  with  the  event  KKl79—2—specific  nt

® method are described in Table 2 and Table 3. The DNA primers used in the

endpoint assay are primers SQ20901 (SEQ ID NO: 7) and 8 (SEQ ID NO: 8) and

6—FAMTM labeled oligonucleotide probe PBlOl64 (SEQ ID NO: 9).  6FAMTM is a

ﬂuorescent dye product of Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA) attached to the DNA

probe.   For TAQMAN® MGB (Minor Groove Binding) probes, the  5’exonuclease

activity of Taq DNA polymerase cleaves the probe from the 5’—end, n the

ﬂuorophore and quencher.  When hybridized to the target DNA strand, quencher and

ﬂuorophore are separated enough to e a ﬂuorescent signal.
 
 Primers SQ20901 (SEQ ID NO: 7) and SQ23728 (SEQ ID NO: 8) when used as

described with probe PBlOl64 (SEQ ID NO: 9) produce an amplicon of 81 nt that is

diagnostic for event KKl79—2 DNA. The is includes a positive l from alfalfa

known to contain event KKl79—2 DNA, a negative control from non—transgenic alfalfa

and a negative control that contains no template DNA.
 
 These assays are optimized for use with Applied Biosystems GeneAmp PCR

System 9700, ABI 9800 Fast Thermal Cycler and MJ Research DNA Engine FTC—225.
 
 Other methods and apparatus known to those skilled in the art may be used to produce

amplicons that identify the event KKl79—2 DNA.
 
 Table 2. Alfalfa KK179—2 Event—Specific Endpoint TAQMAN® PCR Conditions

Step

Il—‘                 volume of 10 1

2X Universal Master Mix                        1X final tration

(dNTPs, enzyme and buffer)                     of dNTPs, enzyme and

buffer

Event Primers SQ20901 and

SQ23728 Mix (resuspended        0 5 ul       1.0 MM final

in 18 megohm water to a                        concentration

concentration of 20 MM for

each primer)

Example: In a

microcentrifuge tube, the

following are added to

e 500 Ml at a final

concentration of 20 MM:

100 pl of Primer SQ20901 at

a concentration of 100 MM

100 ul of Primer SQ23728 at

a concentration of 100 MM

300 pl of 18 megohm water

Event 6—FAM   MGB Probe

PBlOl64                      0.2 M1      0.2 MM final

(resuspended in 18 megohm                    concentration

water to a concentration of 10

Internal control Primer—1 and

internal l —2 Mix        05 n1        1 HM final

(resuspended in 18 megohm                    concentration

water to a tration of 20

M for each nrimer)

Internal control VIC   probe

(resuspended in 18 megohm        0.2 n1       0.2 MM final

water to a concentration of 10                     tration

7    Extracted DNA (template):

1. Leaf or seed samples to be         30 n1

analyzed

2. Negative control

(non—transgenic DNA)

3. Negative water control

(no template control)

4. Positive control

(KK179—2 DNA)

WO 03558                                                  

Table 3. Endpoint TAQMAN® thermocycler conditions

Cycle N0.      Settings

1             50°C    2 minutes

1             95°C    10 minutes

95°C   15 seconds

64°C   1 minute (—1°C/cycle)

95°C   15 seconds

54°C   1 minute

°C   Forever

A deposit of entative  alfalfa event KK179—2  seed sed above and

recited in the claims, has been made under the st Treaty with the American Type

Culture Collection (ATCC), 10801 University Boulevard, Manassas, VA. 20110. The

ATCC accession  number  is  PTA—11833.   The  deposit  will  be  maintained  in  the

tory for a period of 30 years, or 5 years after the last request, or for the effective

life of the patent, Whichever is longer, and will be replaced as necessary during that

period.
 
 Having illustrated and described the principles of the present invention, it should

be apparent to s skilled in the art that the invention can be modified in arrangement

and detail Without departing from such principles. We claim all modifications that are

Within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.
 
 Example 3.
 
 Example 3: ADL Measurements in the Lower Stem of Reduced Lignin Alfalfa Events

Table 4. Lower stem ADL measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa events in two

fall dormant (FD) germplasms from 3 ons in 2008

Dormancy                                            P—value

germplasm   Mean                        UCI @   Diff.
 
 FD                                         <.001

KK376      FD     7.37    —2.29    —2.55      —2.04    -23.75  <.001

KK465      FD     7.30    —2.36    —2.59      —2.13    —24.44  <.001

JJ041         FD       7.71      —1.77     -2.01        —1.53     —18.70   <.001

JJ266         FD       6.98      —2.50     —2.74        —2.26     —26.38   <.001

KK136      FD     7.38    —2.10    —2.34     _—22.14  <.001

KK179      FD     7.56    —1.92    —2.16      —1.68    —20.24  <.001

KK376      FD     6.51     —2.97    -3.21      -2.73    —31.33  <.001

KK465      FD     7.33    —2.15    —2.39      -1.91    —22.68  <.001

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

FD: Fall Dormant

KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / l * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Event positive plants in Table 4 showed a significant (p30.05) decrease in lower

stem ADL which ranged from 18—31% when compared to the pooled negative control.
 
 KK179—2 alfalfa event has the reduced lignin phenotype fied by the “sweet spot”

selection method.
 
 WO 03558                                                  

Table 5. Lower stem ADL measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead events in

fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown in 4 locations in 2009.
 
 Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

.79                                       -12.26     <.001

.79

.79

.79

8.49                   —2.29      —2.54       —2.04

8.55       10.79      —2.24      —2.47       -2.00

iations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

FD: Fall t

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = ility of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 6. Lower stem ADL measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead events in

fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown at 2 locations in 2009

Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

11.73                                       —19.72     <.001

KK376    8.73     11.73     —3.00    —3.30     —2.70    —25.57    <.001

KK465    9.17     11.73     -2.56     —2.85     —2.27    —21.84   <.001

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

FD: Fall t

KK179=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

e = probability of a greater absolute ence under the null esis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 7. Lower stem ADL measurements for the 6 d lignin alfalfa lead events in

non t (ND) germplasms grown at 4 locations in 2009

Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

.89                                       —l4.50     <.001

KK376    8.26     10.89     —2.63     —2.86     —2.40    —24.14   <.OOl

KK465    9.09     10.89     —l.81     —2.03     —l.58    —l6.58    <.OOl

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 t difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence al of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 8. Lower stem ADL measurements for 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead events in non

dormant (ND) germplasms grown at 2 locations in 2009.
 
 Control                                    % Diff.   e

Mean

ll.l6                                       -20.2l     <.001

KK376    8.35     11.16    —2.81     —3.20     —2.42    —25.16   <.001

KK465    9.14     11.16     -2.03     —2.41     —l.64    —18.15    <.001

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant ence

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Tables 6—8 show 2009 data for lower stem ADL in a fall dormant (ED) and non

dormant (ND) asms at 4 and 2 locations respectively. The 6 event positive

lines showed a significant (ng.05) reduction in ADL ranging from 12—26% when

compared to the pooled negative control, with the lead event KKl79 showing a reduction

in ADL of 18—22%.
 
 Example 4.

e 4: NDFD ements in the Lower Stem of Reduced Lignin Alfalfa Events

Table 9. Lower stem NDFD measurements for the 6 d lignin alfalfa lead events in

fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown at 3 locations in 2008

Dormancy          Control

germplasm           Mean                   UCI @   Diff.
 
 FD            27.70

FD     34.12   27.70    6.43   5.57    7.28   23.20

KK465     FD     35.33   27.70    7.63    6.88    8.38   27.55

FD     33.27   27.70    5.56   4.69    6.44   20.08

JJ266       FD       34.98    27.70     7.27     6.40     8.15    26.25

KK136     FD      3429.     27.70    659.      5 .7 1    7.46   23 .77   <. 001

KKl79     FD     33.13   27.70    5.42    4.54    6.30   19.57   <.001

KK376     FD     37.44   27.70    9.74    8.86    10.61   35.14   <.001

KK465     FD     35.34   27.70    7.64    6.76    8.52   27.57   <.001

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral ent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

FD: Fall Dormant

KKl79=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 ence between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a r absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for icance).
 
 Lower stem NDFD for the 6 reduce lignin events in fall dormant (FD)

germplasms at 3 locations. Event positive plants showed a icant (p30.05) increase

in lower stem NDFD which ranged from 18—35% when compared to the pooled negative

control.
 
 Table 10. Lower stem NDFD measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead events

in fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown at 4 locations in 2009

Dormancy           Control                               p-

germplasm            Mean                                 value

JJ04l         FD        28.09    22.31     5.79    4.89     6.69    25.95   <.001

JJ266        FD        28.58    22.31     6.27    5.46    7.08    28.11   <.001

KK136              28.88   22.31    6.57   5.58   7.56   29.46

KKl79      FD      27.20   22.31    4.90   4.01    5.78   21.95  <.001

KK376      FD      28.65   22.31    6.34   5.38   7.31   28.43  <.001

KK465      FD      28.21   22.31    5.91   4.99   6.83   26.49  <.001

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, llulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

FD: Fall Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — l)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence al of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute ence under the null hypothesis led

test for significance).
 
 Table ll. Lower stem NDFD measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead events

in non t (ND) germplasms grown at 2 locations in 2009

Dormancy          Control

germplasm   Mean    Mean

ND          2088

ND          20.88   6.31

KK465     ND            2088    6.14

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible ents in plant cell wall

lose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence al of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

e = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 WO 03558                                                  

Table 12. Lower stem NDFD measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead events

in fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown at 4 locations in 2009

Dormancy          Control

germplasm   Mean    Mean

FD            22.1 1

ND          22.11   7.70

KK465     ND            2211    5.26

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral ent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

FD: Fall Dormant

ND 2 Non t

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and l (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence al of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 WO 03558                                                  

Table 13. Lower stem NDFD measurements for the 6 reduced lignin a lead events

in non dormant (ND) germplasms grown at 2 locations in 2009

Event     Dormancy            Control

germplasm            Mean

JJ266        ND        28.73    22.39     6.34

6-27

KK376      ND      29.87   22.39    7.48

KK465      ND      28.95   22.39   56.56   5.00   8.11   29.29  <.001

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

ND 2 Non Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference n Event and Control (Delta / l * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute ence under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table ll—l3 show 2009 data for lower stem NDFD in fall dormant (ED) and non

dormant (ND) germplasm at 4 and 2 ons respectively. The 6 event positive reduced

lignin alalfa events showed a significant (ng.05) increase in NDFD ranging from 22—

36% when compared to the pooled negative control, with the lead event KKl79—2

showing an increase in NDFD of 22—28%.
 
 Example 5.
 
 Example 5: Vigor Rating for Reduced Lignin Alfalfa Events

                                                  2012/044590

Table 14. Vigor ratings for the 2 reduced lignin alfalfa events, JJ266 and KK179—2

compared to commercial checks and the null controls in 3 locations. The reduced lignin

event KK179—2 resulted in no off—types for vigor rating scale.
 
 Location     Location 2       Location 3

8.0             7.4                7.8

J]266, null                  7.8             7.4                8.0

KK179—2              8.0          7.6            7.6

KK179, null              7.4           7.7              8.1

cial Check 1       6. 9            6.7              7.1

cial Check 2      7.1           7.0             6.7

Commercial Check 3      7 8           8 1             8 1

Commercial Check 4      7.3           7.6             7.9

Data collected for these trials are as follows: plant vigor (scored 1—10, 10 being

best) taken 21 days after previous t and the second week of May for the spring

score, lodging tolerance (scored 1—10, 10 being perfectly upright) taken 1—5 days prior to

harvest per season. Plant yield (grams of dry matter (DM) per plant) taken after plants

were dried, NDFD (using CAI NIR calibration for RL alfalfa) and ADL (using NIR

calibration for RL alfalfa).
 
 Example 6.
 
 Example 6: ADL Measurements in the Whole Plant for Reduced Lignin Alfalfa Events

Table 15. Whole plant hay ADL measurements for the 6 reduced lignin a lead

events in fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown in 4 locations in 2009

Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

.66                                       —12.27     <.001

JJ266      4.85       5.66      —1.04      —2.47      —0.59

KK136    4.81     5.66     —1.12    —2.53     —0.59

KK179    5.11 _5.66     —0.80     —2.19     —0.31

KK376    4.73     5.66     —1.19     —2.54     —0.66

KK465    5.18     5.66     —0.74    —2.47     —0.22

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

FD: Fall Dormant

KK179=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute ence under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 16. Whole plant hay ADL measurements for the 6 reduced lignin a lead

events in non dormant (ND) germplasms grown in 2 locations in 2009

Event     Event    Control     Delta     Delta      Delta    % Diff.   P—value

Mean    Mean            LCI @    UCI @

90%     90%

.40       6.16       —0.77      —1.22       —0.31      —12.43

.27       6.16       —0.89      —1.30       —0.48      44.47

KK465    5.57     6.16     —0.60     —1.00     —0.19     —9.69    0.016

Abbreviations used in the tables that :

ADL 2 Acid Detergent , % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

ND: Non Dormant

KK179=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a r te difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 17. Whole plant hay ADL measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead

events in fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown in 4 ons in 2009

Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

.77                                       —l4.64    <0.001

.77       —1.16                            —20.09

.77       —0.49      —0.7l       —0.26      —8.43

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

FD: Fall Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 d lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper ence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Whole plant ADL data from 2009 across 4 ons is shown in Table 17 and 19.
 
 The 6 reduced lignin ve events in fall dormant germplasm showed a significant

(p30.05) decrease in ADL ranging from 8—l9% when compared to the pooled negative

control. Event KKl79—2 had a 9.8% and a 9.45 reduction in ADL in the fall dormany

germplasms respectively.
 
 Table 18. Whole plant hay ADL measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead

events in non dormant (ND) germplasms grown in 2 locations in 2009

Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

.94                                      —ll.59     0.006

.02       5.94       —0.92                           —15.47

.37       5.94       —0.57      —0.96       —0.18      —9.6l

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

LSD: Least Significant Difference

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference n Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence al of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for icance).
 
 Whole plant ADL data from 2009 across 2 locations is shown in Table 18 and 20.
 
 The 6 reduced lignin positive events in the non t germplasm showed a significant

(p30.05) decrease in ADL ranging from 10—l6% when compared to the pooled ve

control. Five of the 6 events showed a significant se in ADL ranging from 10—18%

when compared to the pooled negative control. Event KKl79—2 had 12.3% and 10.9%

reduction in ADL in the non dormant germplasms respectively.
 
 Table 19. Whole plant hay ADL measurements for the reduced lignin a event

KKl79—2 in two fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown in 4 locations in 2009 compared to

cial checks

Commercial  Dormancy   KKl79

Check    Germplasm

FDl                                            <.001

FDl      5.22    5.69   —0.47   —0.76   —0.18   —8.31   0.008

FDl      5.22    5.38   —0.17   —0.46   0.13   —3.08   0.350

.22     5.59     —0.38                    —6.75   0.034

FD2     5.10    6.12   —1.02   —1.31   —0.73  — 6.67  <.001

FD2                                          0-001

FD2     5.10    5.38   —0.28

FD2     5.10    5.59   —0.49   —0.79   —0.20   —8.83  0.006

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid ent Lignin, % of dry matter

FD: Fall Dormant

KKl79=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null esis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 20. Whole plant hay ADL measurements for the reduced lignin alfalfa event

KKl79—2 in two non dormant (ND) germplasm grown in 2 locations in 2009 compared to

commercial checks

Commercial  Germplasm  KKl79—

Check                  2

.29

ND1     5.29    5.81               0.01   —8.92

ND1     5.29    5.77               0.05   —8.34

NDl     5.29                           —10.61

ND2     5.39                          —5.77

ND2           5.81   —0.41  —0.96   0.13   —7.11

ND2     5.39    5.77   —0.38  —0.92   0.17   —6.51

ND2     5.39    5.92   —0.52  —1.07   0.02   —8.82

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

ADL 2 Acid Detergent Lignin, % of dry matter

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — l)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower ence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

giﬁa UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

ﬁll/glue = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Tables 19 and 20 contain whole plant ADL data for the reduced lignin alfalfa

event KKl79—2 compared to commercial checks. The KKl79—2 event showed a

significant (p301) decrease in ADL when compared to 3 of the 4 fall t

commercial checks which ranged from 6.8 — 16.7% (Table 19, data from 4 locations).
 
 KKl79—2 event in non dormant ound germplasm (ND1) showed a decrease (p302)

in ADL compared to all 4 non dormant commercial checks ranging from 7.6 — 10.6%

(Table 20, data from 2 locations). The KKl79—2 event in non t background

germplasm (ND2) showed a overall decrease (p302) in ADL compared to all 4 non

dormant commercial checks with a significant (p301) decrease of 8.8% ed to

cial event 4 (ND2, data from 2 locations).
 
 Example 7. NDFD Measurements in the Whole Plant for Reduced Lignin Alfalfa Events

Table 21. Whole plant hay NDFD ements for the 6 reduced lignin a lead

events in fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown in 4 locations in 2009.
 
 Event     Event    Control     Delta     Delta      Delta    % Diff.   P—value

LCI @    UCI @

Mean    Mean

90%     90%

KK465    42.13    39.47

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly ible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

FD: Fall Dormant

KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower ence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 22. Whole plant hay NDFD measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead

events in non dormant (ND) germplasms grown in 2 locations in 2009

Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

.41       5.23                             14.76     0.011

.41       5.41                  8.46

.41       3.25                  6.70

.41       4.96                  8.19

39.75      35.41      4.35       0.96       7.73      12.28

38.72      35.41      3.32      0.26       6.37       9.37

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 l Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 l detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

ND: Non Dormant

KK179=KK179—2 d lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 t difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater te difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Table 23. Whole plant hay NDFD measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead

events in fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown in 4 locations in 2009.
 
 Event     Event    l     Delta     Delta      Delta    % Diff.   P—value

Mean    Mean            LCI @    UCI @

90%     90%

JJ041      44.42      38.96      5.46       3.92       7.00

JJ266     45.19      38.96      6.22      4.72       7.73

KK136    43.63 _38.96     4.66     3.16     6.17

KK179    42.56    38.96     3.60     2.10     5.10

KK376    45.41    38.96     6.45     4.90     7.99

KK465    41.52    38.96     2.55     1.05     4.06     6.55    0.005

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly ible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

FD: Fall Dormant

KK179=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

e = ility of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Whole plant NDFD data from 2009 across 4 locations is shown in Table 23 and

. The 6 reduced lignin positive events in fall dormant germplasm showed a significant

(p30.05) increase in NDFD g from 7—16% when ed to the pooled negative

control.  Event KKl79—2 had a 7.5% and 9.2% increase in NDFD in the fall dormant

germplasm respectively.
 
 Table 24. Whole plant hay NDFD measurements for the 6 reduced lignin alfalfa lead

events in non dormant (ND) germplasms grown in 2 locations in 2009.
 
 Control                                    % Diff.   P—value

Mean

37.21                                       10.06     0.045

37.21                                       13.05     0.007

41.48      37.21      4.27       1.34       7.21      11.49

KK376    42.22    37.21     5.01     1.95     8.08     13.47    0.007

KK465    40.35    37.21     3.15     0.21      6.08     8.46    0.078

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral ent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — l)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = ility of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Whole plant NDFD data from 2009 across 2 locations is shown in Table 24 and

26. The 6 reduced lignin positive events in non dormant germplasm showed a significant

(p301) increase in NDFD ranging from 8—15% when compared to the pooled negative

control. Event KKl79—2 had a 14.0% and 11.5% increase in NDFD in the non dormant

germplasm respectively.
 
 Table 25. Whole plant hay NDFD measurements for the reduced lignin alfalfa event

KKl79—2 in two fall dormant (FD) germplasms grown in 4 locations in 2009 compared to

commercial checks

cial  Germplasm  KKl79                                 %      P—

Check                                                     Diff.   value

FD1     42.17          6.07   4.27   7.86   16.80  <.001

FD1     42.17           1.83   0.00   3.66   4.53   0.101

FD1                                2.72   2.16   0.423

FD1                                5.12   8.47   0.003

FD2                               7.76   16.44  <.001

FD2     42.03          1.70   -0.17   3.56   4.21   0.134

FD2     42.03          0.76   -1.10   2.63   1.84   0.502

4          FD2      42.03    38.87    3.16    1.30    5.03    8.13    0.005

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 neutral detergent

fiber. ents the stible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

FD: Fall Dormant

KKl79=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — l)

% Diff 2 Percent ence between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence al of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 WO 03558                                                  

Table 26. Whole plant hay NDFD measurements for the reduced lignin alfalfa event

KKl79—2 in two non dormant (ND) asm grown in 2 locations in 2009 compared to

commercial checks

Commercial  asm  KKl79                                  %      P—

Check                                                     Diff.   value

.            .          .           .          .         9.75     0.126

ND1     41.46   37.12   4.34   0.39   8.30   11.70  0.071

ND1     41.46   34.71   6.74   2.79   10.70  19.43  0.005

ND1     41.46   35.70   5.75

40.38    37.77    2.60    —1.49    6.70    6.89    0.296

40.38    34.71    5.66

ND2    40.38   35.70   4.67   0.58   8.77   13.09  0.061

Abbreviations usedin the tables that follow:

NDFD 2 Neutral Detergent Fiber Digestibility, % of NDF (NDF 2 l detergent

fiber. Represents the indigestible and slowly digestible components in plant cell wall

(cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin (units 2 % of dry matter))

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KK179—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 Tables 25 and 26 contain whole plant NDFD data for the reduced lignin alfalfa

event KKl79—2 compared to commercial checks. The KKl79—2 event showed an

increase (p302) in NDFD when compared to 3 of the 4 fall dormant commercial checks

which ranged from 4.2 — 16.8% (Table 25, data from 4 locations). 2 event

showed an se (p302) in NDFD compared to all 4 non dormant commercial checks

(ND1) ranging from 9.8—19.4% (Table 26, data from 2 locations). The KKl79—2 event

showed an increase (p302) in NDFD compared to all 4 non dormant commercial checks

(ND2), which ranged from 8.8 —16.3% (Table 26, data from 2 locations).
 
 Example 8.
 
 Example 8: Yield Across Location Analysis for Reduced Lignin Alfalfa Events

Table 27. Yield across location analysis for 6 reduced lignin events for in fall dormant

(ED) and non—dormant (ND) backgrounds compared to pooled negative controls

l                                         P-

UCI @  Diff.   value

Mean

2008                                                       0.532

FD   2008  364.72          15.40   -12.94   43.74   4.41   0.370

[\3OO 00                                                              -12.21   0.048

2008                                               5.49    0.309

FD   2008  354.92          5.60    -29.85   41.05   1.60   0.794

[\3OO 00    358.74     349.32      .                                2.70     0.617

2009   1148.41   8                            -9.00   0.083

2009   156.50    1591.58                                    0.724

2009   1468.30   1591.58                                    0.164

2009   1577.84   1591.58                                    0.863

2009   1371.19   1591.58                                    0.011

2009   1459.44   8                     .               0.121

2009   591.17    764.86                                     0.018

2009   758.32                                              0.923

2009   771.81              .                135.10   0.91    0.928

2009   754.11             —10.75   —130.04  108.54 -0.881

NOO\O                                                                        0.014

2009   637.67                                      -16.63  0.064

iations used in the tables that follow:

Yield: Yield calculated on a per plant basis in grams

FD: Fall Dormant

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 d lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference between Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis (2—tailed

test for significance).
 
 The data in Table 27 shows the across on yield analysis for the 6 reduced

lignin events in the fall dormant (ED) and non dormant (ND) germplasms compared to

the pooled negative control. There were no significant decrease in yield is detected for

KKl79—2 when compared to the pooled negative controls.
 
 WO 03558                                                  

Table 28. Yield across location analysis for Event KKl79—2 compared to cial

checks

Com-                          Control                            % Diff.  P-

mercial                                                                                        value

Mean

Check

54.00    <.001

19.62    0.008

368.51    349.47                                  5.45      0.397

368.51    301.09                                 22.39    0.003

1361.60   1106.96                               23.00    0.003

1361.60   1289.66                               5.58     0.412

1361.60   1396.58                               -2.51     0.690

1361.60   1225.01                                11.15    0.120

129.80    2.31      0.802

61.42     -6.39     0.451

698.51    54.12    -58.66    166.89    7.75      0.427

8        ND     2009    752.63     618.75     133.89    21.11     246.66     21.64     0.052

Abbreviations used in the tables that follow:

Yield: Yield calculated on a per plant basis in grams

FD: Fall Dormant

ND: Non Dormant

KKl79=KKl79—2 reduced lignin alfalfa lead event

Delta 2 difference n Event and Control means (Event — Control)

% Diff 2 Percent difference between Event and Control (Delta / Control * 100)

Delta LCI @90% = Lower Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

Delta UCI @90% 2 Upper Confidence Interval of Delta value using an alpha level of

0.10

P—value = probability of a greater absolute difference under the null hypothesis led

test for significance).
 
 Yield data for d lignin alfalfa lead event in fall dormant (FD) and non—dormant

(ND) germplasms resulted in no significant yield decrease when compared to 8

commercial checks.
 
 BUDAPEST RESTRICTED CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT

BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL ITION OF

THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE

INTERNATIONAL FORM

RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 7.3

AND VIABILITY STATEMENT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 10.2

The American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®) has received your t of seeds/strain(s)/strain(s) in connection

with the filing of an application for patent. The following information is provided to fulfill Patent Office requirements.
 
 Ms. Monica Ravanello

to Company

1920 5th Street

Davis, CA 95616

Deposited on Behalf of: Monsanto Company

Date of Receipt of seeds/strain(s) by the ATCC®: April 18, 2011

Identification Reference by Depositor:   ATCC ®Patent Deposit Designation:             Quantity Received:

Alfalfa, Medicago sativa, KK179-2            PTA-11833            100packets/25 seeds in each packet

The ATCC® understands that:

1.       The deposit of these seeds/strain(s) does not grant ATCC® a license, either express or implied, to ge the

patent, and our release of these seeds/strain(s) to others does not grant them a license, either express or

implied, to infringe the patent.

2.       If the t should die or be destroyed during the effective term of the patent, it shall be your  responsibility

to replace it with viable material.  It is also your responsibility to supply a sufficient quantity for distribution for

the deposit term. ATCC® will distribute and maintain the material for 30 years or 5 years following the most

recent t for the deposit, whichever is longer. The United States and many other countries are signatory

to the Budapest Treaty.
 
 Prior to the issuance of a U.S. Patent, the ATCC® agrees in consideration for a me e charge, not to

distribute these seeds/strain(s) or any information relating o or to their deposit except as instructed by the

depositor or nt patent office.  After nt patent issues we are responsible to release the seeds/strain(s) and

they will be made available for distribution to the public without any restrictions. We will inform you of requests for the

seeds/strain(s) for 30 years from date of deposit.
 
 Doc ID: 20127

Revision: 2

ive Date: 10/13/2009

Page 1 of 2

The deposit was tested May 03, 2011 and on that date, the seeds/strain(s) were viable

International Depository Authority: American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®), Manassas, VA, USA

Signature of person having authority to ent ATCC®:

Ü·¹·¬¿´´§ ?·¹²»¼ ¾§ Ô¿¬¸¿ Î¿³¿µ®·?¸²¿²

ÜÒæ ¸¿ Î¿³¿µ®·?¸²¿²ô ±ãßÌÝÝô

Latha Ramakrishna n    ±«ã×ÐÔÍ Ü»°¿®¬³»²¬ô

»³¿·´ã´®¿³¿µ®·?¸²¿²à¿¬½½ò±®¹ô ½ãËÍ

Ü¿¬»æ îðïïòðëòðí ïíæîçæðï óðìùððù

May 3, 2011

ATCC® Patent Depository                                                Date

cc: Nikki Davis, Asst. GC

Ref: Docket or Case No: 57978

Doc ID: 20127

Revision: 2

Effective Date: 10/13/2009

Page 2 of 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
