
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 METHODS FOR INCREASING EFFICACY OF FOLR1 CANCER THERAPY

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS

       This application is a divisional of New Zealand Application No. 615742, filed on

March  2012,  and  is  related  to  International  Patent  Application  No.

, filed on 30 March 2012 and claims priority from U.S. Provisional

Application No. 61/471,007, filed on 1 April 2011; each of which is orated herein

by reference in its entirety.
 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

Field of the Invention

       The field of invention generally relates to increasing the efficacy of the treatment

of s characterized by the overexpression of human folate receptor 1 (FOLR1).
 
 More specifically, the invention concerns more ive treatment of patients

susceptible to or diagnosed with cancer, in which the tumor cells overexpress FOLR1 as

ined by a gene expression assay, with a FOLR1 antagonist, e.g., a FOLR1

immunoconjugate.
 
 Background Art

       Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the developed world, with over

one million people diagnosed with cancer and 500,000 deaths per year in the United

States alone.  Overall it is estimated that more than 1 in 3 people will develop some

form of cancer during their lifetime. There are more than 200 ent types of cancer,

four of breast, lung, colorectal, and prostate—account for over half of all new

cases (Jemal et al., 2003, Cancer J. Clin. 53:5-26).
 
        Folate Receptor 1 (FOLR1), also known as Folate Receptor-alpha, or Folate

Binding Protein, is an N-glycosylated n expressed on the plasma membrane of

cells. FOLR1 has a high affinity for folic acid and for several reduced folic acid

tives.   FOLR1   mediates   delivery   of   the   physiological   folate,   5-

methyltetrahydrofolate, to the or of cells.
 
         FOLR1 is overexpressed in a vast majority of ovarian cancers, as well as in



many uterine, endometrial, pancreatic, renal,  lung, and breast cancers, while the

sion of FOLR1 on normal tissues is restricted to the apical ne of epithelial

cells in the kidney proximal tubules, alveolar pneumocytes of the lung, bladder, testes,

choroid plexus, and thyroid (Weitman SD, et al., Cancer Res 52: 3396-3401 (1992);

Antony AC, Annu Rev

[TEXT CONTINUES ON PAGE 2]

- 1a -

Nutr 16:  501-521  (1996); Kalli KR, et a1.  Gynecol Oncol 108:  6 (2008)).   This

expression pattern of FOLRl makes it a desirable target for FOLRl —directed cancer therapy.
 
         Because ovarian cancer is typically asymptomatic until advanced stage, it is often

diagnosed at a late stage and has poor sis when treated with currently available

procedures, typically chemotherapeutic drugs after surgical de-bulking (von Gruenigen V et

al., Cancer 112: 2221-2227 (2008); Ayhan A et al., Am J Obstet Gynecol 196: 81 e81-86

(2007);  Harry VN et 61]., Obstet l Surv 64: 0 (2009)).  Thus, there is a clear

unmet medical need for more ive therapeutics for n cancers.
 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

        The present invention is based on the discovery of a dynamic range of expression of

FOLRI in tumor tissue and the discovery that tumors with increased levels of FOLRl

expression are more responsive to treatment with anti-FOLRl antibodies or anti-FOLRl

immunoconjugates.   The present ion advantageously permits treatment of ts

who have a greater  likelihood of responding to treatment by  administering therapeutic

agents, i.e., anti-FOLRl dies or anti-FOLRl conjugates, to patients who are

found to have an increased expression level of FOLRl.
 
         The present invention provides a method for identifying a subject pre-disposed to

respond favorably to a Folate Receptor 1 (FOLRl)—targeting anti-cancer therapeutic, the

method comprising detecting FOLRl expression in a tissue sample from the subject.
 
         The present invention also provides a method for sing the likelihood of

effectiveness of a cancer treatment, the method comprising administering a therapeutically

ive dose of a FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer therapeutic to a subject, wherein FOLRI

expression in a tissue sample from the subject has been found to be increased.
 
         The present invention also provides a method for predicting effectiveness of a low—

dose cancer treatment, the method comprising stering a therapeutically effective dose

of a FOLRl—targeting anti-cancer therapeutic to a subject, wherein said subject has been

found to have increased expression of FOLRl in a sample.
 
         In one embodiment, the methods are directed to ovarian carcinoma, non-small cell

lung adenocarcinoma (including ioloalveolar carcinoma), renal carcinomas,  and

endometrial carcinomas.
 
         In one embodiment, the extent and uniformity of FOLRI expression is detected by

immunohistochemistry (IHC), ﬂow cytometry, or nucleic acid ization.  in r

embodiment, the level of FOLRl expression is ed by immunohistochemistry. Non-

ng examples of IHC include IHC methods that distinguish n varying levels of

FOLRI and calibrated IHC methods, such as those bed herein.  The FOLRl

expression can be scored using an appropriate scoréng system, including but not limited to

the scoring methods described herein. For example, FOLRI expression can be scored using

a calibrated IHC method that includes a range  of 0, 1, 2, 3, and 3+ for staining intensity

with 0 being the lowest level of staining intensity and 3+ being the highest level of staining

intensity.  Alternatively or additionally, FOLRI expression can be scored using a calibrated

IHC method that includes a staining uniformity that ranges from focal (<25% of cells

stained),  to  heterogeneous (25-75%  of cells  d), to homogenous (>75%  of cells

d), where focal ng is the least uniform staining and neous is the most

uniform staining.
 
         In a further embodiment, the FOLRI sion in a sample (e.g., a tumor tissue

sample) is measured and compared to one or more reference samples and the FOLRl

sion in the tissue sample from a subject tumor, xenograft tumor, or cell line has a

FOLRI speciﬁc score correlating to extent and uniformity of expression as compared to the

one or more reference samples.  In various examples, a tissue sample or cell with a level 1,

2, 3 or 3+ FOLRl staining intensity with a homogeneous staining pattern is considered to

have increased FOLRl expression; a tissue sample or cell with a level 3 FOLRl staining

intensity with heterogeneous or focal staining patterns is considered to have increased

FOLRl expression. In another embodiment the FOLRI expression in a sample is measured

and compared to one or more reference samples to identify a comparable level of ng.
 
 In one embodiment, the reference sample has a pre-assigned IHC score and/or a pre-

determined antigen per cell (or ABC) number and the antigen or ABC number for the

sample tissue can be determined based on the comparison.
 
         In one embodiment, the FOLRl expression in a sample (e.g., a tumor tissue sample)

is ed and compared to one or more control samples and the FOLRl expression in the

tissue sample from a subject tumor, xenograft tumor, or cell line has a FOLRl specific score

correlating to extent and uniformity of expression as compared to the one or more control

samples.   In one embodiment, the FOLRl  expression in the sample is compared to a

negative control sample which demonstrates no or  low detectable FOLRI expression.  In

another embodiment, the FGLR'E expression in the sample is compared to a positive control

sample having increased FOLRl expressinn {level i, 2, 3. or 3+). In some embodin‘ien‘ts, the

control samples include, but are not limited in Namalwa, SW2, SWéZO, T47D, IGRG‘V’J,

300,19 FRI, i-Ielga, or KB cells.  In particular r‘nents, the control s include

cells or cell pellets from cells transfected with folate receptor (e.g., 300.19 FRl).
 
         In  one  embodiment,  the FOLRl-targeting  ancer therapeutic  is a FOLRI

immunoconjugate.  In one embodiment, the immunoconjugate comprises an anti-FOLRI

antibody, a linker, and a cytotoxin.
 
         In a further embodiment, the anti-FOLRI  antibody is huMOVl9.   In another

embodiment, the linker is selected from the group consisting of a cleavable linker, a non~

cleavable linker, a hydrophilic linker, and a dicarboxylic acid based linker.  in another

embodiment, the linker is selected from the group consisting: N—succinimidyl 4-(2—

pyridyldithio)pentanoate (SPP) or   inimidyl 4-(2-pyridyldithio)-2—sulfopentanoate

(sulfo—SPP); N—succinimidyl 4-(2-pyn'dyldithio)butanoate (SPDB) or N-succinimidyl 4-(2—

ldithio)-2—sulfobutanoate   -SPDB);   N—succinimidyl   4-(maleimidomethyl)

cyclohexanecarboxylate     (SMCC);     N—sulfosuccinimidyl     4-(maleimidomethyl)

exanecarboxylate    (sulfoSMCC);    N—succinimidyl(iodoacetyl)-aminobenzoate

(SIAB);   and   N—succinimidyl—[(N-maleimidopropionamido)—tetraethyleneglycol]   ester

(NHS-PEG4-maleimide).   In another embodiment, the linker is N—succinimidyl 4-(2-

pyridyldithio)-2—sulfobutanoate (sulfo-SPDB).  In another embodiment, the cytotoxic agent

is   selected   from   the   group   ting   of  a  sinoid,   maytansinoid   analog,

benzodiazepine, taxoid, CC—1065, CC-1065 analog, duocarmycin, duocarmycin analog,

calicheamicin,  atin,  dolastatin  analog,  auristatin,  tomaymycin  derivative,  and

leptomycin derivative or a prodrug of the agent.  In another embodiment, the cytotoxic

agent is a maytansinoid.  In another embodiment, the cytotoxic agent is N(2')-deacetyl-

N(2')—(3 -mercaptooxopropyl)-maytansine or N(2')—deacetyl-NZ-(4-mercapto—4-methyl— l -

oxopentyl)—maytansine.  In another embodiment, the cytotoxic agent is N(2')-deacetyl-N2—

(4-mercaptomethyl-l-oxopentyl)—maytansine  (DM4).   In a further embodiment,  the

immunoconjugate ses the antibody HUMOV19, sulfo-SPDB, and DM4 (IMGN853).
 
         The invention is also directed to a kit for measuring FOLRI expression in a subject

comprising a FOLRl detection reagent, and instructions for use.  In one embodiment, the

FOLRl detection reagent ses a FOLRl binding peptide, protein or a molecular probe

(i.e. c acid).  In another embodiment, the FOLRl detection reagent is an anti-FOLRI

antibody.  In another embodiment, the kit further comprises a secondary antibody which

binds the anti-FOLRl  antibody.   In one  embodiment the antibody is included at a

concentration of 0.5  to  7.5  ug/ml,  desirably  0.9  to  3.8  +/-  0.5  ug/ml.   In various

ments, the antibody is included at a concentration of 1.0 +/— 0.5 ug/ml, 1.5 +/— 0.5

ug/ml, 1.9 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 2.5 +/— 0.5 ug/ml, 3.0 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 3.5 +/- 0.5 pig/ml, 3.8 +/- 0.5

ug/ml, or up to 4.2 ug/ml. In another embodiment, the antibody is included in concentrated

solution with instructions for dilutions to achieve a ﬁnal concentration of 0.9 to 3.8 +/— 0.5

rig/ml.  In another embodiment, the kit further comprises a detection reagent selected from

the group ting of: an enzyme, a ﬂuorophore, a radioactive label, and a luminophore.
 
 In another embodiment, the ion reagent is selected from the group consisting of:

biotin, digo-xigenin, ﬂuorescein, tritium, and ine.
 
         The kit can also include instructions for ion and scoring of FOLRl expression.
 
 The kit can also include control or reference samples.  Non-limiting examples of control or

reference samples include tissue samples, cell pellets or cells.  The controi or reference

samples may be derived from tissue e cell lines (normal or tumor),  normal tissue

(normal control) or tumor tissues (positive control) samples.  Exemplary cell lines e

SW620, T47D, IGROV-l, HELA, KB, JEG-3 and cell lines stably or transiently transfected

with an expression vector that expresses FOLRl (e.g., 300.19FR1). Exemplary tissues that

detection methods are

may be used as normal reference tissues in the FOLRl expression

described herein and include normal lung, salivary gland, and pancreas.
 
         The ion is also directed to a method for identifying a cancer likely to respond

to an anti-FOLRl dy, or anti-FOLRl immunoconjugate comprising: (a) ting a

biological sample sing cells from said cancer with an agent that binds FOLRl protein

on the cell surface; (b)detecting binding of said agent that binds FOLRl protein on the cell

surface of said biological sample of (a); (c)  assigning a score to said binding of step (b),

wherein said score is assigned based on ison to one or more reference samples; and

(d) comparing said score in step (c) to the score of a reference tissue or cell, wherein a score

for said cancer FOLRl level that is greater than the score for a normal or low P‘O'LRI

sing reference sample or a score for said cancer FOLRl level that is equal to or

greater than the score for a high FOLRl expressing reference sample identifies said cancer

as likely to respond to an anti—FOLRI  antibody or OLRl  immunoconjugate.   In

certain embodiments, the cancer is ovarian or lung cancer.
 
         The invention is also directed to a method of identifying a tumor as sensitive to

treatment with an anti-FOLRI antibody, or anti—FOLRI immunoconjugate, said method

comprising: (a) measuring the level of FOLRI expression in a tumor tissue sample obtained

from said tumor, wherein said measuring comprises the use of a detection method that

guishes between staining intensity or ng uniformity in a FOLRI  expressing

cancer sample as compared to staining intensity or staining uniformity in one or more

reference samples; (b) determining a FOLRI staining intensity score for said tumor tissue

sample; and (c) comparing the FOLRI staining intensity score determined in step (b) to a

relative value ined by measuring FOLRI protein expression in at least one reference

sample, wherein said at least one reference sample is a tissue, cell, or cell pellet sample

which is not sensitive to treatment with an  anti—FOLRI  antibody,  or anti-FOLRl

immunoconjugate,  and  wherein  a  FOLRI  staining  intensity  score  for  said  sample

determined in step (b) that is higher than said relative value identiﬁes said tumor as being

sensitive to treatment with an anti—FOLRl antibody, or anti—FOLRI immunoconjugate.  In

certain ments, the detection method is performed manually or using an automated

system. In one embodiment, the detection method is IHC. In another embodiment, the IHC

is calibrated IHC that can distinguish different levels of FOLRl expression.
 
         The invention is also ed to a method of zing a therapeutic n with

an anti-FOLRI antibody or an anti-FOLRI immunoconjugate for a subject having lung or

ovarian , said method comprising: (a) contacting said sample from said subject with

an antibody that speciﬁcally binds cell surface FOLRI; (b) measuréng the binding of said

antibody in (a) to said cell surface FOLRl in said sample using a detection method that can

distinguish between staining intensity or staining mity in a FOLRI expressing cancer

sample as compared to staining intensity or staining uniformity in one or more reference

s and assigning a staining score to said sample; and (c) administering a high dose of

an anti-FOLRl immunoconjugate when the score in step (b) is less than or equal to the

score for a normal or low FOLRl expressing reference sample or administering a low dose

of an anti—FOLRI immunoconjugate when the score is r than the score for a normal or

low FOLRl expressing reference sample.
 
         The invention is also directed to a method of detecting the expression of cell surface

FOLRl on cancer cells in a tumor tissue sample from a t, said method comprising: (a)

obtaining tumor tissue sample, wherein said cancer sample is in-ﬁxed parafﬁn

embedded; (b) contacting said sample with an antibody that speciﬁcally binds cell surface

FOLR1; (c) measuring the binding of said antibody in (b) to said cell e FOLR1

in said tumor tissue sample using a detection method that can distinguish between

staining intensity or staining mity in a FOLR1 expressing cancer sample as

compared to staining intensity or staining uniformity in one or more reference

samples; and (d) assigning a FOLR1 expression score to said FOLR1 after comparing

the level of cell surface FOLR1 staining intensity or staining uniformity in said tumor

tissue sample to one or more reference samples.
 
         The invention is also directed to a method of identifying a subject having a

lung or ovarian cancer as likely to respond to a low dose OLR1 antibody or

anti-FOLR1 immunoconjugate treatment regimen, said method comprising: (a)

contacting a biological sample comprising cells from said n or lung cancer with

an agent that binds cell surface FOLR1 protein; (b) detecting binding of said agent to

said biological sample of (a);  (c) assigning a score to said binding of step (b),

wherein said score is assigned based on comparison to one or more reference samples;

and (d) comparing said score in step (c) to the score of a nce tissue or cell,

wherein a score for said ovarian or lung cancer FOLR1 level that is greater than the

score for a normal or low FOLR1 expressing reference sample or a score for said

n or lung cancer FOLR1 level that is equal to or r than the score for a

high FOLR1 expressing reference sample identifies said ovarian or lung cancer as

likely   to   respond   to   a   low   dose   OLR1   antibody   or   anti-FOLR1

immunoconjugate.    In  certain  embodiments,  the  method  r  comprises

administering  a  therapeutically  effective  amount  of  a  humanized  anti-FOLR1

antibody or an anti-FOLR1 immunoconjugate to said subject.
 
 ]       Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein

follow.

[0023b]       According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is ed a method

of identifying a tumor as sensitive to treatment with an anti-Folate Receptor 1

(FOLR1) dy or antigen binding fragment thereof, the method comprising:

(a)      measuring the level of FOLR1 expression in a tumor tissue sample

obtained from the tumor, wherein the measuring comprises the use of a detection

method that guishes between staining intensity and staining uniformity in a

FOLR1-expressing cancer sample as compared to staining intensity and staining

uniformity in one or more reference samples;



(b)     determining a FOLR1 staining intensity score for the tumor tissue

; and

(c)      comparing the FOLR1 staining intensity score ined in step (b) to

a reference value determined by measuring FOLR1 protein expression in at least one

reference sample, n the at least one reference sample is a , cell, or cell

pellet sample which is not sensitive to ent with an anti-FOLR1 antibody or

antigen binding fragment thereof, wherein a FOLR1 staining intensity score for the

tumor tissue sample determined in step (b) that is higher than the reference value

fies the tumor as being sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLR1 antibody or

antigen binding fragment thereof, and wherein the anti-FOLR1 antibody or antigen

binding fragment thereof for treatment comprises (i) a heavy chain (HC) CDR1

comprising the amino acid sequence GYFMN (SEQ ID NO:6); a HC CDR2

comprising the amino acid ce RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ ID NO:7); and

a HC CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence YDGSRAMDY (SEQ ID NO:8)

and  (ii)  a  light  chain  (LC)  CDR1  comprising  the  amino  acid  sequence

KASQSVSFAGTSLMH (SEQ ID NO:9); a LC CDR2 comprising the amino acid

sequence RASNLEA (SEQ ID NO:10); and a LC CDR3 comprising the amino acid

sequence QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID NO:11).

[0023c]       According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a

method of identifying a tumor as sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLR1

immunoconjugate, the method comprising:

(a)      measuring the level of FOLR1 expression in a tumor tissue sample

obtained from the tumor, wherein the ing comprises the use of a detection

method that distinguishes between staining intensity and staining uniformity in a

FOLR1 expressing cancer sample as compared to staining ity and staining

uniformity in one or more reference samples;

(b)     determining a FOLR1 staining intensity score for the tumor tissue

sample; and

(c)      comparing the FOLR1 staining intensity score determined in step (b) to

a reference value determined by measuring FOLR1 protein expression in at least one

reference sample, wherein the at least one nce sample is a tissue, cell, or cell

pellet   sample   which   is   not   sensitive   to   treatment   with   an   anti-FOLR1

immunoconjugate, wherein a FOLR1 ng intensity score for the tumor tissue

sample determined in step (b) that is higher than the reference value identifies the

tumor as being sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLR1 immunoconjugate, wherein

the anti-FOLR1 immunoconjugate for treatment has the formula (A) – (L) – (C),

wherein:

(A) comprises an anti-FOLR1 antibody or antigen binding fragment

thereof sing (i) a HC CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence GYFMN

(SEQ  ID  NO:6);  a  HC  CDR2  comprising  the  amino  acid  sequence

RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ ID NO:7); and a HC CDR3 sing the amino

acid sequence YDGSRAMDY (SEQ ID NO:8) and (ii) a LC CDR1 comprising the

amino acid sequence KASQSVSFAGTSLMH (SEQ ID NO:9); a LC CDR2

comprising the amino acid sequence RASNLEA (SEQ ID NO:10); and a LC CDR3

comprising the amino acid sequence QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID , (L) comprises a

linker, (C) ses a cytotoxic agent, and wherein (L) links (A) to (C).
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DRAWINGS

        Figure 1. Manual ng Method: Anti -FOLR1 antibodies detect FOLR1

expression in transfected cells.  300.19 cells were transfected with a polynucleotide

that encodes human FOLR1.   FOLR1 protein expression was detected using the

murine antibody BN3.2. Smith AE et al, Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2007 Oct;26(5):281 -

        Figure 2.  Manual ng Method: Anti-FOLR1 antibodies can distinguish

different levels of FOLR1 sion.  Antibody BN3.2 was used to detect FOLR1

expression in various xenograft cells. The limit of detection for the BN3.2 antibody

was approximately 4000 antibodies bound per cell (ABC).
 
 [TEXT CONTINUES ON PAGE 8]

        Figure  3.   Manual  Staining  Method:  Anti-FOLRl  antibodies  can  distinguish

different levels of FOLRI expression in tissue s.  BN3.2 was used to detect FOLRl

expression in both ovarian tumors (A), as well as non-small cell lung cancer tumors (B).
 
         Figure 4.  Manual Staining Method: Uniform FOLRl expression in ovarian and

NSCLC tumors. FOLRl expression was high in many of the ovaréan carcinomas, as well as

lung adenocarcinomas and bronchioloalveolar carcinomas tested.  The majority of ovarian

carcinoma samples had the highest intensity staining in serous or endometrioid cells.  In the

NSCLC tumors, the highest ABC values were found in bronchioloalveolar carcinoma and

papillary adenocarcinoma.
 
         Figure 5.  Manual Staining Method: FOLRl expression is generally conﬁned to the

membrane of NSCLC cells.  High resolution microscopy revealed that the majority of

FOLRl staining was restricted to the membrane in NSCLC .
 
         Figure 6.  Manual Staining : FOLRl expression is generally conﬁned to the

membrane of ovarian cancer cells. High resolution copy revealed that the majority of

FOLRl ng was restricted to the membrane in ovarian tumors.
 
         Figure 7.   In vivo efﬁcacy of 9-targeted conjugates in a KB xenograft

model.  FOLRl-targeting cleavable ate huMovl9-SPDB—DM4 (B) in ison

with  non-FOLRl—targeting  huC242-SPDB-DM4  (D),  and  non-cleavable  conjugate

huMovl9-PEG4-Mal-DM4 (C) in comparison with non-targeting huC242-PEG4Mal-DM4

(B) were tested using an ished xenograft model of KB cells implanted subcutaneous

into SCID mice.  Targeting of FOLRl by huMov19 resulted in signiﬁcant reduction in

mean tumor volume.
 
         Figure 8.  Dose-response anti-tumor ty of IMGN853 treatment in OVCAR—3

human ovarian carcinoma afts. Mice were treated with a single intravenous injection

of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 9. Dose—response anti-tumor ty of IMGN853 treatment in lGROV—l

human ovarian carcinoma xenografts. Mice were treated with a single intravenous injection

of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

enous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 10.  Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in OV-90

human ovarian carcinoma xenografts. Mice were treated with a single intravenous injection

of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 11.  Dose-response anti—tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in SKOV—3

human ovarian oma xenografts. Mice were treated with a single intravenous ion

of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 12.  Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in KB human

cervical adenocarcinoma xenografts.  Mice were treated with a single intravenous injection

of IMGN853 at 1.0, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

enous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure  13.  Automated  Staining  Methods:  Representative  Photographs  and

Histograms depicting FOLRl Expression in Cell Lines by IHC and Flow Cytometry.
 
 SW620, T47D, Igrov-l, 300.19/FR1, HeLa, and KB cells were all scored for FOLRl

staining intensity and uniformity.   SWti30 and IGROV-l  cells were scored 1—3 hetero,

T47D was scored 1-2 hetero, HeLa was scored 2-3 hetero, while 300.19/FR1 and KB were

scored 3 homo.
 
         Figure 14. Automated Staining Methods: Representative FOLR] Staining in Serous

Ovarian Cancer.  Staining patterns trating 3 homo, 2-3 homo, 2 homo, and 2 hetero

staining are shown for tissue sections from serous ovarian cancer by IHC.

[0038}        Figure  15.   ted  Staining  Methods:  Representative FOLRl  Staining  in

Endometrioid Ovarian Cancer.  Staining patterns demonstrating 3 homo, 2—3 homo, 3 focal,

and 1-2 hetero staining are shown for tissue sections from endometroid cancer by IHC.
 
         Figure  16.   Automated  Staining  Methods:  Representative FOLRl  Staining  in

NSCLC of the  Adenocarcinoma  e  (excluding  bronchioloalveolar  carcinomas).
 
 Staining patterns demonstrating 3 homo, 2-3 homo, 2 hetero, 2 homo, and 1-2 hetero

staining are shown for tissue sections from non-small cell lung cancer, arcinoma

subtype by IHC.

{0040}        Figure  17.   Automated  Staining  Methods:  Representative FOLRl  Staining  in

Endometrial arcinoma.  Staining patterns demonstrating 3 hetero, 2 hetero, and 1

hetero staining are shown for tissue ns from endometrial adenocarcinoma by IHC.

{0041}        Figure 18.  Automated ng Methods: Representative FOLRl Staining in Renal

Clear Cell oma.  Staining patterns demonstrating 2 homo, 2 hetero, and l heteto

staining are shown for tissue sections from renal cell cancer by IHC.

tests;        Figure 19.  The xic ty of iMGNSiiB in vitro.  Five Fiﬁil‘ﬁwpositive eeli

lines (KB? iGROV—l, IE i~3, SKOVG and OVCAR.~3} and two FOLRiwnegative cell, tines

(Nantaiwa and SW2) were analyzed for their sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of

liviGN8530 Cells were d to il‘VKiNSSB {solid line) or to lMGNtiSB plus 0.5 nM

unconingated iinMo'Vl9 (M9346A) (dashed iine) for 5 days, and the eeil survival was

determined by WSlmg-based assay, Representative data are shown, The percent of surviving

eelis was plotted against base it} tlnn Of'ii‘itj concentration of EMGN853.

rests}        Figure 20.  The sensitivity of‘tlie linQRl-positive cell lines to EMGNXSB versus the

level of itiOLRi expression.  y and speciﬁcity of EMGN853 was anaiyzed against

FGLRl—positive cell lines with a wide range of FOLRl  expression.   Cell lines were

incubated Win 3 and KB, —L and 3eg~3 were sneeifieaily sensitive to

iMGNts‘Sfi  While  unconjugated huMoVIS} (M9346A)  snowed decreased activity of the

conjugate.   Skew—3  and  ()V‘earﬁ  were  not  sensitiVe to EMGNSSS  and  unconjugaled

huMovl?) {ng346A) did not change the activity of the conjugate.

gss4t;        Figure 21.  Automated Staining Methods: Ovarian Carcinoma Xenograft etiieaey

models stained for FOLRl. Staining patients demonstrating 1:3 hetero (Swat '3), i—3 homo

(lgrov i), l~2 hetero (CV 90) and negative (SKOV 3:) are shown for tissue sections from

ovarian cancer xenografts by Eli—1C.

insist        Figure ‘22.   ted Staining Methods: Mouse  Xenograft Modeisi   Staining

patterns for FOLRl  in xei'iograi‘ts for NSCLC (A), Entionietriuni Carcinoma (B) and

al Carcinoma (C) Ceil Lines are shown. NSCLC samples demonstrated 23 homo or

2 homo staining,  endometrinni carcinoma demonstrated 2  hetero/3  focal  staining,  and

cervical carcinoma trated 3 homo staining.

tests}        ,li'ig‘are 23.  Assay control tissues ted staining guide.  Staining patterns for

negative (esophagus ti} and positive control samples ary gland L2 hetero? lung 21

homo, as 3 home) are shown as determined by automated EHC.

{9347;        Figure- 34. Tumor tissues automated staining guide. Representative staining patterns

for ievei 3,,  {eve}. 2, and level  i  staining are shown on control tissue as detennined by

automated iii-iii.

{sets}        Figure  25.   Turner  tissues  automated  staining  guide,   Representative  staining

ns for level 3?, level, 2, and Eevei  l/negative staining are shown. on control tissue as

determined by automated ii-lC.
 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ION

{00419}          The  present  inventien  es  methods  for  increasing  the  efﬁcacy  of er  the

iikelihood of response to the treatment of cancers characterised by the everexpressien of

FOLRI. The present invention is based on the discovery of a dynamic range of expression

of FOLRE in tumor tissue as ed to nerrnai tissue and the discovery that tumors with

increased. Eevels nf FOLK} expression are more responsive te treatment with anti—FOLK}

antibodies or antidi‘OlgRi irnmunoconjugate *,   We have else discovered differences in

sensitity and ion of dynamic ranges between auternated and manual methods. Kits

comprising one or more reagents useful fer practicing the methods of the invention are

further provided

1.        tions

        To facilitate an understanding of the present invention, a number of terms and

phrases are deﬁned below.

{0051}        The terms "human folate receptor 1" or ", as used herein, refers to any

native human FOLRI, unless ise indicated. The term "FOLRI" encompasses "full-

length," unprocessed FOLR] as well as any form of FOLRl that results from processing

within the cell. The term also encompasses naturally occurring variants of FOLRl, e.g.,

splice variants, c variants and isoforms. The FOLRI polypeptides described herein can

be isolated from a variety of sources, such as from human tissue types or from another

source, or prepared by recombinant or synthetic s.  es of FOLRI sequences

include,  but  are  not  limited to NCBI  reference  numbers  P15328,  NP_001092242.1,

AAX292681, AAXBH 19.}, Ni§>g057937.l, and NP_O57936.1, and those shown in SEQ iii)

NOS: 1 and 2.
 
         The term “increased expression" of FOLRI  refers to a sample which contains

elevated levels of FOLRl expression.  In one example, the FOLRI expression is measured

by IHC and given a staining intensity score or a staining uniformity score by comparison to

controls (e.g., calibrated controls)  exhibiting deﬁned scores (e.g. an intensity score of 3 is

given to the test sample if the intensity is comparable to the level 3 calibrated control or an

intensity of 2 is given to the test sample if the intensity is comparable to the level 2

ated  control).   For  example,   a  score  of  1,  2,  3,  or  3+  or  r  by

immunohistochemistry indicates an increased expression of FOLRI. A staining uniformity

that is geneous or homogeneous is also indicative of increased FOLRI expression.

“11.,

The staining iretensity and staining uniformity scores can be used alone or in combination

(e.g., 2 homo, 2 hetero, 3 homo, 3 hetero, etc.).  In another example, an increase in FOLRI

expression can be determined by detection of an increase of at least 2-fold, at least 3-fold, or

at least 5-fold) relative to control values (e.g., expression level in a tissue or cell from a

subject without cancer or with a cancer that does not have elevated FOLRI values).
 
         A "reference sample" can be used to ate and compare the s obtained in

the methods of the invention from a test sample. Reference samples can be cells (e.g., cell

lines,  cell  pellets)  or tissue.   The FOLRl levels  in the "reference sample" may be an

absolute or relative amount, a range of amount, a minimum and/or maximum amount, a

mean amount, and/or a median amount of FOLRI. The diagnostic methods of the invention

involve a comparison between expression levels of FOLRI in a test sample and a "reference

value."  In some embodiments, the reference value is the expression level of the FOLRl in a

reference sample. A reference value may be a predetermined value and may also be

determined from reference samples (e.g., control biological samples) tested in parallel with

the test samples. A reference value can be a single cut—off value, such as a median or mean

or a range of values, such as a conﬁdence al.  Reference values can be established for

various subgroups of individuals, such as individuals predisposed to cancer, individuals

having early or late stage cancer, male and/or female individuals, or individuals oing

cancer y. es of normal nce samples or values and positive reference

samples or values are described herein.
 
         In some embodiments, the reference sample is a sample from a healthy , in

particular a ponding tissue which is not affected by cancer.  These types of reference

samples are referred to as ve control samples.  In other embodiments, the reference

sample is a sample from a tumor tissue that expresses FOLRl.  These types of reference

samples are referred to as positive control samples.  Positivie control samples can also be

used as a ative indicator for the uniformity (hetero versus homo) and/or degree (1, 2,

3, 3+) of staining intensity, which correlates with the level of FOLRl expression.  Positive

control comparative samples are also referred to as calibrated reference samples which

demonstrate a dynamic range of staining intensity or mity. As shown in Examples 1-

9, non FOLRl-expressing nce samples include human esophagus tissue; low FOLRI

reference es salivary gland (particularly the intercalated ducts) and lung (particularly

respiratory lium) tissue; and high FOLRl-expressing tissue includes the pancreas

(particularly ductal cells).  For cell lines, low expressors include, but are not limited to

-12...
 
 OVCAR3 and T471), moderate expressers include, but are not limited in SW‘tSZi), i lRUX/ll,

515.63, and high expressers include, but are not limited to, KB and EGROVE.  Particularly

desirable positive high FOLK} nce is a cell line stably or transiently transt‘eeted with

Folate Receptor 1 (e.g., 300.19/FR1).  Appropriate positive and negative reference levels of

FOLRl for a particular cancer, may be determined by measuring levels of FOLRl in one or

more appropriate subjects, and such reference levels may be tailored to c populations

of subjects (e.g., a reference level may be age-matched so that comparisons may be made

n FOLRl levels in samples from subjects of a certain age and reference levels for a

ular disease state, phenotype, or lack thereof in a certain age group).  Such reference

levels may also be ed to c techniques that are used to measure levels of FOLRl

in biological samples (e.g., immunoassays, etc.), where the levels of FOLRl may differ

based on the speciﬁc technique that is used.
 
         The term "primary antibody" herein refers to an antibody that binds speciﬁcally to

the target n antigen in a tissue sample. A primary antibody is generally the ﬁrst

antibody used in an immunohistochemical (IHC) procedure.  In one embodiment, the

primary antibody is the only antibody used in an IHC procedure. The term "secondary

dy" herein refers to an antibody that binds speciﬁcally to a primary antibody, y

forming a bridge between the primary antibody and a subsequent reagent, if any. The

secondary antibody is generally the second antibody used in an immunohistochemical

procedure.

{9956}        A "sample" or "biological sample" of the present invention is of biological origin, in

speciﬁc embodiments, such as from eukaryotic organisms.  In preferred embodiments, the

sample is a human sample, but animal samples may also be used in the practice of the

invention. Non-limiting sources of a sample for use in the present invention include solid

tissue, biopsy aspirates, ascites, ﬂuidic extracts, blood, plasma, serum, spinal ﬂuid, lymph

ﬂuid, the external sections of the skin, respiratory, intestinal, and genitourinary , tears,

saliva, milk, tumors, organs, cell cultures and/or cell culture tuents, for example. The

present invention is ularly useful for cancer samples which generally comprise solid

tissue samples, or other bodily ﬂuids such as ascites, where the amount of available material

is small. The method can be used to examine an aspect of sion of FOLRl or a state of

a , including, but not limited to, ing different types of cells or tissues,

comparing different developmental stages, and detecting or determining the presence and/or

type of disease or abnormality.
 
         For the purposes herein, a "section" of a tissue sample refers to a single part or piece

of a tissue  sample,  e.g.  a thin  slice of tissue  or  cells  cut from a tissue  sample.  It  is

understood that multiple sections of tissue samples may be taken and subjected to analysis

according to the present invention. In some cases, the selected portion or section of tissue

ses a homogeneous population of cells. In other cases, the selected portion ses

a region of tissue, e.g. the lumen as a non-limiting example. The selected portion can be

small as one cell or two cells, or could represent néany thousands of cells, for example. In

most cases, the collection of cells is important, and while the invention has been described

for use in the detection of cellular components, the method may also be used for detecting

non-cellular components of an organism (e.g. soluble components in the blood as a non—

limiting example).

{0058]        By "correlate" or "correlating" is meant comparing, in any way, the performance

and/0r results of a ﬁrst analysis with the mance and/or results of a second analysis.
 
 For example, one may use the results of a ﬁrst analysis in carrying out the second analysis

and/or one may use the s of a ﬁrst analysis to determine whether a second analysis

should be performed and/or one may compare the results of a ﬁrst analysis with the results

of a second analysis.  In one embodiment, sed expression of FOLRl correlates with

increased likelihood of effectiveness of a FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer therapy.
 
 FREQ}       The term "antibody" means an immunoglobulin molecule that recognizes and

speciﬁcally  binds  to  a target,  such  as  a n,  polypeptide,  peptide,  carbohydrate,

polynucleotide,  lipid,  or  combinations  of the  foregoing  through at least  one  antigen

recognition site Wéthin the variable region of the immunoglobulin le.   As used

, the term ody” encompasses intact polyclonal dies, intact monoclonal

antibodies, antibody fragments (such as Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, and Fv fragments), single chain

Fv (scFv) mutants, multispeciﬁc antibodies such as bispeciﬁc antibodies generated from at

least two intact antibodies, chimeric antibodies, humanized antibodies, human antibodies,

fusion proteins comprising an antigen determination portion of an dy, and any other

modified immunoglobulin molecule sing an antigen recognition site so long as the

antibodies exhibit the desired ical activity. An antibody can be of any the five major

classes of immunoglobulins: EgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, or subclasses pes) thereof

(e.g. IgGl, lgGZ, IgG3, lgG4, IgAl and IgA2), based on the identity of their heavy-chain

constant s referred to as alpha, delta, epsilon, gamma, and mu, resFectively.  The

different classes of immunoglobulins have different and well known subunit structures and

three~dimensional  conﬁgurations.   dies  can  be  naked  or  conjugated  to  other

molecules such as toxins, sotopes, etc.

{0060}        A "blocking" antibody or an "antagonist" antibody is one which inhibits or reduces

ical activity of the antigen it binds, such as FOLRl. In a certain embodiment blocking

antibodies or antagonist antibodies substantially or completely inhibit the biological activity

of the antigen.  Desirably, the biological activity is reduced by 10%, 20%, 30%, 50%, 70%,

80%, 90%, 95%, or even 100%.

{006;}        The term FOLRI antibody" or "an antibody that binds to FOLRl" refers to an

antibody that is capable of binding FOLRl with sufﬁcient afﬁnity such that the dy is

useful as a diagnostic and/or therapeutic agent in targeting FOLRl. The extent of binding of

an anti-FOLRl antibody to an unrelated, non—FOLRl protein is less than about 10% of

binding of the antibody to FOLRl as measured, e.g., by a radioimmunoassay (RIA). In

certain embodiments, an antibody that binds to FOLRl has a dissociation constant (Kd) of

:1 nM, 5100 nM, 510 nM, 51 nM, or 50.1 nM.  Examples of anti-FOLRI antibodies are

known in the art and are disclosed in US Appl. Pub. No. 2012/0009181, which is herein

incorporated by reference.
 
         The term "antibody fragment" refers to a portion of an intact dy and refers to

the antigenic determining variable regions of an intact antibody.  Examples of antibody

fragments include, but are not d to Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, and Fv fragments, linear

antibodies,  single chain antibodies,  and multispecifrc antibodies formed from antibody

fragments.

{0063]        A "monoclonal antibody" refers to a homogeneous antibody population involved in

the highly speciﬁc recognition and binding of a single antigenic determinant, or epitope.
 
 This is in contrast to polyclonal antibodies that typically include different antibodies

directed  against  different  antigenic  inants.    The  term  “monoclonal  antibody”

encompasses both intact and full-length monoclonal antibodies as well as antibody

fragments (such as Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, Fv), single chain (scFv) mutants, fusion proteins

comprising  an  dy  portion,  and  any  other  modiﬁed  immunoglobulin  molecule

comprising an antigen recognition site.  Furthermore, ”monoclonal dy" refers to such

antibodies made in any number of manners including but not limited to by hybridoma,

phage selection, recombinant expression, and transgenic animals.

{90%}       The term pe" or "antigenic determinant" are used interchangeably herein and

refer to that portion of an n capable of being recognized and specifically bound by a

particular antibody.  When the antigen is a polypeptide, epitopes can be formed both from

contiguous amino acids and noncontiguous amino acids juxtaposed by tertiary folding of a

protein.  es formed from uous amino acids are typically retained upon protein

denaturing, whereas epitopes formed by tertiary folding are typically lost upon protein

denaturing.  An epitope typically includes at least 3, and more y, at least 5 or 8-10

amino acids in a unique spatial conformation.
 
         "Binding affinity" generally refers to the strength of the sum total of noncovalent

interactions between a single g site of a moiecule (e.g., an dy) and its binding

partner (e.g., an antigen). Unless indicated otherwise, as used herein, "binding afﬁnity"

refers to intrinsic binding afﬁnity which reﬂects a 1:1 interaction between s of a

binding pair (e.g., antibody and antigen). The afﬁnity of a molecule X for its partner Y can

generally be represented by the dissociation constant (Kd). Afﬁnity can be measured by

common methods  known  in the  art,  including those  described herein.  Low-afﬁnity

antibodies generally bind antigen slowly and tend to iate readily, whereas high—

afﬁnity dies generally bind antigen faster and tend to remain bound . A varéety

of methods of measuring binding afﬁnity are known in the art, any of which can be used for

purposes of the present invention. Speciﬁc illustrative embodiments are described in the

following.
 
          "Or better" when used herein to refer to binding afﬁnity refers to a stronger binding

n a molecule and its binding partner. "Or better" when used herein refers to a

stronger binding, represented by a r cal Kd value. For example, an antibody

which has an y for an antigen of "0.6 nM or better", the antibody’s afﬁnity for the

antigen is <0.6 nM, i.e. 0.59 nM, 0.58 nM, 0.57 nM etc. or any value less than 0.6 nM.
 
         The phrase  "substantially similar,"  or  "substantially the same",  as used herein,

denotes a sufﬁciently high degree of similarity between two numeric values (generally one

associated  with  an  antibody  of  the  invention  and  the  other  associated  with  a

reference/comparator antibody)  such that one of skill in the art would consider the

difference  between  the  two  values  to  be  of little  or  no  biological  and/or  statistical

signiﬁcance within the context of the ical characteristics ed by said values

(e.g., Kd values). The difference between said two values is less than about 50%, less than

about 40%, less than about 30%, less than about 20%, or less than about 10% as a function

of the value for the reference/comparator antibody.

»

{006813          A polypeptide,  antibody,  polynucleotide,  ,  cell,  or  composition which  is

"isolated" is a polypeptide, antibody, polynucleotide, vector, cell, or composition which is

in a form not found in nature. isolated polypeptides, antibodies, polynucleotides, vectors,

cell or compositions include those which have been puriﬁed to a degree that they are no

longer in a form in which they are found in nature. In some embodiments, an antibody,

polyaucleotide, vector, cell, or composition which is isolated is substantially pure.
 
         As used herein, "substantially pure" refers to material which is at least 50% pure

(i.e., free from inants), at least 90% pure, at least 95% pure, at least 98% pure, or at

least 99% pure.
 
         The term "immunoconjugate" or "conjugate" as used herein refers to a compound or

a derivative thereof that is linked to a cell binding agent (i.e., an anti-FOLRl antibody or

fragment f) and is deﬁned by a generic formula: C-L-A, wherein C = cytotoxin, L =

linker,  and A — cell  binding  agent  or  OLRl  antibody  or  antibody  fragment.

conjugates can also be deﬁned by the generic formula in reverse order: A-L-C.

[0%71]        A "linker" is any chemical moiety that is capable of linking a compound, usually a

drug, such as a maytansinoid, to a cell-binding agent such as an anti FOLRI antibody or a

nt f in  a  stable,  covalent manner.   s  can be  susceptible  to  or be

ntially resistant to acid-induced cleavage, light-induced cleavage, peptidase-induced

cleavage, esterase-induced cleavage, and disulﬁde bond cleavage, at conditions under which

the compound or the antibody remains active. Suitable linkers are well known in the art and

e, for example, disulﬁde groups, thioether groups, acid labile groups, photolabile

, peptidase labile groups and se labile groups.  s also include charged

linkers, and hydrophilic forms thereof as described herein and know in the art.
 
         The terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the logical condition

in mammals in which a population of cells are characterized by unregulated cell growth.
 
 Examples of cancer include, but are not limited to, oma, lymphoma, blastoma,

sarcoma, and leukemia.  More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell

cancer, cell lung cancer, non—small cell lung cancer, adenocarcinoma of the lung,

squamous  carcinoma of the  lung,  cancer of the peritoneum,  hepatocellular cancer,

gastrointestinal cancer, pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer,

liver cancer,  bladder  cancer,  hepatoma,  breast  cancer,  colon  cancer,  colorectal  cancer,

endometrial or uterine carcinoma, salivary gland carcinoma, kidney cancer, liver cancer,

prostate cancer, vulval cancer, thyroid cancer, hepatic carcinoma and various types of head

and neck s.

{0073]         "Tumor" and "neoplasm" refer to any mass of tissue that result from excessive cell

growth or proliferation, either benign (noncancerous) or malignant (cancerous) including

pre—cancerous lesions.
 
         The terms "cancer cell," "tumor cell," and grammatical equivalents refer to the total

population of cells deréved from a tumor or a pre—cancerous lesion, including both nontumorigenic

cells, which comprise the bulk of the tumor cell population, and tumorigenic

stem cells (cancer stem cells). As used herein, the term “tumor cell” will be modiﬁed by the

term “non—tumorigenic” when ing solely to those tumor cells lacking the capacity to

renew and entiate to distinguish those tumor cells from cancer stem cells.
 
         The term "subject" refers to any animal (e. g., a mammal), including, but not limited

to humans, non-human primates, rodents, and the like, which is to be the ent of a

particular treatment.  Typically, the terms "subject" and "patient" are used interchangeably

herein in reference to a human subject.
 
         Administration  "in  combination with"  one  or more  further therapeutic  agents

includes simultaneous (concurrent) and consecutive administration in any order.
 
          The term "pharmaceutical formulation" refers to a preparation which is in such form

as to permit the ical activity of the active ingredient to be effective, and which

contains no additional components which are ptably toxic to a subject to which the

formulation would be administered. Such formulation can be sterile.
 
         An "effective amount" of an antibody as disclosed herein is an amount sufﬁcient to

carry  out  a  cally  stated  purpose.  An  "effective  amoun    can  be  determined

empirically and in a e manner, in relation to the stated e.
 
         The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an amount of an antibody or

other drug effective to "treat" a disease or disorder in a subject or mammal. In the case of

cancer, the therapeutically ive amount of the drug can reduce the number of cancer

cells; reduce the tumor size; inhibit (i.e., slow to some extent and in a certain embodiment,

stop) cancer cell inﬁltration into eral organs; inhibit (i.e., slow to some extent and in a

n embodiment, stop) tumor metastasis; inhibit, to some extent, tumor growth; and/or

relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. See the

deﬁnition herein of "treating". To the extent the drug can t growth and/or kill existing

cancer cells, it can be cytostatic and/or cytotoxic. In certain embodiments, identiﬁcation of

-18<—

increased FOLRl levels allows for stration of decreased amounts of the FOLRl-

targeting eutic to achieve the same therapeutic effect as seen with higher dosages. A

"prophylactically effective amount" refers to an amount effective, at dosages and for periods

of time necessary, to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically but not necessarély,

since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease, the

prophylactically effective amount will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.
 
         The term "respond favorably" generally refers to causing a beneficial state in a

subject.  With respect to cancer treatment, the term refers to providing a therapeutic effect

on the subject.  Positive therapeutic effects in cancer can be measured in a number of ways

(See,  W.A.  Weber,  J.  Nucl.  Med.  50:lS-IOS  (2009)).   For  example,  tumor  growth

inhibition, molecular marker expression, serum marker expression, and molecular imaging

techniques can all be used to assess therapeutic efﬁcacy of an anti—cancer therapeutic.  With

to tumor growth inhibition, according to NCI standards, a T/C S 42% is the

minimum level of anti-tumor activity. A T/C <10% is considered a high umor activity

level, with T/C (%) = Median tumor volume of the treated / Median tumor volume of the

control x 100.
 
         The word "label" when used herein refers to a detectable compound or composition

which is conjugated ly or indirectly to the antibody so as to te a "labeled"

antibody. The label can be detectable by itself (e.g. radioisotope labels or ﬂuorescent labels)

or,  in  the  case  of an enzymatic  label,  can  catalyze  chemical  alteration of a  substrate

compound or composition which is detectable.
 
         A "chemotherapeutic agent" is a al compound useful in the treatment of

cancer, regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include,

are  not  limited  to:  alkyating  ,  antimetabolites,  spindle  poison  plant  alkaloids,

cytoxic/antitumor antibiotics, topoisomerase inhibitors, antibodies, photosensitizers, and

kinase tors. herapeutic agents include nds used in "targeted therapy"

and conventional chemotherapy.
 
         Terms such as ing" or "treatment" or "to treat" or "alleviating" or “to alleviate”

refer to both 1) eutic measures that cure, slow down, lessen symptoms of, and/or halt

progression  of a  diagnosed  pathologic  condition  or  disorder  and  2)  prophylactic  or

preventative measures that t and/or slow the development of a targeted pathologic

condition or disorder.  Thus, those in need of treatment include those already with the

disorder;  those prone to  have the disorder;  and those in whom the disorder is to be



ted.  in certain embodiments, a subject is sﬁtliy "treated” for cane-er according

to the methods of the present ion if the patient shows one or more of the following:

reduction in eaehexia, increase in survival time, elongation in time to tumor ssion,

reduction in tumor mass, reduction in tumor burden and/or a prolongation in time to tumor

metastasis, time to tumor recurrence, tumor response, eompiete response, partiai response,

stabie disease, progressive disease, progression tree survival (FPS), overali survival (08),

each as measured by rds set by the Nationai Cancer institute and the US. Food and

Drug Administration for the approvai of new drugs. See Johnson et ai, (2003) 3, Che.
 
 Oneoi. 21t?):i404~i41 t.
 
          "Progression  free  survivai"  (PPS),  also  referred  to  as  or  "Time  to  Tumor

Progression" (YEP) indicates the length of time during and after treatment that the cancer

does not        Progression-free survival includes the amount of time patients have

grow.

experéenced a complete response or a partial response, as well as the amount of time

patients have enced stable disease.
 
          "Disease free survival" (DFS) refers to the length of time during and after treatment

that the patient s free of disease.
 
          "Overall Survival" (OS) refers to a gation in life expectancy as compared to

naive or untreated individuals or patients.
 
         As used in the present sure and claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the"

include plural forms unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
 
         It is understood that wherever embodiments are described herein with the language

"comprising,"  otherwise analogous embodiments described in terms of "consisting of‘

and/or "consisting essentially of" are also provided.
 
         The term "and/or" as used in a phrase such as "A and/or B” herein is intended to

include both "A and B," "A or B," "A," and "B."  Likewise, the term "and/or" as used in a

phrase  such as  "A,  B,  and/or  C"  is  intended to  encompass  each  of the  following

embodiments: A, B, and C; A, B, or C; A or C; A or B; B or C; A and C; A and B; B and

C; A (alone); B (alone); and C ).

11.       Biological samples

        Biological samples are often ﬁxed with a ﬁxative. de ves such as

formalin (formaldehyde) and glutaraldehyde are typically used. Tissue s fixed using

other ﬁxation techniques such as alcohol immersion (Battifora and Kopinski, J. Histochem.

_20e

Cytechem. (ll-$86) 34:109.?) are also suitable. The samples used may also be embedded in

n. in one embodiment, the tissue samples are both lbrmalinaﬁxed and paraffin--

embedded .  in another embodiment, the FFPE block is hematoxylin and ecsin

stained prior to selecting ene 01' more portions fer analysis in order to select speciﬁc areats)

fer the FFPE core sample.  Methods of preparéng tissue blocks from these particulate

specimens have been used in previous EEC studies cf varicus pregnnstic factors, and/er is

well. known to those of skill in the art (see, for example, Abbcndanzo et al, Am 3 Clin

Pathol. @990 l‘vlay;93(5):698»702; Allred et al., Arch Surg. l99t) .Ean;l25(l):lll7—l3).

{@591}        Brieﬂy, any intact organ or tissue may be cut into fairly small pieces and incubated

in various ﬁxatives (eg. formalin, alcohol, etc.) for varying periods of time until the tissue

is "ﬁxed". The samples may be virtually any intact tissue surgically removed from the body.
 
 The samples may be cut into reasonably small piece(s) that ﬁt on the equipment routinely

used in histopathology laboratories. The size of the cut pieces typically ranges from a few

millimeters to a few centimeters.
 
 III.      Detection Antibody Conjugates

        The present invention further provides antibodies against FOLRl, generally of the

monoclonal type, that are linked to at least one agent to form a detection antibody

conjugate. In order to increase the efﬁcacy of antibody molecules as diagnostic it is

conventional to link or ntly bind or complex at least one desired molecule or moiety.
 
 Such a molecule or moiety may be, but is not limited to, at least one reporter le. A

reporter molecule is deﬁned as any moiety that may be ed using an assay. Non-

ng examples of reporter molecules that have been conjugated to antibodies include

enzymes,   radiolabels,   haptens,   ﬂuorescent   labels,   phosphorescent   molecules,

chemiluminescent  molecules,  chromophores,  luminescent  molecules,  photoafﬁnity

molecules, colored particles and/or ligands, such as biotin.
 
         Any cell binding agent (e.g., an dy or polypeptide) of sufﬁcient ivity,

speciﬁcity or afﬁnity may be employed as the basis for detection of the FOLRl ptide.
 
 Such  properties  may  be  evaluated  using  conventional  logical  ing

methodology known to those of skill in the art. Sites for binding to biological active

molecules in the antibody molecule, in addition to the canonical n binding sites,

include sites that reside in the le domain that can bind the antigen. In addition, the

-21“.

variable domain is involved in antibody self—binding (Kang et al., 1988) and contains

epitopes (idiotopes) recognized by anti-antibodies (Kohler et al., 1989).
 
         Certain examples of protein binding (e.g., antibody) conjugates. are those conjugates

in  which  the  protein  binding  agent  (e.g.,  dy)  is  linked  to  a  detectable  label.
 
 "Detectable labels" are compounds and/or elements that can be detected due to their speciﬁc

functional properties, and/or chemical characteristics, the use of which allows the antibody

to which they are attached to be detected, and/or further quantiﬁed if desired.

{0095}        Many appropriate imaging agents are known in the art, as are methods for their

attachment to antibodies (see, for e.g., US. Pat. Nos. 5,021,236; 4,938,948; and 4,472,509,

each incorporated herein by reference). The imaging es used can be paramagnetic

ions;  ctive  isotopes;  ﬂuorochromes;  NMR—detectable  substances;  and/or  X—ray

imaging, for example.
 
         Exemplary  ﬂuorescent  labeis  contemplated  for  use  as  n  binding  (e.g.,

antibody) conjugates include Alexa 350, Alexa 430, Alexa 488, AMCA, BODIPY 630/650,

BODIPY 650/665, BODIPY—FL, BODIPY-R6G, BODIPY-TMR, BODIPY-TRX, Cascade

Blue, Cy3, Cy5,6-FAM, t 488, Fluorescein Isothiocyanate, Green ﬂuorescent protein

(GFP),  HEX, 6-JOE, Oregon Green 488, Oregon Green 500, Oregon Green 514, Paciﬁc

Blue, Phycoerythrin, REG, Rhodamine Green, Rhodamine Red, ethyl rhodamine

(TMR), Renographin, ROX, TAMRA, TET, Tetramethylrhodamine, Texas Red, and

derivatives of these labels (i.e halogenated analogues, d with ocyanate or other

linker for conjugating, etc), for example. An ary radiolabel is tritium.

£13097}          Protein binding (e.g., antibody) detection ates contemplated in the present

invention include those for use in Vitro, where the antibody is linked to a secondary binding

ligand and/or to an enzyme (an enzyme tag) that will generate a colored product upon

contact with  a chromogenic  substrate.  Examples  of suitable  enzymes include  urease,

ne phosphatase, (horseradish) hydrogen peroxidase and/or glucose oxidase.  Preferred

secondary binding ligands are biotin and/or avidin and streptavidin compounds.  The use of

such labels is well known to those of skill in the art and are described, for example, in US.
 
 Pat. Nos. 3,817,837; 3,850,752; 3,939,350; 3,996,345; 4,277,437; 4,275,149 and 4,366,241;

each incorporated herein by reference.
 
         Molecules containing azido groups may also be used to form covalent bonds to

ns  through  reactive  nitrene  intermediates  that  are  generated  by  low  intensity

ultraviolet light (Potter & Haley, 1983). In particular, 2- and 8—azido analogues of purine

nucleotides have been used as site-directed photoprobes to identify tide binding

proteins in crude cell extracts (Owens & Haley, 1987; Atherton et al., 1985). The 2- and 8-

azido nucleotides have also been used to map nucleotide binding domains of puriﬁed

ns (Khatoon et al., 1989; King et al., 1989; and Dholakia et al., 1989) and may be used

as antibody binding agents.
 
         Several methods are known in the art for the ment or ation of an

antibody to its conjugate moiety. Some attachment methods involve the use of a metal

chelate   x   employing,   for  e,   an  c   chelating   agent  such  a

diethylenetréaminepentaacetic acid ide (DTPA); ethylenetriaminetetraacetic acid; N-

chloro-p-toluenesulfonamide; and/or tetrachloro-3a-6d-diphenylglycouril-3 attached to the

antibody (US. Pat. Nos. 4,472,509 and 948, each incorporated herein by reference).
 
 Monoclonal antibodies may also be reacted with an enzyme in the presence of a coupling

agent such as aldehyde or periodate.  Protein g (e. g., antibody) conjugates with

ﬂuorescein markers are prepared in the presence of these coupling agents or by reaction

with an isothiocyanate. In US. Pat. No. 4,938,948, imaging of breast tumors, for example,

is achieved using monoclonal antibodies, and the detectable imaging moieties are bound to

the antibody using linkers such as methyl-p-hydroxybenzimidate or N—succinimidyl(4-

hydroxyphenyl)—propionate.
 
        In other embodiments, derivatization of immunoglobulins by selectively ucing

sulﬂiydryl groups in the Fc region of an immunoglobulin using reaction conditions that do

not alter the dy combining site are contemplated. Antibody conjugates produced

according to this methodo‘rogy are disclosed to exhibit improved longevity, speciﬁcity and

sensitivity  (US.  Pat.  No.  5,196,066,  orated  herein  by  reference).  Site-specific

attachment of effector or reporter molecules, wherein the reporter or effector molecule is

conjugated to a carbohydrate residue in the Fc region, have also been disclosed in the

literature (O'Shannessy et al., 1987).
 
        In other embodiments of the invention, immunoglobulins are radiolabeled with

nuclides such as m.  In additional embodiments, nanogold particles (such as sizes from

about 0.5 nm-40 nm) and/or Quantum Dots (Hayward, Calif.) are employed.
 
 IV.    Enzymes and Substrates (Chromagens)

       The use of substrates and indicators is contemplated for detection of FOLRl, such as

the exemplary embodiments provided below, for example.

_23,

       Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) is an enzyme that ﬁrst forms a complex with

hydrogen de and then causes it to decompose, resulting in water and atomic oxygen.
 
 Like many other enzymes, HRP and some HRP—like activities can be inhibited by excess

substrate. The complex formed between HRP and excess en peroxide is catalytically

inactive and in the absence of an electron donor (e.g. chromogenic substance) is reversibly

inhibited. It is the excess hydrogen peroxide and the absence of an electron donor that

brings about quenching of endogenous HRP activities.
 
 }       When used in assays systems, HRP can also be used to convert a deﬁned substrate

into its ted chromagen, thus causing a color change.   The HRP enzyme may be

conjugated to an antibody, protein, peptide, polymer, or other molecule by a number of

methods.   Such methods are known in the art.   Adding aldehyde to a solution

containing an admixture of HRP and antibody will result in more antibody molecules being

conjugated to each other than to the enzyme. In the two-step procedure, HRP reacts with the

bifunctional reagents ﬁrst. In the second stage, only activated HRP is admixed with the

antibody, resulting in much more efﬁcient labelling and no polymerization. HRP is also

conjugated to (strept)avidin using the two—step aldehyde procedure. This form is used

in procedures where LAB and LSAB are substrate, for example. Conjugation with biotin

also  involves  two  steps,  as  biotin  must  ﬁrst  be  derivatized  to  the  biotinyl-N—

hydroxysuccinimide  ester  or to  biotin hydrazide before  it  can be reacted with the

epsilonamino groups of the HRP .

       3,3'—Diaminobenzidine (DAB) is a ate for enzymes such as HRP that produces

a brown end product that is highly insoluble in alcohol and other organic solvents.
 
 Oxidation of DAB also causes polymerization, resulting in the ability to react with osmium

tetroxide, and thus increasing its staining intensity and electron density. Of the several

metals and methods used to intensify the optical density of polymerized DAB, gold chloride

in combination with silver sulﬁde appears to be the most successful.

       3-Amino—9-ethylcarbazole (ABC) is  a substrate for s such as HRP.  Upon

ion,  forms a rose-red end product that is alcohol  soluble.  Therefore,  specimens

processed with ABC must not be immersed in alcohol or alcoholic solutions (e.g., Harris'

hematoxylin). Instead, an s counterstain and mounting medium should be used. ABC

is unfortunately susceptible to further oxidation and, when exposed to ive light, will

fade in intensity. Storage in the dark is ore recommended.



       ro-1—naphthol (CN) is a substrate for enzymes such as HRP and precipitates

as a blue end product. e CN is soluble in alcohol and other organic solvents, the

specimen must not be dehydrated, exposed to alcoholic counterstains, or coverslipped with

mounting media containing organic solvents. Unlike DAB, CN tends to diffase from the site

of precipitation.

       ylenediamine dihydrochloride/pyrocatechol (Hanker-Yates reagent) is a an

on donor substrate for enzymes such as HRP and gives a blue-black reaction product

that is insoluble in alcohol and other organic solvents. Like polymerized DAB, this on

product can be osmicated. Varying results have been achieved with Hanker-Yates reagent in

immunoperoxidase techniques.

[0100}        Calf intestine alkaline phosphatase (AP) (molecular weight 100 kD) is an enzyme

that removes (by ysis) and transfers ate groups from c esters by

breaking the P-O bond; an intermediate enzyme-substrate bond is brieﬂy formed. The chief

metal activators for AP are Mg++, Mn++ and Ca++.

{0101]        AP had not been used extensively in immunohistochemistry until publication of the

unlabeled alkaline phosphataseantialkaline phosphatase (APAAP) procedure. The soluble

immune complexes utilized in this procedure have molecular s of approximately 560

kD. The major advantage of the APAAP ure compared to the PAP technique is the

lack of interference posed by endogenous peroxidase activity. Because of the ial

distraction of endogenous peroxidase activity on PAP staining, the APAAP technique is

recommended for use on blood and bone marrow smears. Endogenous alkaline atase

activity from bone, kidney, liver and some white cells can be inhibited by the addition of l

min-ft  levamisole  to  the  substrate  solution,  although 5 mM has been found to be more

effective. Intestinal alkaline phosphatases are not adequately inhibited by levamisoie.
 
         In  the  immunoalkaline  phosphatase  staining  method,  the  enzyme  hydrntyzes

naphthol phosphate esters (substrate) to phenolic compounds and phosphates. The phenols

couple to colorless diazonium salts (chromogen) to produce insoluble, colored azo dyes.
 
 Several different combinations of substrates and chromogens have been used sfully.
 
         Naphthol AS-MX phosphate can be used in its acid form or as the sodium salt. The

chromogens Fast Red TR and Fast Blue BB e a bright red or blue end product,

tively. Both are soluble in alcoholic and other organic solvents, so aqueous mounting

media must be used. Fast Red TR is preferred when staining cell smears.

{area}        onal exemplary substrates include naphthol AS—BI phosphate, naphthol AS-

TR phosphate and 5—bromochloro-3—indoxyl phosphate .  Other le

chromogens include Fast Red LB, Fast Garnet GBC, Nitro Blue olium (NBT)

iodonitrotetrazolium Violet (INT), and derivatives of the structures, for example.
 
 V.     Immunodetection Methods

        In  still  further  embodiments,  the t  invention  concerns  immunodetection

methods for binding, purifying, removing, quantifying and/or otherwése generally detecting

biological components such as a ligand as contemplated by the present invention. The

antibodies prepared in accordance with the present invention may be employed to detect

wild-type  and/or  mutant  ligand  proteins,  polypeptides  and/or es.  As described

throughout the  present application,  the  use of wild—type  and/or mutant  ligand speciﬁc

antibodies  is  contemplated.  Some immunodetection  methods  include ﬂow  cytometry,

enzyme   linked   imrnunosorbent   assay   (ELISA),   radioimmunoassay   (RIA),

immunoradiometric assay, ﬂuoroimmunoassay, chemiluminescent assay, bioluminescent

useful immunodetection

assay, and Western blot to mention a few. The steps of various

methods have been described in the scientiﬁc literature, such as, e.g., tle M H and

Ben-Zeev 0, Methods Mol Biol. 1999;109:215-37; Gulbis B and Galand P, Hum Pathol.

199% Dec;24(12):1271—85; and De Jager R et al., Semin Nucl Med. 1993 Apr;23(2):l65-79,

each incorporated herein by reference.
 
         In general, the immunobinding methods include obtaining a sample ted of

comprising ligand protein, polypeptide and/or peptide, and ting the sample with a

ﬁrst ligand binding peptide (e.g., an anti-ligand antibody) in accordance with the present

invention,  as  the  case may  be,  under  conditions  effective  to  allow the  formation  of

immunocomplexes.

        in terms of antigen detection, the biological sample ed may be any sample

that is suspected of comprising a wild—type or mutant ligand n-speciﬁc antigen, such

as a tissue section or specimen, a homogenized tissue extract, biopsy tes, a cell,

separated and/or puriﬁed forms of any of the above wild-type or mutant FOLRl-containing

compositions, or even any biological ﬂuid that comes into contact with the , including

blood and/or serum, although tissue samples or extracts are preferred.
 
         Contacting  the  chosen  biological  sample  with  the  antibody  under  effective

ions and for a period of time sufﬁcient to allow the formation of immune complexes

-26,

(prémary  immune  complexes)  is  generally  a  matter  of simply  adding  the  antibody

composition to the sample and incubating the mixture for a period of time long enough for

the dies to form immune complexes with, i.e., to bind to, any ligand protein antigens

present. After this time, the sample-antibody composition, such as a tissue section, ELISA

plate, dot blot or western blot, will generally be washed to remove any non-speciﬁcally

bound antibody  species,  allowing  only those  antibodies  speciﬁcally bound within the

prémary immune complexes to be detected.
 
         In l, the detection of immunocomplex formation is well known in the art and

may be achieved through the application of numerous approaches. These methods are

generally based upon the detection of a label or marker, such as any of those radioactive,

ﬂuorescent, biological and tic tags. US. Patents concerning the use of such labels

include US. Pat. Nos. 3,817,837; 3,850,752; 3,939,350; 3,996,345; 437; 4,275,149

and 4,366,241, each incorporated herein by reference. Of course, one may ﬁnd additional

advantages through the use of a secondary binding ligand such as a second antibody arid/or

a biotin/avidin ligand binding arrangement, as is known in the art.
 
         The anti—ligand antibody employed in the detection may itself be linked to a

detectable label, wherein one would then simply detect this label, thereby allowing the

amount  of the primary  immune  complexes  in the  ition to  be  determined.
 
 Alternatively, the ﬁrst antibody that becomes bound within the primary immune complexes

may be ed by means of a second binding agent that has g afﬁnity for the

antibody. In these cases, the second binding agerét may be linked to a able label. The

second binding agent is itself often an antibody, which may thus be termed a "secondary"

antibody, or a polymer detection system. The y immune complexes are ted

with the labeled, secondary binding agent, or antibody/polymer detection system, under

effective conditions and for a period of time sufﬁcient to allow the formation of secondary

immune complexes.  The secondary immune complexes are then lly washed to

remove any eciﬁcally bound labeled secondary antibodies or ligands, and the

remaining label in the secondary immune complexes is then detected.

[0111:        Further methods include the detection of primary immune complexes by a two-step

approach. A second binding agent, such as an antibody, that has binding afﬁnity for the

dy is used to form ary immune complexes, as described above. After washing,

the secondary immune complexes are contacted with a third g agent or antibody that

has binding afﬁnity for the second antibody, again under effective conditions and for a

.27~

period of time sufﬁcient to ailow the formation of immune complexes {tertiary immune.

compiexes). The third ligand or antibody is iinked to a detectabie iabei, allowing detection

of the tertiary immune complexes thus .  This system may provide for signal.

arripiitication if this is desired.

it}: E2}          In another embodiment, a biotinylated monoclonal or polyclonal antibody is used to

detect the target n(s), and a second step antibody is then used to detect the biotin

attached to the complexed biotin. In that method the sample to be tested is ﬁrst incubated in

a solution comprising the ﬁrst step antibody. If the target antigen is present, some of the

antibody  binds to the antigen to  form a ylated antibody/antigen complex.  The

antibody/antigen complex  is then  ampliﬁed  by  incubation in  successive  solutions  of

streptavidin (or avidin), ylated DNA, and/or complementary biotinylated DNA, with

each step adding onal biotin sites to the antibody/antigen complex. The ampliﬁcation

steps are repeated until a suitable level of ampliﬁcation is achieved, at which point the

sample is incubated in a solution comprising the second step dy against biotin. This

second step antibody is labeled, as for example wéth an enzyme that can be used to detect

the presence of the antibody/antigen complex by histoenzymology using a chromogen

substrate. With suitable ampliﬁcation, a protein binding (e.g., antibody) conjugate can be

produced that is macroscopically visible.
 
         Another known method of immunodetection takes advantage of the immuno-PCR

(Polymerase   Chain   Reaction)   methodology.   The   PCR   method   uses   a

otin/streptavidin/antibody complex that is washed out with a low pH or high salt

buffer that releases the antibody. The ing wash solution is then used to carry out a

PCR reaction with suitable primers with appropriate controls. In speciﬁc embodiments, the

enormous ampliﬁcation capability and speciﬁcity of PCR can be utilized to detect a single

antigen molecule. Such detection may take place in ime. For example, the use of

tative real-time PCR is contemplated.

{(3114}          In the clinical diagnosis and/or monitoring of patients with s forms of disease,

the  detection  of a FOLRI  mutant,  and/or  an  tion  in the  levels  of FOLRl,  in

comparison to the levels in a corresponding biological sample from a normal subject is

indicative of a patient with the disease. However, as is known to those of skill in the art,

such a clinical diagnosis would not necessarily be made on the basis of this method in

ion. Those of skill in the art are very familiar with entiating between signiﬁcant

differences in types and/or amounts of biomarkers, which represent a positive identiﬁcation,

and/or low level and/or background s of biomarkers. , background expression

levels are often used to form a "cut-off" above which increased detection will be scored as

signiﬁcant and/or positive.

39115;        In  one  embodiment,  immunological  detection  (by  immunohistochemistry)  of

FOLRI is scored for both intensity and uniformity (percent of stained cells — membrane

only).  ative scales for FOLRl sion for intensity correlate as 0 — Negative, 0-

1                                                                                    — Moderate to Strong,                                              — Moderate, 2-3

- Weak to Moderate, 2

- Very Weak, 1 — Weak, 1-2

3 — Strong.  Quantitatively, Score 0 represents that no membrane staining is observed in

tumor cells. A Score 1 represents a faint/barely perceptible membrane staining in tumor

cells.  For Score 2, a moderate membrane staining is observed in tumor cells.  Lastly, Score

3  or 3+ represents a te to strong membrane staining in the tumor cells.   Those

samples  with  0  or  1  score  for  FOLRI  expression  may  be  terized  as  not

overexpressing FOLRl, whereas those samples with 2 or E scores may be characterized as

overexpressing  FOLRI.    s  overexpressing  FOLRl  may  also  be  rated  by

histochemical scores corresponding to the number of copies of FOLRI molecules

sed per cell, and have been determined biochemically:  0=0-10,000 copies/cell, l=at

least about 200,000 copies/cell, 2=at least about 500,000 copies/cell, and 3=at least about

2,000,000 copies/cell.  Comparative scales for FOLRl percent cell membrane staining

uniformity correlate as follows: 0 — Negative, Focal                                 - 25-

- <25%, heterogeneous (hetero)

75%, and homogeneous (homo) - >75%.
 
 VI.    Nucleic Acid Hybridization

        In situ hybridization is generally carréed out on cells or tissue sections ﬁxed to

slides. In situ hybridization may be performed by several conventional methodologies (See

for e.g.  Leitch et al.  In  situ Hybridization:  a practical  guide, Oxford BIOS  Scientiﬁc

Publishers, Microscopy handbooks v. 27 (1994)). In one in situ procedure, ﬂuorescent dyes

(such as ﬂuorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) that ﬂuoresces green when excited by an Argon

ion laser) are used to label a nucleic acid sequence probe that is complementary to a target

nucleotide ce in the cell. Each cell comprising the target nucleotide sequence will

bind the d probe, producing a cent signal upon exposure of the cells to a tight

source of a wavelength appropriate for excitation of the speciﬁc ﬂuorochrome used.
 
         Various degrees of hybridization ency can be employed. As the hybridization

conditions become more stringent, a greater degree of complementarity is required between

-29..

the probe and target to form and maintain a stable duplex. Stringency is sed by raising

temperature,  lowering  salt concentration,  or raising  formamide  tration.  Adding

dextran sulfate or raising its concentration may also increase the effective concentration of

labeled probe to increase the rate of hybridization and ultimate signal ity. After

hybridization, slides are washed in a solution generally comprising reagents similar to those

found in  the  hybridization  on with washing time varying from minutes to  hours

depending on required stringency.  Longer or more stringent washes typically lower

nonspeciﬁc background but run the risk of decreasing overall sensitivity.

{aria}        Probes  used  in  nucleic  ization  analysis may  be  either RNA or DNA

oligonucleotides  or  polynucleotides  and  may  contain  not  only  naturally-occurring

nucleotides  but  their  analogs,  like  digoxygenin  dCTP,  biotin  dcTP  7—azaguanosine,

hymidine, inosine, or uridine, for example. Other useful probes include peptide probes

and ues thereof, branched gene DNA, peptidometics, peptide nucleic acid (PNA)

and/or dies, for example.

{911§§        Probes should have sufﬁcient complementarity to the target c acid sequence of

interest so that stable and speciﬁc binding occurs between the target nucleic acid sequence

and the probe. The degree of homology required for stable hybridization varies with the

stringency of the ization medium and/or wash medium.  Preferably,  tely

homologous probes are employed in the present invention, but persons of skill in the art will

readily appreciate that probes exhibiting lesser but sufﬁcient homology can be used in the

present invention (see for e.g. Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F., Maniatis, T., Molecular Cloning

A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, (1989)).

{@129}        Probes may also be ted and chosen by several means including, but not

limited to, mapping by in situ hybridization, somatic cell hybrid panels, or spot blots of

sorted chromosomes; chromosomal linkage analysis; or cloned and isolated from sorted

chromosome ies from human cell lines or somatic cell hybrids with human

chromosomes, radiation somatic cell hybrids, microdissection of a chromosome region, or

from yeast artiﬁcial chromosomes (YACs) identiﬁed by PCR primers speciﬁc for a unique

chromosome locus or other suitable means like an adjacent YAC clone. Probes may be

genomic DNA, cDNA, or RNA cloned in a plasmid, phage, cosmid, YAC, Bacterial

Artiﬁcial Chromosomes , viral vector, or any other suitable vector. Probes may be

cloned or synthesized chemically by conventional methods. When cloned, the ed probe

nucleic acid fragments are typically ed into a vector, such as lambda phage, pBR322,

M13, or vectors containing the SP6 or T7 promoter and cloned as a library in a ial

host.  [See  for  e.g.  Sambrook,  J.,  Fritsch,  E.  F.,  Maniatis,  T.,  Molecular  Cloning A

Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, (1989)].

{$122}        Probes are preferably labeled, such as with a ﬂuorophor, for example. Examples of

ﬂuorophores include, but are not limited to, rare earth chelates (europium es), Texas

Red,   rhodamine,   ﬂuorescein,   dansyl,   Lissamine,   umbelliferone,   phycocrytherin,

yanin, or commercially available ﬂuorophors such SPECTRUM ORANGETM and

SPECTRUM M and/or derivatives of any one or more of the above. Multiple

probes used in the assay may be labeled with more than one guishable ﬂuorescent or

pigment color.  These  color  differences  provide  a means to  identify  the  hybridization

positions of speciﬁc probes. Moreover, probes that are not separated spatially can be

identiﬁed by a different color light or pigment resulting from mixing two other colors (e.g.,

light red+green=yellow) pigment (e.g., blue+yellow=green) or by using a ﬁlter set that

passes only one color at a time.
 
         Probes  can  be  labeled  directly  or  indirectly  with  the  hor,  utilizing

conventional methodology known to one with skill in the art.
 
 VII.    Detection Kits and Compositions

        Also provided by the invention are kits for use in the practice of the present

invention as sed herein. Such kits may comprise ners, each with one or more of

the various reagents (typically in concentrated form) utilized in the methods, including, for

example,  one or more binding agents  (antibodies),  already attached to a marker or

optionally with reagents for coupling  a binding agent to an antibody  or nucleic acid

molecule (as well as the marker itself); buffers, the appropriate nucleotide triphosphates

(e.g. dATP, dCTP, dGTP, dTTP, dUTP, ATP, CTP, GTP and UTP), reverse riptase,

DNA polymerase, RNA polymerase, and one or more sequence-specific or rate

prémers for use in detection of nucleic acid molecules by ampliﬁcation; and/or reagents and

instrumentation for the isolation (optionally by microdissection) to support the ce of

the invention. A label or indicator bing,  or a set of instructions for use of, kit

components in a ligand detection method of the present invention, will also be typically

included,  Where the  ctions may be  associated with a package  insert  and/or the

packaging of the kit or the components thereof.

-31...
 
         In still r embodiments, the present invention concerns immunodetection kits

for use with the immunodetection methods described above. As the antibodies are generally

used to detect wild—type and/or mutant proteins, polypeptides and/or peptides, the antibodies

will preferably be included in the kit. The immunodetection kits will thus comprise, in

le container means, a ﬁrst antibody that binds to a wild-type and/or mutant protein,

polypeptide and/or e, and/or optionally, an immunodetection reagent and/or further

optionally, a ype and/or mutant protein, polypeptide and/or peptide.
 
         The immunodetection ts of the kit may take any one of a variety of forms,

including those  detectable labels that are  associated with and/or linked to the given

antibody. Detectable labels that are associated with and/or ed to a secondary binding

ligand are also contemplated. Exemplary secondary ligands are those secondary antibodies

or polymers that have binding afﬁnity for the ﬁrst antibody.
 
         Further suitable immunodetection reagents for use in the present kits include the

two—component reagent that comprises a secondary antibody that has binding afﬁnity for the

ﬁrst antibody, along with a third antibody or polymer that has binding afﬁnity for the

second antibody, the third antibody being linked to a detectable label. As noted above, a

number of exemplary labels are known in the art and/0r all such labels may be suitably

employed in connection wéth the present invention.
 
         The kits may r comprise a suitably aliquoted composition of the wild-type

and/or mutant protein, polypeptide and/or polypeptide, Whether labeled and/or led, as

a                                                       contain                                                                                        may be used to prepare    standard curve for a detection assay. The kits may

antibody- or r-label conjugates either in fully conjugated form, in the form of

intermediates, and/or as separate moieties to be ated by the user of the kit. The

components of the kits may be packaged either in aqueous media and/or in lyophilized

form.

{0123]        The container means of the kits will generally include at least one vial, test tube,

ﬂask, bottle, syringe and/or other container means, into which the antibody may be placed,

and/0r ably, suitably aliquoted. The kits of the present invention will also lly

include a means for ning the antibody, antigen, and/or any other reagent containers in

close conﬁnement for commercial sale. Such containers may e injection and/or blow-

molded plastic containers into which the desired Vials are retained.

gnzw      The kits may further comprise one or more therapeutic agents for the treatment of

cancer, such as a FOLRl immunoconjugate and/or a chemotherapeutic agent.

-32..

terse;        The kit may further comprise an a FOLRl detection reagent used to measure FOLRl

expression in a subject comprésing a FOLRl detection reagent, and instructions for use.  In

one ment, the FOLRl ion reagent comprises a FOLR] g peptide, protein

or a molecular probe (i.e. nucleic acid).  In another embodiment, the FOLRl  detection

reagent is an anti-FOLRl dy.  In another embodiment, the kit further comprises a

secondary antibody which binds the anti-FOLRI antibody. In one embodiment the FOLRl-

speciﬁc antibody is included at a concentration of 0.5 to 7.5 ug/ml, preferably 0.9 to 3.8 +/—

0.5 ug/ml. In another ment, the antibody is included at a concentration of 1.0 +/- 0.5

ug/ml, 1.5 +/— 0.5 ug/ml, 1.9 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 2.5 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 3.0 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 3.5 +/— 0.5

ug/ml, 3.8 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, or up to 4.2 ug/nil.  In another embodiment, the dy is

included  in  trated  solution  with  instructions  for  dilutions  to  achieve  a  ﬁnal

concentration of 0.9 to 3.8 +/- 0.5 ug/ml.  In another embodiment, the kit further comprises

a detection reagent selected from the group consisting of: an enzyme, a ﬂuorophore, a

radioactive label, and a luminophore.  In another embodiment, the detection reagent is

selected  from  the  group  consisting  of:  biotin,  digoxigenin,  ﬂuorescein,  tritium,  and

rhodamine.

{$131}        The kit can also include instructions for detection and g of FOLRl expression.
 
 The kit can also include control or reference samples.  Non-limiting examples of control or

reference samples include cell pellets or tissue culture cell lines derived from normal

(normal control) or tumor (positive control) samples.  ary cell lines include KB,

NCI-H2llO, Igrov-l, Ishikawa,   Jeg-3, Skov-3, Hela, T47D, Caco2, SW620, OAW28,

HCC827, Ovcar—8, and Ovcar-3, OV—90, other tumor cell lines known to express FOLRI,

and cell  lines  stably  or transiently transfected with an expression vector that expresses

FOLRl. Additional examples for positive control tissues can also be found in Examples 9-

11.  The kit can also comprise a staining guide which Visually depicts positive and normal

nce samples for staining ity and mity.   Such ng guides can have

reference samples from normal lung, pancreas, and/or salivary gland, and stained tumors

with standardized scores (e.g., ovarian, lung, renal, and endometrial s, as well as

those described in the Examples and in Figures 23—25)

VIII,   FOLiﬁlubinding agents

        Any antibodies that bind FOLRI can be used in the detection methods of the t

invention. Examples oftherapeuticaily effective anti—FOLRI antibodies can be tbund in US

Appl. Pub. No. US 2012/0009181 which is herein incorporated by reference. The fulllength

amino acid (aa) and nucleotide (nt) sequences for FOLR1 are known in the art

and also provided herein as represented by SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2, respectively.  A

specifically useful antibody for ion of FOLR1 is the mouse monoclonal FOLR1

clone BN3.2 (Leica # NCL-L-FRalpha). An example of a therapeutically

effective anti-FOLR1 antibody is huMov19 (M9346A).  The polypeptides of SEQ ID

NOs: 3-5 comprise the variable domain of the heavy chain of huMov19 (M9346A), and

the variable domain light chain version 1.00, the variable domain light chain version

1.60 of huMov19, respectively. The huMov19 A) antibody comprises: (a) a

heavy chain CDR1 comprising GYFMN (SEQ ID NO:6); a heavy chain CDR2

comprising RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ ID NO:7); and a heavy chain CDR3

comprising YDGSRAMDY (SEQ ID NO:8); and (b) a light chain CDR1 comprising

KASQSVSFAGTSLMH (SEQ ID NO:9); a light chain CDR2 comprising RASNLEA

(SEQ ID NO:10); and a light chain CDR3 comprising QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID NO:11).
 
 In n ments, the huMov19 A) antibody is encoded by the plasmids

deposited with the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), located at 10801

University Boulevard, Manassas, VA 20110 on April 7, 2010 under the terms of the

st Treaty and having ATCC deposit nos. PTA-10772 and PTA-10773 or 10774.
 
 Examples of FOLR1 immunoconjugates useful in the eutic methods of the

invention are provided below.
 
 IX.     FOLR1 Immunoconjugates

        The present invention also includes s for increasing the efficacy of

conjugates (also referred to herein as immunoconjugates), comprising the anti-FOLR1

antibodies, antibody fragments, functional lents, improved antibodies and their

aspects as disclosed herein, linked or conjugated to a cytotoxin (drug) or prodrug.
 
 Exemplary FOLR1 immunoconjugates can be found in US Appl. Pub. No. US

2012/0009181, which is herein orated by reference.  A particularly effective

therapeutic  immunoconjugate  of  the  invention  comprises  the  huMov19  antibody

described above.
 
         Suitable drugs or prodrugs are known in the art. In certain embodiments, drugs

or prodrugs are cytotoxic agents. The cytotoxic agent used in the cytotoxic conjugate of

the present invention can be any compound that results in the death of a cell, or induces

cell death, or in some manner decreases cell viability, and es, for example,



maytansinoids and maytansinoid analogs, benzodiazepines, taxoids, 5 and CC-

1065  analogs,  duocarmycins  and  duocarmycin  analogs,  enediynes,  such  as

calicheamicins, dolastatin and dolastatin analogs including auristatins, tomaymycin

derivatives, leptomycin derivatives, methotrexate, tin, carboplatin, daunorubicin,

doxorubicin, vincristine, vinblastine,

[TEXT CONTINUES ON PAGE 35]

- 34a -

ian,  mitoh’tyciri  C,  chiorambucii  and  morphoiirio  doxombicin,    In  certain

embodiments, the cytotoxic agents are maytansinoids and maytansirioids analogs,

{0135}        The drug or prodrug cart, for exampie, be limited to the anti—FOLK antibody, such

as  oviéi,  or  fragment  thereof through  a  disulﬁde  bond.   The iinirer le  or

crosslinking agent comprises a reactive al group that can react with the airtix-FOLRl

antibody or tragn‘tent thereof,   in certain embodiments, reactive chemicai groups for

reaction with the cell—binding agent are ,NLSticciitimidyi esters and. Neuifosuccinimidyi

esters.   Additionaliy the linker molecule comprises a ve chemical group, in certain

embodiments a ditiiiopyridyl group that can react with the drug to form a disuitide bond. in

certain  embodiments,  ticker  molecules  inciude,  for  example,  Al’nsuccinimidyi  3«{2~

idithio} propionate (SPDP) (see, cg, Cartsson et ai‘, Biochem. J, {173: 723337

(1978))g A’T—SUCCiHitnidyi 4-«(2:pyridyidithiokutaiioate (SPDB) (see, eg US: Patent No.

4,563,304):  i\7l~3ttccininiidyi  4*(2*pyridyidithioiflm-suifobutanoate  (sulfo-SPDB)  (see US

Publication No. 20090274713) , N—succinimidyl yridyldithio) pentanoate (SPP) (see,

e.g., CAS Registry number 341498-08—6), 2-iminothiolane, or acetylsuccinic anhydride.
 
         Antibody-maytansinoid conjugates with non-cleavable links can also be prepared.
 
 Such crosslinkers are described in the art (see ThermoScientiﬁc Pierce inking

Technical  Handbook and US  Patent Application Publication No.  169933)  and

include    but    are    not    limited    to,       N—succinimidyl    4-(maleimidomethyl)

exanecarboxylate (SMCC), N—succinimidyl—4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane—l-

carboxy—(6-amidocaproate), which is a “long chain” analog of SMCC (LC—SMCC), K-

maleimidoundecanoic acid N—succinimidyl ester (KMUA), B-maleimidopropanoic acid N-

succinimidyl ester (BMPS), y—maleimidobutyric acid N-succinimidyl ester (GMBS), 8-

maleimidocaproic  acid  N—hydroxysuccinimide  ester  (EMCS),  m-maleimidobenzoyl—N-

hydroxysuccinimide  ester (MBS), N-(oc-maleimidoacetoxy)-succinimide ester (AMAS),

succinimidyl-6—(B-maleimidopropionamido)hexanoate   (SMPH),   N-succinimidyl   4—(p-

idophenyl)~butyrate  ,  and N—(p-maleimidophenyl)isocyanate  (PMPI),  N-

succinimidyl(iodoacetyl)—aminobenzoate (SIAB), N-succinimidyl iodoacetate (SEA), N—

succinimidyl  bromoacetate  (SBA),  and  N-succinimidyl  3-(bromoacetamido)propionate

(SBAP). In certain embodiments, the antibody is d with crosslinking reagents such

as succinimidyl 4—(N-maleimidomethyl)—cyclohexane—l-carboxylate (SMCC), sulfo—SMCC,

maleimidobenzoyl-N—hydroxysuccinimide  ester  (MBS),  sulfo—MBS  or  succinimidyl-

iodoacetate, as bed in the literature, to introduce l-lO reactive groups (Yoshitake et a1,

Eur. J. Biochem, 101:395-399 (1979); Hashida et al, J. Applied Biochem., 56—63 (1984);

and Liu et at, Biochem, 182690-697 (1979)).
 
         The t invention includes aspects wherein about 2 to about 8 drug molecules

("drug load"), for example, maytansinoid, are linked to an anti-FOLRl antibody or fragment

f, the umor effect of the conjugate is much more efﬁcacious as compared to a

drug load of a lesser or higher number of drugs linked to the same cell binding agent.
 
 "Drug load", as used herein, refers to the number of drug molecules (e.g., a maytansinoid)

that can be attached to a cell binding agent (e.g., an anti-FOLRl antibody or fragment

thereof).  In one aspect the number of drug molecules that can be attached to a cell binding

agent can average from about 2 to about 8 (e.g., 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8,

2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9,

.0, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, 6.9, 7.0,

7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 8.0, 8.1).  In certain embodiments, the drug is  N21

deacetyl—NT-(3—mercapto-l-oxopropyl)—maytansine (DMl) or N27—deacetyl—N2’-(4-mercapto-

4-methyl-l-oxopentyl) maytansine (DM4). Thus, in a certain embodiment, the antibody

huMovl9 is conjugated to DMI or DM4.  In another embodiment, the antibody FR—l-21 is

conjugated to DMl or DM4. In another embodiment, the antibody FR-l-48 is conjugated to

DMl or DM4. In another embodiment, the dy FR—1-49 is conjugated to DMl or

DM4. In another embodiment, the antibody FR—l—57 is conjugated to DMl or DM4. In

r embodiment, the antibody FR—l-65 is conjugated to DMl or DM4.
 
 X.     Correlation of FOLRl expression and eutic efﬁcacy  ’

        In certain embodiments, the invention es a method for identifying subjects

with an increased likelihood for responding to FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer therapies.  The

invention is based,  in part,  on the discovery that elevated FOLRl  expression levels

correlates with efficacy of FOLR-l -targeting anti-cancer therapeutics.
 
         Evaluation of patient samples and correlation to in vivo efficacy using xenograft

models trates the power of the expression is for selecting subjects more likely

to respond to treatment.  IHC provides a score for FOLRl expression on tumor cells: 0 (no

expression) to 3+ (very high levels of expression).  In vivo data using xenograft models

demonstrates that s scoring 1, 2, 3, or 3+ for FOLRl sion, preferably a score

of 2, 3, or 3+, have an increased likelihood to respond to -targeted anti-cancer

therapies at clinically-relevant doses of FOLRl conjugates (e.g., 5 mg/kg xenograft

-36~

dose of a FOLRI immunoconjugate can approximate a 185 mg/m2 in patients).  Thus,

ﬁcation of individuals having an elevated FOLRl score would help identify those

individuals who might respond to a clinically relevant dosage. As described in more detail

below, sensitivity to FOLRI therapeutics correlated with FOLRl scoring of 2 or higher,

especially with level 3 scoring.  Moreover, expression of more uniform levels of FOLRl

provides  better  correlation  with  therapeutic  beneﬁt.   Thus,  a neous  staining

uniformity is preferred but combinations of increased staining intensity with heterogeneous

staining uniformity are also indicative of increased FOLRl expression. For example, scores

of greater than 2 hetero is a patient selection criterion for treatment with a FOLRl

therapeutic agent.

{(31%}        FOLRl expression analysis also ﬁes patients in whom decreased levels of a

FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer therapy ("low dose therapy") can be effective to cause anti-

tumor responses.  As is appreciated in the art, compounds are generally administered at the

smallest  dosage  that  achieves  the  d  therapeutic  response.   This  is  speciﬁcally

important for therapeutics that cause al, and often undesired, side effects.  The ability

to recognize those ts with elevated FOLRl sion levels allows for minimization

of the dosage of the FOLR-l—targeting therapeutic, thus decreasing possible side effects,

while maintaining eutic efﬁcacy.
 
 {M41}       As shown herein, FOLRl expression scores of 2 hetero or greater correlate with

increased responsiveness to OLRI immunoconjugates.  In certain embodiments, the

increased responsiveness is cachexia, increase in survival time, elongation in time to tumor

progression, reduction in tumor mass, reduction in tumor burden and/or a prolongation in

time to tumor asis, time to tumor recurrerice, tumor se, complete response,

partial response, stable e, progressive disease, progression free survival (PFS), or

overall survival (OS).  In certain embodiments, FOLRl expression scores of 2 hetero or

greater correlate with increasing PFS, DFS, or OS.
 
         Kits for use in the detection methods and correlation to reference/control samples

can comprise control (positive and/or negative) or reference samples.  The positive control

or ve reference samples can be derived from tissue culture cell lines, normal tissue

tumor tissue.   Positive and  negative  reference  samples can be  derived from  cell  lines

including SW620, T47D, l, HeLa, KB, EEG-3, other tumor cell lines, and cell lines

stably or transiently transfected with an sion vector that encodes FOLRl. Normal or

turner tissue samples and tissue culture eeii Eines can also be used as a negative central

reference samples. Fer additienai sampies, see Examples 9—} I and Figures 22.3»25.
 
 XI.    Pharmaceutical compositions and therapeutic methods

{@143}        FOLRl-binding agents (including antibodies, immunoconjugates, and polypeptides)

are useful in a variety of applications including, but not limited to, therapeutic treatment

methods, such as the treatment of cancer. In certain embodiments, the agents are useful for

inhibiting tumor growth, inducing differentiation, ng tumor volume, and/or ng

the tumorigenicity of a tumor.   The methods of use may be in vilro, ex vivo, or in viva

methods.    In  certain  embodiments,  the  FOLRl-binding  agent  or  dy  or

conjugate, or polypeptide is an nist of the human FOLRI to which it binds.

{$144}        In certain embodiments, the disease treated with the FOLRl—binding agent or

antagonist  (e.g.,  a huMovl9  dy  or  immunoconjugate)  is  a  cancer.   In  certain

embodiments, the cancer is characterized by tumors expressing folate or 1 to which

the FOLRl-binding agent (e.g., antibody) binds.
 
         The  present  invention  provides  for  methods  of  treating  cancer  comprising

administering a therapeuticaliy effective amount of a FOLRLbinding agent to a subject

(e.g.,  a  subject in need of treatment).   In certain embodiments, the  cancer is a cancer

selected from the group consisting of colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, lung cancer,

ovarian cancer, liver , breast cancer, brain cancer, kidney cancer, prostate cancer,

gastrointestinal , melanoma, cervical cancer, bladder cancer, astoma, and head

and neck cancer.  In certain embodiments, the cancer is ovarian cancer.   In certain

embodiments, the cancer is lung cancer.  In certain embodiments, the subject is a human.
 
         The present invention further es methods for inhibiting tumor growth using

the antibodies or other agents described herein.  In certain embodiments, the method of

ting the tumor growth comprises contacting the cell with a FOLRl-binding agent

(e.g., antibody) in Vitro.  For example, an immortalized cell line or a cancer cell line that

expresses FOLRI is cultured in medium to which is added the dy or other agent to

inhibit tumor growth.  In some embodiments, tumor cells are isolated from a patient sample

such as, for example, a tissue biopsy, pleural effusion, or blood sample and cultured in

medium to which is added an FOLRl -binding agent to t tumor .
 
         In some embodiments, the method of inhibiting tumor growth comprises contacting

the tumor or tumor cells with the FOLRl-binding agent (e.g., antibody) in Vivo.  In certain



embodiments, contacting a tumor or tumor cell with a FOLRl-binding agent is undertaken

in an animal model. For e, FOLRl-binding agents can be administered to xenografts

expressing one or more FOLRls that have been grown in immunocompromised mice (e.g.
 
 ID mice) to inhibit tumor growth.  In some embodiments, the FOLRE—binding

agent is administered at the same time or shortly after introduction of tumorigenic cells into

the animal to prevent tumor growth.  In some embodiments, the FOLRl-binding agent is

administered as a therapeutic after the tumorigenic cells have grown to a speciﬁed size.

{$148}        In  certain  embodiments,  the  method  of  inhibiting  tumor  growth  compréses

administering to a subject an therapeutically ive amount of a binding agent.
 
 In certain embodiments, the subject is a human.  In certain ments, the subject has a

tumor or has had a tumor removed.
 
         In certain embodiments, the tumor is a tumor selected from the group consisting of

brain tumor, colorectal tumor, pancreatic tumor, lung tumor, ovarian tumor, liver tumor,

breast tumor, kidney tumor, prostate tumor, gastrointestinal tumor, melanoma, cervical

tumor, bladder tumor, glioblastoma, and head and neck tumor.  In certain embodiments, the

tumor is an n tumor.

{915%}        In certain embodiments, the invention provides methods of inhibiting tumor growth

using low doses of a FOLRl-binding agent.  The term "low dose" as used herein refers to

the therapeutically effective dose of a binding agent which is less than the usual or

the conventional dose required to produce the therapeutic effect.
 
         Thus, in certain embodiments the inventions provides methods of ng cancer

using 9 antibody and immunoconjugates.  In certain embodiments, the huMovl9

immunoconjugate is huMovl9-SPDB-DM4; huMovl9-sulfo-SPP-DM1; huMovl9—SPF-

DMI;  or  9-PEG4-Mal-DM4.   In  a  certain  embodiment,  the  huMovl9

immunconjuage is 9-SPDB-DM4, which is also referred to as IMGN853.

{$152}        In certain embodiments, formulations are prepared for storage and use by combining

a puriﬁed antibody or agent of the present invention with a pharrnaceutically acceptable

vehicle (e.g. carrier, excipient) (Remington, The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 20th

Edition Mack Publishing, 2000).  Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable es include, but:

are not limited to, nontoxic buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other organic acids; salts

such as sodium chloride; antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine; preservatives

(e.g.    octadecyldimethylbenzyl    ammonium    chloride;    hexamethonium    chioride;

benzalkonium chloride; benzethonium de; , butyl or benzyl alcohol; alkyl

parahens, such as methyl or propyl n; cateehol; resorcinol; cyclohexanol; 3~pentanoh

and ItiaCI‘t‘ﬁSQl/i;  low molecular weight ptides  (cg.  less than about  it} amino  acid

residues);  proteins  such  as  serum  albumin,  gelatin,  or  oglohulins;  hydrophilie

polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino acids such as glycine, glutamine, gine,

histidine,  arginine,  or  lysine;  carbohydrates  such  as  monosaccharides,  disaccharides,

glucose, niarniose, or destrins; chelating agents such as Eli)’l‘A; sugars such as sucrose,

mannitol, trehalose or sorbitol; saltmt‘onning counter—ions such as sodium; metal complexes

(cg. Lin—protein complexes); and non~ionic surfactants such as EElEN or polyethylene

glycol (PEG).

{eras}        The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention, can be administered in

Administration can be topical

any number ot‘ ways for either local or systen'iic treatment.

{such as to mucous membranes including vaginal and rectal delivery) such as transdermal

patches, ointntents, lotions, creams, gels, drops, suppositories, , liquids and powders;

pulmonary (cg, by inhalation or insufflation of powders or aerosols, including by

zer; racheal, intranasal, epidermal and transdennal); oral; or parenteral including

intravenous,  rterial,  subcutaneous,  intraperitoneal  or  intramuscular  injection  or

infusion; or intracranial leg, intrathecai or intraventricnlar) stration.

{@154}        An  antibody  or  iimnunoconiugate  of the  invention  can  be  combined  in  a

pharmaceutical combination formulation, or dosing regimen as combination therapy, with a

second  compound  having  anti—cancer  properties.  The  second  compound  of  the

pharmaceutical combination ation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary

activities to the ADC of the combination such that they do not adversely affect each other.
 
 Pharmaceutical itions comprising the FOLRl-hinding a;\4 ant and the second anti»

cancer agent are also provided.
 
 U} U!           For the treatment of the disease, the appropriate dosage of an dy or agent of

the present invention depends on the type of disease to he treated, the severity and course of

the disease, the responsiveness of the disease, whether the antibody or agent is administered

for therapeutic or preventative purposes, previous therapy, patient’s clinical history, and so

on all at the tion of the treating physician.  ”l‘he antibody or agent can he administered

one time or over a series oftreatinents lasting from l days to l months, or until a

cure is effected or a diminution of the disease state is achieved {eg reduction in turner

sire).     Optimal  dosing  schedules  can  he  calculated  from  measurements  of  drug

accumulation in the hotly of the patient and will vary depending on the relative potency of

-49“

an individual antibody or agent. The administering physician can easily determine optimum

dosages, dosing methodologies and repetition rates. In certain embodiments, dosage is from

0.0] ug to 100 mg per kg of body weight, and can be given once or more daily, weekly,

monthly or yearly.  In certain embodiments, the antibody or other FOLRl-binding agent is

given once every two weeks or once every three weeks. In certain embodiments, the dosage

of the antibody or other FOLRl-binding agent is from about 0.1 mg to about 20 mg per kg

of body weight.  The treating physician can estimate repetition rates for dosing based on

measured residence times and concentrations of the drug in bodily ﬂuids or tissues.

{eissi        The combination therapy can provide "synergy" and prove gistic", i.e. the

effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the

s  that results from  using the compounds  tely. A  synergistic  effect can be

attained when the active ingredients are: (l) co-formulated and administered or delivered

simultaneously in a combined, unit dosage formulation; (2) delivered by ation or in

el  as  separate  formulations;  or  (3)  by  some  other regimen. When  delivered  in

alternation  therapy,  a  synergistic  effect  can  be  attained  when  the  compounds  are

administered or delivered sequentially, e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In

general,  during  alternation  therapy,  an  effective  dosage  of each  active  ient  is

administered tially, i.e. ly, whereas in combination therapy, effective s of

two or more active ingredients are administered together.

{3157}        ments of the present disclosure can be further defined by reference to the

following non-limiting examples, which describe in detail preparation of certain antibodies

of the present disclosure and methods for using antibodies of the present disclosure.  It will

be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications, both to materials and

methods, can be practiced without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
 
 EXAMPLES

        It  is understood that the  examples  and  embodiments  described herein are  for

illustrative puposes only and that s cations or changes in light thereof will be

suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of

this ation.
 
         The Folate Receptor-l (FOLRl) has been ed to be highly expressed in ovarian

tumors and expressed at high to moderate levels in brain, breast, bladder, endometrioid,

-41,

lung, pancreatic, and renal carcinomas.  However, the expression of FOLK} is limited in

normal s and includes kidney, lung, choroid plexus, pancreas, breast, thyroid? ovary,

prostate, and lung.

{316%}         Methods  have  been  reported  that  quantify FOLRl  using  fresh  frozen  tissue

nates.  Whole ”tissue homogenates cannot distinguish cytoplasmic from membraneassoeiated

sion and freshly frozen samples are not amenable in the clinical setting.
 
 However, in ﬁxed parafﬁn embedded {FFPE} samples can be archived for ts in

the clinic.
 
 Exempie i

{($161}          nolzistoehemieal  staining  of FQLRl  in  cell,  samples  -  manual  methods

Fornialin fixed parafﬁn embedded eeli pellets and tissues were used as test samples with the

following staining reagents and eoni‘litions.

lHC Antibodies                          FFPE assay conditions

l‘ """                                        W} MMWW...“

l..16?,_ Amihie—M...“_   l"SEB§H_NNMM““     COHdlthI’lﬁ' ' mmmm“

e mouse monoclonal anti-hiiFOLRl            Antigen Retrieval    Borg (Biocaré) PH

clone BN32 (Leiea # Ni; E.-L-

lRalpha)

Avidin/Biotin;

:       Blocking Steps

iimmnnoﬂen: Piokai‘yotie inant        mwwipergggie

protein corresponding :0 189 amino             Test or l       2.0 ug/mL

aeia‘ls ofthe external domain ofthe folate       Article

We“ 1014111ij   ipﬂuem      pg‘g‘gmammo2%‘

lCOﬂlI‘G} A i                                                       i‘horseserurnﬁ

{giggles} (miner: Clone we eeozsii     Secondary Antib9dy l 10 ng/rnL

‘ﬁeeondaryAnilmd‘i’                       ‘Detection System*  i AVidin-Biotin-     i

ieBiotinVlated horse anti-mouse (Veetor,                              peroxidase-         l

ione ijis1&le>         Complex; ABC

(Vector Labs)

i                           i DAB(DakoL

> 5 min            E

39162}        E‘onnaiin—ﬁxed  n-embedded  (FFPE)  patient.  ovarian  tumor  biopsies  and

ovarian xenogral’i tumors were stained with the murine QLRi antibody elone BNEQ,

(Leica Cat 4N(.ll-lRalplia) and a conmi nulls“(3‘1 fioni Conner.  Following antigen



retrieval in pH 9.5 buffer, slides were blocked with 2% horse serum plus . Slides were

washed in PBS, and incubated at reein temperature fer {if} s with the attti~FOlRl er

l mitigGl tiy, followed by 30 minutes with nylated anti—meme lgsfi and 4G

minntee  with  avidinbiotinperoxidase  eemplex  to  detect  bound  ary  antibeiyi

incubation for 5 minutes with DAB (33 {lldlnxﬁﬁbtjl’lv’lflllle tetralmtreehlerid.) resultedin

the color signal. Slides were eeenterstained with hematexyiin

        ili‘OLRi staining intensity and distrihution patterns were seated relative to central

lgG staining {_nenepeeiﬁe). Intensity was sceie01 en a scale of O 1103 (O-==no staining, 1 :

weak, 2 = moderate and 3   strong) and distribution was scored as focal (<25% ei’ cells

stained),  heterogeneous  (25-75%  of  cells  stained)  and homogeneous  (>75%  of cells

stained).
 
         FFPE samples were derived from tumor micro arrays, as well as human tissue

blocks from seven different tumors, as outlined below.
 
 EFF}? Test Samples

,,,1;‘_\\“\“\\“\“““

i“lltrnan Tenet Miere \nays DthllpilOﬁ                     c1al Source    5

il“A“

96__cores from ”3 types of cancer3—3_________________________________________________                                                                                                             eMued tumet                                                              BiomaxCat# MC961

eOt-ariantame}             _6_4_ cores _M iB10cha1nCat# 25t

i$38le _

58.0.99Ie__s_                                 B10maxCat#L%

eCeleimtal earemema     :85 duplicate cores               B10maXCat#BC000110

“——“T‘“”

ElemMeme    sNILraher  Commercial So ce

LeBreast 'l'nmeru

etlel ereetal Carei

“““““““                                                          CHTN

{$1653        The FOLRl test article, marine OLRi atone BN32, was tested to determine

binding speeiticit‘v tn the huFOLRl antigi.1}. Using tne reperted IHC staining methods

FFPE sections of 30049 and 300—19 transfeeted with huFCﬁLRi (3004(Ii/FO'LRL) cell

pellets were stained and evaiuated fer FOUU.  The FOLRl test article speciﬁcally stained

300~l9/FOLR1+ cells and d tie staining in 38049 cells (3 home and negative,

-43,

respectively). These results trate that clone BN3.2 speciﬁcally s the huFOLRl

antigen. (Figure l).
 
         The BN3.2 antibody was also used to detect FOLRl expression on tissue samples.
 
 The immunoreactivity of each test and control article with tissues and cell pellets was

determined by the consulting pathologist, Dr. David Dorfman.  The cell pellet controls were

first evaluated ed by tissue samples. For each tissue evaluated, a description of the

staining intensity and staining uniformity was reported.  The staining intensity score and

uniformity scales are bed below.  The ﬁnal reported score for each tissue sample

evaluated is the score of the test article minus the score of the respective control article.
 
 The ABC level for each sample was estimated by comparing the staining score to the

calibrated cell pellet controls.
 
 InLeHSIty(amountofstaln) l   Tlnil‘urmiiy (nmnberafstained cells}

:                                 \

\“i                                         0                Negative

\                                                         :

lwwweak ,__M_, olNegatwe

2 Moderate FOC31¢E<2V

Strong              Heterogeneous(hetero)E2575/

"""" """veryStronrlHomogeneous(homrww>75/

{0157}        Antibodies bound per cell (ABC) values were determined for the FOLRl-positive

tumor cell lines (KB, , JEG3, and OVCAR3) using OLRl-Phycoerythyn'n,

BD Quantibrite Beads, and ﬂow cytometry and were shown to have different ABC values.
 
 (Figure 2).  Staining conditions were optimized for FOLRl so that the cell pellets prepared

from the FOLRl-positive tumor cell lines showed varying levels of staining intensity by

IHC.  The KB cell pellet exhibited very strong (3+) homogeneous staining with high

intensity, the IGROVl cell pellet showed strong (3) staining, the JEG3 cell pellet showed

moderate (2-3) geneous staining, while staining of the OVCAR3 cell pellet showed

low intensity (1—2) heterogeneous staining.  The FOLRl staining intensity trends observed

from the cell pellets correspond to the reported ABC values, where KB cells exhibited the

highest ABC value of 1,700,000, l cells ted the next highest ABC value of

260,000, JEG-3 exhibited a lower ABC value or 41,000 ABC, while OVCAR3 cells

-44_

showed the lowest ABC: value of 4,000. The staining results and respective ABt‘IZ vaiues are

iisted in the table below.
 
 ABC values and respective staining results for huFOLRl on cell lines and respective cell pellets.
 
 FQLR i

KB                 1,709,000

EGROV}                 260,000                  3 heme

a'B'EGS                                4i ,sus                             2~3 hetero

UV’CARE         E          4,000

Additional cell lines, including Capan-l, Jar, Hec—l-A, Hec—l—B, lshikawa, NCI H292, BT474EEI,

PA-l, OV—90, CaOv-4, CaOv—E, A2780, Ovcar-S, Ovcar—4, HCT—lS, 786-0, NCI H838, NCI H

522, NCl H2110, NCI H1734, NCI H228, and FU.OV-3 were tested and found to be FOLRl

positive but FOLRl expression levels and sensitivity to the anti-FOLRl immunoconjugate ty

.  For reference purposes, cell lines having consistent FOLRl expression and sensitivity to

anti—FOLRI immunoconjugates are red.

{0168}        Particularly important was that the lHC method was able to reliable detected FOLRl

expression in ovarian carcinomas and non-small cell lung cancer ) tissue s.
 
 As shown in Figure 3, FOLRl expression could ly be detected in ovarian carcinoma

and NSCLC samples scored 2 hetero to 3 homo. ABC values for these samples ranged from

imately 41,000 for samples scored 2 hetero, to greater than 260,000 for samples

scored 3 homo.  As shown in Figure 4, high staining intensity and uniformity of staining

was also observed in ovarian carcinomas, lung adenocarcinomas, and bronchioloalveloar

carcinomas.  Furthermore, sion of FOLRI in NSCLC samples (Figure 5) and in

ovarian carcinomas (Figure 6) were further found to be predominantly localized to the

ne in tissue samples.  Expression was detected across multiple samples from the

same, as well as different tumor samples.   Interestingly, none of the samples from

colorectal, breast, or small cell lung tumors were scored greater than 2 hetero.


 
 Example 2

In vivo efﬁcacy ofhuMov19-PEG4Mal-DM4 and huMov19—SPDB-DM4 conjugates in

comparison with similar non-targeting conjugates in a KB xenograft model

        FOLRl—targeting cleavable conjugate huMov19-SPDB—DM4 in comparison with

non—targeting huC242—SPDB-DM4, and non-cleavable conjugate huMov19-PEG4-Mal-

DM4 in comparison with non—targeting huC242—PEG4Mal-DM4 were tested using an

ished xenograft model of KB cells (very high FOLRl expression, 3+ homozygous by

manual IHC) implanted subcutaneous into SCID mice. Mice were randomized by body

weight into treatment groups and d either singly (SPDB conjugates) on day 3 post cell

inoculation, or three times weekly on days 3, 10, and 17 post cell inoculation with 5 and 10

mg/kg of a conjugate, respectively.  The median tumor volume of the different treatment

groups is d in Figure  7.  The treatments with either huMov19—SPDB-DM4,  or

huMov19-PEG4Mal-DM4 resulted in a decrease in median tumor volume as compared to

the PBS control, while the treatments with either of the respective non-targeting ate

did not e any signiﬁcant effect.
 
 Example 3

Dose-response anti—tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in OVCAR-3 human ovarian

carcinoma xenografts

{317%}        The umor effect of IMGN853 was evaluated in an ished subcutaneous

xenograft model of ovarian carcinoma. SCID mice were inoculated with OVCAR—3 n

carcinoma cells (1 x 107 cells/animal) injected subcutaneously into the right ﬂank. When the

tumors reached about 100 m3 in size (21 days after tumor cell ation), the mice were

randomly divided into four groups (6 s per group). Mice were treated with a single

intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of animals

received a single intravenous injection of PBS. Tumor growth was monitored by ing

tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was calculated with the formula: length x width x

height x 1/2.
 
         IMGN853 was highly active against OVCAR—3 tumors (IHC score of 3 homozygous

using manual IHC methods) in terms of tumor growth inhibition (T/C = 0 %) at both the 2.5

and 5.0 mg/kg dose levels (Figure 8). There were complete tumor regressions (CR) in 6/6

mice treated with IMGN853 at 5.0 mg/kg. There were partial tumor regressions (PR) in 6/6

-46..

mice and CR in 4/6 mice treated with IMGN853 at the 2.5 mg/kg dose level. 3 was

active at the 1.2 mg/kg dose level, resulting in a T/C of 18%, with 2/6 PR and 1/6 CR.
 
 According to NCI standards the T/C values ranging from 10% to 42% are considered to be

active, T/C of less than 10% are considered to be highly active.
 
 Example 4

Dose-response anti—tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in IGROV-l human ovarian

carcinoma xenografts.

{017.2}          The anti—tumor effect of IMGN853 was evaluated in an established subcutaneous

aft model of ovarian carcinoma. SCID mice were ated with IGROV-l ovarian

carcinoma cells (1 X 107 cells/animal) injected subcutaneously into the right ﬂank. When the

tumors reached about 100 mm3 in size (7 days after tumor cell inoculation), the mice were

randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were treated with a single

intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of animals

received a single intravenous injection of PBS. Tumor growth was monitored by measuring

tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was calculated with the formula: length X width x

height X 1/2.
 
         IMGN853 was highly active against IGROV-l tumors (IHC score of 3 homozygous

by manual methods) at the 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg dose levels, resulting in T/C values of 5% for

both dose levels (Figure 9). There were partial tumor regressions in 5/6 and 6/6 mice in the

2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg , tively. IMGN853 was inactive at the 1.2 mg/kg dose (T/C

= 47%).
 
 Example 5

Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in OV-90 human ovarian

carcinoma xenografts.
 
         The anti-tumor effect of IMGN853 was ted in an ished subcutaneous

aft model of ovarian carcinoma. SCID mice were inoculated with OV-90 ovarian

carcinoma cells (1 X 107 cells/animal) injected subcutaneously into the right ﬂank. When

the tumors reached about 100 m3 in size (13 days after tumor cell inoculation), the mice

were randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were treated with a

single intravenous ion of 3 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of

-47r

animals ed a singie enous injection of PBS.   A, control  group of animals

received PBS  administered intravenously a". the same schedule.  Tumor growth was

monitored lay measuring tumor size twice per week. 'iE‘umor size was calculated with the

formula: length x width x height X 1/3..
 
 {M75}       lMGNSSZS was active against OV~9C¥ tumors {ii-EC score of 3 lretero~homo by

manual methods) at the 2,5 and 5.0 rag/kg dose ievels, ing in T/C values of 36 and.

18%.», respectively (Figure l0). ‘l‘wo animals had l, tumor regressions in the SiO trig/leg

the treatment groups. B was

group; there were no other tumor regressions in any of

inactive at the 1.2 mg/kg dose (T/C = 77%).
 
 Exanqﬁeo

Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in SKOV-3 human ovarian

carcinoma xenografts.

[0176}        The anti-tumor effect of IMGN853 was ted in an established subcutaneous

xenograft model of n oma. SCID mice were inoculated with SKOV—3 ovarian

carcinoma cells (1 x 107 cells/animal) injected subcutaneously into the right ﬂank. When the

tumors reached about 100 mm3 in size (26 days after tumor cell inoculation), the mice were

randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were treated with a single

intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of animals

received a single intravenous injection of PBS. Tumor growth was monitored by measuring

tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was calculated with the formula: length X width X

height x 1/2.

        lMGNSﬁS was inactive against SKOV—B tumors (lllC score of 1—3 focal by manuai

methods) at all closes, with growth of ihlilGNiéSfi—treated tumors paraileling the PBS control

group (Figure ll). There was no data analysis performed; and the study was temiinated

early based on the inactivity or? lMGNSSCi in this model.
 
 Exanqﬂe7

Dose~response antiutumor activity of llvltiiN853 treatment in KB human cervical

arcinoma afts.
 
 {M78}       The antiwtumor effect of lMGNSSES was evaluated in an established subcutaneous

xeuograft cervical adenocarcinoma model. SCED mice were inoculated with KB cervical

,4gr

adenocarcinoma cells (1  X 107 cells/animal) injected subcutaneously into the right ﬂank.
 
 When the tumors reached about 100 mm3 in size (7 days after tumor cell inoculation), the

mice were randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were treated with

a single enous injection of IMGN853 at 1.0, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of

animals ed a single intravenous injection of PBS.  Tumor growth was monitored by

measuring tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was calculated with the formula: length X

width X height X 1/2.
 
         IMGN853 was highly active against KB tumors in terms of tumor growth tion

(T/C = 0 %) at both the 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg dose levels (Figure 12). Six of six mice in the 5.0

mg/kg and ﬁve of siX mice in the 2.5 mg/kg treatment group had CR5, and remained tumor-

free to the end of the study (day 120). The 1.0 mg/kg dose was active, resulting in a T/C of

37%, but there were no partial or te regressions.
 
 Example 8

lmmunohistochemical staining of FOLRl in in ﬁxed parafﬁn ed (FFPE)

samples— automated methods.

{0180}        The IHC staining assay uses IVD class I reagents including the Novocastra FOLRl

antibody (Novocastra/Leica Cat # NCI-L-FRalpha, clone BN3.2) as the test article and the

Leica Bond RX automated stainer. Bound test or control article were detected by incubation

wéth the Leica Bond Reﬁne detection system which includes a post primary reagent (rabbit

ouse IgG), followed by a polyneer reagent (goat anti—rabbit polymer) and 3,3-

Diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (DAB) chromogen. FFPE samples were stained with

the speciﬁed concentration(s) of primary antibody (prepared by diluting in Leica diluent

FOLRl) as outlined below.
 
 IHC Antibodies

wFolate Rec$8}'Kiﬁﬁg‘ZﬁBQSEEQEE/Leica‘E‘éiQiiiicil‘ffﬁiigiﬁii?

Test article”                   Lot ), murine, clone BN3.2, liquid concentrate: 75

ug/mL

IgGl (Beckman Coulter Cat.# 6602872, LotsZS7SPSO4-23

Control article”               and 2S7SPSO4-26) stock concentrationzl mg/mL, murine,

clone 2T8—2F5

_49“

FFPE Assay Method using Leica Bond RX

Amman                 Time

minutes

1333515112                 ?“

-— w:Perokide(Reﬁne

mdooenous Peiexjidasc Blank                     kit component)m5m1nuteswwm

fest Arti‘cie                         F:0LR1 at  1.9 ug/mL1n Leica      15 minutesuwm

diluent

Winn“‘“"llw"mm““V“;N‘m‘mmmmary,,   Reag€n¥kReﬁne‘     “““““““““““““

‘                                                                                                 E

kit)

POWEW  E'Iriiiiiitégmj

lVIlXedDAB (Reﬁnekit)“      W10mlnutesmm:

:(JouriterstammwHematoxylm (Refine kit)      tes WM

{$181}        All  stained  samples  were  evaluated  and  scored.   Control  samples  were  ﬁrst

evaluated followed by test samples (whole sections and individual cores from the TMAs).
 
 For each tumor tissue or cell pellet evaluated, a description of the staining ity and

respective proportion of tumor cells stained was reported.  Membrane associated staining

was recorded for every sample.  When duplicate scores were evaluated from one patient,

only the higher score was included in the analysis.  If the score bed only cytoplasmic

staining then the ﬁnal score was reported as zero (0). Intensity and uniformity were given to

each sample as described in the table outlined below.  Staining intensity and distribution

patterns were scored relative to control IgG staining (non-speciﬁc). Intensity was scored on

t=== moderate and 3 E strong) and distrébution

a scale of 0 to 3 (0 = no staining, 1 = weak, 2

was scored as focal (<25% of cells stained), heterogeneous (25-75% of cells stained) and

homogeneous (>75% of cells stained). In normal , only the deﬁned substructures were

evaluated when ating intensity and proportion.
 
 IHC Scoring System Consisting of Intensity and Uniformity Scales

rty (brlghtness of stain)

f     ity ﬁiiserwed            Intens1ty Category              IntenSIty Reported

‘                                      l

O                        Negatlve

{H                Very Weak

intensity (brivhmess QfSEain)

RRoak to lviodercrte

2                       Moderate

2—3                  Moderateto Strong

E9182}        FFPE tumor samples were derived from tumor micro arrays, as well as human tissue

blocks from seven ent , as outlined below.
 
 FFPE Test Samples: TMAs

Anatomic Site                                                         Number of     Total # of

Cores per      Patients

Patient

E Kidney           Pantomics     KIC1501             P-T-ARR-KID-     2               69

122711-1                         1

Pantomics   i LUC1501           EP-T-ARR-LNG—   E 2              70

122711 1         E               a

“‘“EW”   W ‘  777777

Tristar         69571059/TA1249   E-PTARR-OVA-   E

‘                                       E122711 1           :

T8235725-5        EL)T-ARR-OVA-  E

122111 1        a             E

OVClSOl         EP-T—ARR—OVA-  E

12271 l- l

......        WE.”      “WWW...“

...m                                   E;...........»....

6957109l/TA1322   RR-OVA-

2- l

l                                                                      ......"-—_

I ._...........«......“

,,                            m““W

E Uterus (Endo—     Pantomics     EMClSOl            PT-ARR-EME-

Emetrium)                    _WEWWMMM1227ll—l..

+._m“......“.....
 
 Various           Pantomics     MTUZESTW         R—

E                                   I                         12271l—mlVVVVVVVVVV

w...;..;.;(._;«.‘........... ...7...7....r.r....n..»““““an.muu...................._

«SE,

FFPE Test Samples: Whole Sections

.“xx“.“wunn“NV“...VVVVVV V.VVWVV_V_V__.“\“»““

Organ  iCode             Source      Diagnosis (per Source Documentation)

Ovary  jﬂu 1                 Unknown      endometroid adenocarcinoma

,V;;,,,,JV bJ                          Proteogenex     g endometrord adenocarcinoma

,;,,,,;.;V,,, LN                          CHTN             adenocarcinoma, mixed with features of hod

serous and clear

W...          VVVVVVVVVVVV“Wm

4                                        adenocarcmoma, high grade w/ mixed papillary, serous,

g                                                endometrloidandclear cell areas                         5

i; serous aryadenocarcinoma

Vme‘mmmcm“VVVVVWMM”...“me

SBI‘OUS adenocarcinoma

Vr.r.r_r_““»»»‘“‘mme.
 
 Proteogenex    +.,,,,,,,,,

....................mm

‘ Proteogenex

serous papillary arcinoma                        1

I1      VVVVVVVVVVVVVV.VVVsccVVVVVtcccccccccccVVVVV.aaass.......5cccccrr..............4

adenocarcmoma, poorly differentiated

adenocarcinoma, acinar welldifferentiatedwith

bronchioloalveolar featuresa““Wuug.s........VVVVVVVV.VVVVVVVVV—r..““‘»»““““ml

adenocarcmoma, mucinous features

adenocarcinoma

adenocarcinoma

l «A.

adenocarcinoma (bronchioloalveolar) carcinoma

adenocarcmoma

arcinoma, moderately differentiated, with clear

3 cell es

:                                                         l

a                                                         t

<                                                         t

i             ..s...‘.V..VVVVVVVVVVVVVVV.V~‘ccccc‘cceec.ccccVVVVaaaa....a......ss_..rr..rrrr‘.............t..VVVVVVVV_____Vv;;

        Cells (tumor cells or transfected cells) were formalin ﬁxed and parafﬁn embedded

(FFPE). FFPE cell pellet samples shown to exhibit varying ranges of FOLRI expression by

ﬂow try and normal human tissues were used in this study to characterize positive

and negative controls and for analysis of speciﬁcity.  The cell pellets exhibiting varying

levels of FOLRl and the respective scores are reported below.  There is a poor correlation

between staining scores and the respective FOLRl expression levels (antibodies bound per



cell, ABC, determined by calibrated ﬂow cytometry) in the cell pellets.  For example a

score of 1—3 hetero is given for the SW620 and lGROV-l exhibiting 40,098 and 565,481

ABC values, respectively.  Additionally, Hela cells showing an ABC value of 1.5 million

resulted in a score of 2-3 hetero while 300.19/FR1 exhibiting 830,003 ABC returned a

higher score of 3 homo.
 
 Final Scores for Celi Pellets at a Test Article Concentration of 1.9 ug/mL

§ {39.31 Line                            aABC Value

rrrrrr              “1:“Staining Score »“““

Wu““u....n~“~“vw_»__rrrrrrrrrr          w—v—_                                               §

3 83137621}                               411,888                                I-3 hetero

T471)                                                         l -2 hetero

—(nun........“WW“.“way.“u.»»»‘ “.Tmﬁé

Wuuuu.«....VVwwwww«Whe‘““»»»“‘Wu——       _

1URUV 1                  L565,481                     1-3 hetero                  g

30019/ FRl                830003                    3homo                    E

HBEA             E1 500587            :2:3hetero

KB                  "14,000,000               3homo

aThe reported ABC s anaverageofant1bod1es boundpercell1n thecellpopulation and“

was determined as follows: a concentration of 1.0 X 108M of anti—FOLRl ~PE (1 :1) was used

determine ABC values on the respective cell line using ﬂow cytometry methods and Quantibrite

TM Beads (BD Biosciences).
 
 -         The ﬂow cytometry rams represent the distrébution of cells versus the number

of anti-FOLRl  bound per cell (FOLRl  sion level).   Both the histograms and

respective  IHC  staining  results  te  that  each  of  these  cells  lines  contain  a

heterogeneous population of cells having a broad range of FOLRl  sion.   The

exception is the /FR1 cell line showing botl: a uniform ﬂow cytometry histogram and

IHC staining score.  This data suggests that cell lines each expressing a more uniform level

of FOLRl may provide a better ation between ABC values and respective staining

scores.  Although the assay demonstrated positive staining in all FOLRl-positive cell pellet

controls, there is a poor correlation between staining scores and the respective FOLRl

expression levels from most of these cell pellets. Therefore, cell s from this group

could not be identiﬁed as high-, medium—, and low-expressing controls. Representative

raphs and histograms depictirzg FOLRl expression in cell lines by IHC and ﬂow

cytometry are shown in FIGURE 13.

{111353          To determine assay conditions, a range of dilutions of test and control article were

tested to select conditions that t an appropriate level of sensitivity. Experiments were

-53..

performed on a panel of FFPE samples including FOLRl-positive cell s and a TMA

consisting of FOLRl positive and negative normal tissues (adrenal (cortex/medulla), breast

(ducts  and  lobules/connective  tissue),  fallopian  tube  (surface  epithelium/muscle  wall),

kidney (tubules/ glomeruli), lung (type I/Il pneumocytes/interalveolar connective tissues),

pancreas  (ducts/islets  of  Langerhans),  ry  gland  (ducts/stroma),  skin  (eccrine

glands/epidermis), h (surface epithelium/submucosa)), and whole sections of tumor

tissues (10 ovarian tumor s and 10 lung tumor samples).  Each sample was d

with a serial dilution of test article concentrations (0.25, 0.5, 0.9, 1.9, 3.8, and 7.5 ug/mL) or

control article concentration of 1.9 ug/mL or 9.8 ug/mL.  The relative staining ities

for each dilution were compared for each sample to identify the l dilution. The

criteria for l dilution was a dilution which  1) caused no background staining in

samples stained with isotype control 2) caused no staining in negative tissue controls stained

with test article and 3) differentiated between varying levels of membrane-associated

FOLRl expression among test samples representing the indication of interest (ovarian

tumor, endometrial tumor, NSCLC tumor, and kidney tumor FFPE tissues).  Of the ﬁve

dilutions of test e evaluated, the concentration of 1.9 ug/mL showed the best dynamic

automated protocols (Bake and Dewax

range in staining results using the Leica Bond RX

Protocol, HIER using the ER2 for 20 minutes protocol, and the staining protocol IHC F-

With Extra ).
 
 Example 9

Identiﬁcation and characterization of controls that terize the dynamic range of the assayautomated

staining methods

        Quality controls:  Human normal salivary gland, lung and pancreas were identiﬁed

as positive tissue controls to be employed in each assay to verify that the staining procedure

performed as expected.  Human normal esophagus was identiﬁed as a negative control.
 
 These controls were characterized as follows: in order to establish controls which cover the

dynamic range of the assay, a tissue microarray (TMA) consisting of several FOLRl

ve and negative normal tissue s expected to exhibit the c range of the

assay was used as an assay veriﬁcation control during the optimization and validation

phases.   Four normal tissues with identiﬁed structures in this TMA were identiﬁed as

suitable assay controls as follows: respiratory epithelium of normal human lung (score of 2



homo); ducts of normal human pancreas (score of " homo apical); intercalated ducts of

normal human salivary gland {score of l~2 hetero); and normal human esophagus (score of

0) Over a total of 5; assay runs the identiﬁed suitable assay controls from this TMA gave

identical results. These results indicate that the selected controls give consistent results and

span the dynamic range of the assay.
 
 Structures in Normal ’if'issues identiﬁed as Controls that Span the Dynamic Range of the

Assay

ENtirin;E           iii}Structure    StainingScoremiim   Staining Scoreﬁest‘i

E'G:gen         :

(controi article)      article)

EEsophagiix    kill stmctnre;        0 (negative)       Eﬁiiicganm;

livaryGland lotei‘calated ducts   NEW0 (negative) WE i~2 here

i                WWW

atoryEpitheimvo‘iElhomo

NPantria:---~WEDncts              (E) {negati“3)meMMwE”honiowapitai

[\rpicaE staining is deﬁnedas polarized nonuinfmm membrane ng

Example 10

Perfom‘iance analysis oftite ted staining method.

{$187}        The intended use of this assay is to speciﬁcally detect FOLRl reproducibly and with

the  appropriate  ivity  to  entiate  varying  levels  and  g  uniformity  of

ne—associated FOLRI expression (optimal dynamic range) in n, endometrial,

NSCLC, and kidney FFPE tumor tissues.   Therefore,  speciﬁcity, reproducibility, and

sensitivity were considered as performance criteria.
 
         The speciﬁcity and sensitivity of the study assay was evaluated by ison of

normal tissue staining with the study assay to previously reported results.  Staining results

frorn this study were compared with ponding staining results from Scorer et al 2010

(A Fall Immunohistochemical Evaluation of a Novel Monoclonal Antibody to Folate

Receptor alpha. The Novocastra Journal of Histopathology, REAGENTS: ):8-12,

bing the same antibody clone BN3.2) with FFPE normal tissue and from the Tissue

Cross Reactivity (TCR) study using IMGN853 (huMovl9 (M9E46A) antibody) on fresh.

frozen normal tissue (ImmunoGen Report lMH28—OO3). Comparison of the staining results

from each method indicate that the three assays showed generally similar normal tissue

staining proﬁles with differing relative sensitivities, with the Scorer assay being least

sensitive, the study assay (IMH28-011) having intermediate sensitivity, and the TCR study

method being the most sensitive. Some structures showed positive staining in the two more

sensitive methods (study assay and TCR assay) only. There were no examples of positive

staining in the least sensitive assay used by Scorer that were not also positive in the study

assay and TCR method. These results demonstrate that the speciﬁcity and sensitivity of the

study assay is appropriate for the evaluation of FOLRl expression in normal tissues.
 
         The city and sensitivity of the study assay was further characterized by

staining and evaluating a panel of tumor TMAs consisting of ovarian, endometrial, NSCLC,

and kidney tumors (a sample set representative of the assay’s intended clinical use).
 
 Positive staining was consistently localized to the tumor tissue with normal adjacent tissue

components including , blood vessels, lymphocytes and normal organ tissue staining

negative or positive as expected.  For each subtype of either ovarian carcinoma or NSCLC,

the distribution of ng scores among TMAs from the different vendors showed a similar

distribution  of scores  suggesting this method  is  not  sensitive  to  various  ﬁxation  and

processing conditions.  Because the distribution patterns were similar among the TMAS, the

data from the ent arrays was combined and scores were categorized. A summary of

these scores for tumor subtypes that contained 20 or more samples per subtype are listed in

the following tables. As summarized in these tables, a dynamic range of scores is noted for

each tumor type and indicates that this assay shows the appropriate ivity to distinguish

varying levels and varying uniformity of ne—associated FOLRl  expression in

ovarian, endometrial, NSCLC, and kidney FFPE tumor tissues.  Representative photos of

serous ovarian, endometroid ovarian, NSCLC, endometrial carcinoma, and renal clear cell

carcinoma are provided in Figures 14-18.  onal representatitive photos useful, for

example, in a staining guide or diagnostic kit, are shown in Figures 23—25.  These studies

indicate the assay is c and has the appropriate sensitivity for use as a stic or

companion diagnostic reagent.
 
 Summary of Staining Scores for inant Subtypes of n Tumors

Subg"“p““;"""        “E‘Siliﬁglvumser

1                       We)

~56-

Eff} RS

l)Focal staining ns were excluded

Summary of Staining Scores for NSCLC Tumors

Sample Number

§Tota1  23      722

hetero"A

iNegative

heteroa                                =

L Fugitiww

iAdeho-     A11b                                             s 47       20

icarcmoma            $100)  (25)   .  (58)

Spec1ﬁed    7

Bronchiolo-                ~~

(100)(29)

;alveolar     !                  i (71)

w 7777777777    ”EmrrrrrrrrrrL                                     “71;

Squamous   All        74     l

100    1         5

carcinoma  i           in   )5;()W:    ( )

) Focal

stainlng patterns were excluded

All arcinoma samples were included except the speciﬁed bronchioloalveolar carcinoma samples

_ 57

Summary of Staining Scores for Adenocarcinoma ofthe Endometrium and Clear Cell

Tumors of the Kidney

WW,  “‘e

Tumor/Subﬂpe i Sample Number

1:%)

i                     Exec“..‘.\w.m.n.}..~m......m..V“w.wV__vmv.r.““““ee» m“           i        mm...“tT."nmﬁmmzzzrﬁteeee

i                     a Total   E 23         _2         2 1        1-3 focal

k                                     3 Any          ve

i           E heteroa    heteroa    hetero“               : Positivity

l            :                                       ‘

We.“a»... .w...wmvw.‘wr                  .ze..““‘““»“““

._._.......... "ﬁnnnvwﬁvw

eeeeecee‘“

i tnum/   58      5         3      E 30      10       40        18

i Aden0_               u..u“~§un~~ﬁnwwwmea    »»»»»“““““

E un“......u“ui,u.“w“vVV__-;;;=A.x»§\»»\\\.“W                                                                                       (100)     (9)          40)      E (52)                    (69)          (31)

carcinoma                                                  a

{gvvvvvv,_                           w                             ,,,,,, t

3 Cell                 (100)     (0)                    E (68)       (18)         (85)          (15)

WWW      “WW“

FoEai“;i;1‘Hng§aEEﬁ ileiiiied

        The precision of the study assay was investigated by ting intra—run and inter-

run reproducibility of the assay using three FFPE tumor tissue samples of ovarian, NSCLC,

or kidney tumor where each sample exhibits either a high, medium, or low score. For intra~

run reproducibility, nine slides each containing a section of lung, ovarian, and renal tumor

were placed at nine random locations on the Leica Bond RX.  For inter-run reproducibility,

three slides containing sections from the same sample were stained on three different days.
 
 All slides from both intra-run and inter—run reproducibility experiments were evaluated and

showed equivalent staining results for each respective sample: lung tumor (high: 3 homo),

ovarian  tumor  (medium:  2  hetero),  and  renal  tumor  (low:  1-2  ).  This  data

demonstrated reproducibility across tissue types with low, medium and high level of

expression.
 
 Example 1 l

A FOLRl expression score ofZ 2 heterogeneous by IHC is a patient selection criterion for

treatment with IMGN853.
 
         The levels of FOLRl-expression in tumor cell lines were determined using the an

antibody-l)E  conjugate  (FRIPE)  and  the  QuantiBRlTE  system.  Three  ovarian

oma cell lines (Igrov—l, Skov-3 and Ovear-3), a choriocarcinoma cell line leg-3 and a

cervical carcinoma cell line KB were included in the study. In order to obtain reliable ABC

values, the g experiments with an antibody—PE conjugate should be performed at a

-58—

saturating tration (concentration, at which all available binding sites are occupied by

the  conjugate).  To  determine  such  concentration  for  the  FRIPE  conjugate,  we

performed binding experiments on a panel of FOLRl—positive cell lines with various

FOLRl sion. The cells were incubated with a wide concentration, range of FRl—24-PE

conjugate for two hours on ice, washed with FACS buffer (PBS with 1% BSA), ﬁxed with

1% formaldehyde  in PBS  and  analyzed  on  a FACSCalibur ﬂow  cytometer.   At  a

concentration of 1x10'8 M the conjugate ted cell surface binding sites on all tested cell

lines l, Jeg-3, Skov-3, Ovcar-3, and KB. In subsequent binding ABC-experiments

FRIPE conjugate was used at concentration of 1x10"8 M. Each sample was analyzed in

triplicates; several independent experéments were med on each cell line. The highest

expression was found on KB cells with the imate ABC value of 4,000,000i300,000,

followed by Igrov-l  and Jeg-3 cell lines with the ABC values of 400,000i85,000 and

150,000i75,000, respectively. Two cell lines,  Skov—3  and Ovcar—3, had low FOLRl

expression, 20,000i10,000 and 7,00014,000 ABC, respectively. A signiﬁcant experimentto-experément

variation of ABC values was observed for Jeg—3 cells, where the ABC—values

varied from 40,000 to 300,000. This varéability likely reﬂected some biological properties

of the cell line rather than the assay variability, since ABC values obtained for the other

analyzed cell lines were much less variable (see table below).
 
 “Celi‘line    l

i            ABC                     Experiment--toexPehEIehi‘QQIii

{Mean i ‘53» it)”          The highest ABC          The lowest ABC

,                                                                                                           ,1

i                                                1         registered                 registered

KB        4000,000 3:300000,4     4,500,000““ WW3800000W

,,        ‘i‘

Igrov-l        %   400,000j:85000 5            480,000                   280,000

Jeg-3            150,000 i:75,000, 14      imwwm          40w000w

Skov—3“       r

,000“3: 10,000 2m 10,OOOWWWWa

SDStandarddev1ation n- number ofindependent experiments

ABC values were determined by a FACS based assay with FR1-24 PE—labeled antibody and

BRITE . Mear: i Standard Deviation (SD) was ated for independent

experiments.
 
 E8192}         Potency and speciﬁcity of 1MN853wwas analyzed t FOLRE ~positive teii

lines with a wide range of FOUR} sion (the ABC values of the cell lines are provided

above) in addition FOL-R1negative ceiii lines Namaiwa and SWZ were included in the

experiments. IMGN853 was highly xic against cells with high FOLRl expression KB

(4,000,000i300,000 ABC), l (400,000zt85,000 ABC) and Jeg—3 (150900171000

ABC), with the ICso values of 0.10i0.01  nM, .07 nM and  1.00i0.05 nM,

respectively.  The illing activity against all three cell lines was FOLRl-dependent,

since an excess of unmodiﬁed 9 (M9346A) antibody (0.5 uM) markedly decreased

y of the conjugate to the typical non-speciﬁc levels (from 10 to 20~fold). 3

was only marginally active against the low FOLRl expressors Skov-3 and Ovcar-3 cells

(20,000::10,000 and 7,000i4,000 ABC, respectively), and against FOLRl-negative cells

Namalwa and SW2, with the IC50 values greater than 2 nM. The cytotoxic activity of

IMGN853 against these cell lines was low and not FOLRl-dependent, as blocking with

huMovl9 (M9346A) did not affect it.  See Figures 19 and 20.
 
         FFPE samples ed from mouse xenograft tumor models were evaluated for

FOLRl positivity using the optimized and validated assay described above.  No staining

was seen in tumor cells of any xenograft samples stained with control article.  FFPE mouse

xenograft tissues derived from the following cell lines showed the following staining

patterns: lgrov-l, KB, and NCI-H2110 showed homogeneous staining ns with level 3

intensity;  Ishikawa and  Ovcar  3  showed heterogeneous  staining patterns  with  level  3

intensity; LXFA737 showed homogeneous staining patterns with level 2 intensity; OV-90

showed  heterogenous  patterns  with  level  2  intensity;  and  SKOV3  was  negative.
 
 Representative photos of tumor xenografts are provided in Figures 21 and 22.

-60—

E\ParentalN   Disease‘ EFlnalbcore       "SEEMS;

Cell Line   E Indication      E                    Category

or Tumor  E

IGROV—I EOvarian cancerE I —3 homo       E 3 homo

E                     l-3homo        7

E                     E1-3 homo

Ishikawaum‘EndometnumE2-3hetero 7777777777   E3hetero

cancer           1 2‘hetero/3

focal

E                     E 2 hetero/3 focal

i                     E2 hetero/3 focal     , ,

“ “E‘éFVmical

E 3 homo        Ehomo

cancer         E 3WW

mm we  1'2 hdﬁiB'Ziiiiii........

2 homo

‘“ENsEic

NCI—                     2—3 homo”      EE‘homo

H”Ovarian

OV-90           cancer  1-2 hetero       3:16:30

WghetemE

OVCAR3 63mm cancer  1333%

hetero

“                                            E

Ovarian cancer Negatlve        Eémi

Negatlve                    i

        A staining threshold (22 heterogeneous) requires both a minimal level of expression

ing  intensity)  and minimum  distribution  of staining  (percentage  of tumor  cells

expressing FOLRI). Pre-clinical data provides cation for this threshold in ovarian

carcinoma. Mouse xenograft tumor s with IHC scores of 2 2 heterogeneous exhibit

sensitivity to IMGN 853 in vivo. FFPE samples ed from mouse xenograft ovarian

tumor models were evaluated for FOLRl positivity using the optimized and validated assay

bed above. Two ovarian carcinoma xenograft models OVCAR-3, and IGROV— I

showed a heterogeneous or homogeneous staining pattern with level 3 intensity. The

xenograft model derived from OV-9O ovarian oma cells showed a heterogeneous

staining pattern with level 2 intensity; the Skov-3 ovarian carcinoma model was FOLRI-

negative.  IMGN853 was highly active in the two ovarian models with level 3 FOLRI

intensity and active in the OV—9O model with level 2 FOLRI intensity. No ty was

observed in the SKOV-3 model.  Xenograft models were also evaluated for other diseseas

~61—

indications including lung, endometrium, and cervical tumors and, although correlations

were detected between activity and FOLRl ng scores, additional samples must be

tested.

{@195}        The sensitivity of ovarian tumor xenograft models to IMGN853 versus the Eevei of

FOLRI sion

Xenograft    In vivo activity (5 mg/kg of  Intensity score, distribution

IMGN853, single dose)                                  w,

Mew...“         ,,

OVCAR3   Highly active                              E

- 3 heterogeneous               E

“mmmm...            ,,      u...mummw{momenmtme

E    IGROV-l       Highly active                    E 3 homogeneous

OV-90     Active                  2 heterogeneous

E     SKOV-3      s Inactive                            Negative

E                     =                                     :

The sensitivity of other tumor xenograft models to IMGN853 versus the level of FOLRl expression

In vivo activity (5 Eng/kg 0f           Intensity score,        E

IMGN853, single dose)              distribution           E

Highly active                          3 homogeneous

wa   Eindometrium  Inactive                             2 neous        E

E:                  ooooo WWW

KB     Eilervical     Highly active                3 homogeneous     E

:“WWMMMWWHW

        All  publications,  patents,  patent  applications,  intemet  sites,  and  accession

numbers/database sequences (including both polynucleotide and polypeptide sequences)

cited herein are hereby incorporated by nce in their entirety for all purposes to the

same extent as if each individual publication, , patent application, internet site, or

accession number/database ce were speciﬁcally and individually indicated to be so

incorporated by reference.
 
 -

SEQEENCES

SEQ ID NQt’i — n foiate recc‘pmr 1

TI‘QLLLLLV“WAX/WGEESAQTR{AWAR'I‘ELLNVCMNAKBHKEKPGPEZEQKLHEQCR

PWRKNACCS’ENTSQBAHKD‘VSYLYRFNWNHCGEMAPACKRHFIQDTCLYECSPNE...GE’Wiﬁ

QQVDQSWRKERVLNVPLCKEEIXIEQWWEDCRTSYTCKSNWHKGWNW/"1‘86ENKCAVGA

ACQPFHFY}???PTVLC’NEIWTHSYKVSNYSR‘Ci‘SG-KCEQMWFDRKQGNPNEEVAKE1‘Yl’fL/XAl‘s/i

SGAGPWAA‘WPF1,,I,,S’3L,.AE.,MILLWLLS

SEQ ID N02 ~ human ﬁ‘ﬁate receptor 1 nudeic acid Sequsnce

atggctcagcggatgacaacacagc;tgGigdeem:tagtgigggtggctgtagtaggggaggctcagacaaggattgcatgggccaggact

gagcttcicaaigtctgcatgaacgccaagcaccacaaggaaaageGag,gccccgaggacaagttgcatgagcagtgEcgamctggagga

agaatgectge‘igttctavmaaaaccagecaggaagcccataaggatgtttﬁct3cata‘iatagaﬁcaactggaaccactgtggagagatggca.

cctgcctgcaaacggcamcatcc21ggacacctgcctctacgagtgctcccacaacﬁggggccctggatccagcaggtggatcagagctgg

cgcaaagagcgggtactgaacgtgcccctgigcaaagaggactgtgagcaatggtgggaagaﬁgtatgcacc‘tcctacacctgcaagagcaa

ctggcacaagggctggaactggacttcagggtttaacaagtgcgcagigggagctgcctgccaacctﬁccatﬁctacﬁccccacacccactg

ﬁctgtgcaatgaaatctggactcacit.etacaaggtcagcaactacagccgagg{Iagtggccgctgcatccagatgtggﬁcgacccagccca

gggcaacaccaatgaggaggtggcgaggm:iatgctgcagccatgagtggggctgggccctgggcagcctggcc{itcctgcttagcctgg

ccciaatgctgctgtggctgctcagc

SEQ 11} N03 — huMOViQ VHC

QVQLVQSGAE‘VVKPGASVKESCKASGYTFTGYFMNWVKQSPGQSLEWIGRIHPYDGDTFY

NQKFQGKA‘E‘LTVDKSSNTAHMELLSLXIT‘SEDEAVYYCTRYDGSKAMDYWC:QG'I‘TVTVSS

SEQ 113N024 ~ huMevw VLCV} .00

DEVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQFAHSCKASQSVSPA Ts’l‘S LMH'WYHQKPGQQPRLLIYRASNLEA(3V

PDRFSGSGSKTDETLN 3 SP VELA'EEEILFAxtXT‘x’YCQQSREYPYTFGGGI‘KJLLEEIKR

SEQ ID NOIS ~ huMQv19 VLCVLSO

DI 8 3?1.;S’LAVSLGQPAHSCKASQSVSFAG’E‘SLMHWYHQKPGQQPRIZJiEJYKASNLEAGV

PDRFSGSGSK3715)FTLHSPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREY}?YI'FGGGTKLEEKR

A global biosciencc nonproﬁt

organization ted to biological

standards and biodiversity

IP, Licensingiand-Serviccs

10801 University ard

-2209 USA

Mammals, ngim'azo 1

Telephone: (800) 638—6597

facsimile: (703)334—2932

Internet: hrrpzjlwwwmtoaorg

min-Wm“

wW'tmmw

gs»sexesemsamxwwwwswsiswiuessua-memmmsmmwm:_';‘m\wtt\3\v;§s;\§saatmmemwmOF DEPOSIT

BUDAPEST RESTRICTED ICATEINTERNATIONALRECOGNITION OF

BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE                OF PATENT PROCEDURE

FOR THEPURPOSES

THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMSINTERNATIONAL FORM

TO. RULE 7.3

‘            DEPOSIT ISSUED PURSUANT

RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN AL                        10.2

ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE

AND VIABILlTY STATEMENT

in connection

received your deposit of seeds/Strain(s)lstrain'(s)

Coilection (ATCC®) has

The American Type Culture                                   is provided to fulﬁll Patent Ofﬁcerequirements.
 
 The foiloWing infonnation

with the ﬁling of an application for patent.
 
 Ms. Olga Ab

lmmunoGen. inc.

830 Winter Street

Waltharn, MA 02451—1477

lmmunoGen, inc.
 
 Deposited on Behalf of:

by theATCC®2     April 07, 2010

Date of Receipt of strain(s)

.lQLQEéﬁﬂspeifiwﬂQﬁiﬂﬂéSIRE};          Quantity Received:

identiﬁcation Reference byDegositor‘.                                              ‘25 vials

vials

recombinant plasmid DNA, phMov19H6v1.QCTK    PTA-10773

recombinant plasmid DNA, phMov‘i-QLCV‘LO

that:

The ATCC® understands                                                                 to infringe-the

either express or implied.

does not grant ATCC® a license,                     either express or

1.      The deposit of these seeds/strain(s)             to others does not grant them a e,

of these seeds/straws)

, and our release

implied. to infringethe patent.

it shall- be your  responsibility

term of the patent,

die-or be destroyed during the-effective                            for distribution for

2.      if the deposit should:                                     to supply a sufficient quantity

it is also your responsibility                                      most

to replace it with viable material.

or 5 years ing-the

the material for 30 years

will distribute; and maintain                              c‘ountriesrare signatory

the deposit'ter-m. ATCC®                           United'States and many other

whichever'is longer. The

recent request for the deposit,

to the st Treaty.                                                                       not to

e-time service charge,

of a U.S. Patent, the ATC

instructed by the

Prior to the issuance                                   thereto or to their deposit except as             and-

seeds/straini‘s) or any information relating                     to release the seeds/strain(s)

distribute these                                     issues we are responsible                         for the

ofﬁce. After relevant patent                     We will inform you of requests

depositor or relevant patent                         without any restrictions.

for distribution to the public

they will be made available          of deposit.

strain(s) for 30 yearsfrom date

-—    WWmvcgom~MV¢§£§\9¢.§§\_)\-§\VK€A\\§§h\%§$§r§x§wﬁ§§y§i§i¢

WQﬁskwx‘WWWWW—W       Doc-1D: 20127

Revision: 2

Effective Data? 10/13/2909



A global bioscience nonprofit

.'\' f: . E                                           organization dedicated to bio‘logical

“                                               stnndards and biodiversity

IP, Licensing and'Services

10301 sity Boulevard

Mamassu. Virginia 20'] 10—2209

Telephone: (800) 638-6597

Facsimile: (703) 334-2937.
 
 Internet: htth/wwwmccnrg

1m:—gg§§§gﬁcg§$§qmﬁmwxwg§§z§m9mwwﬁgpwwwcgjwmmmmymw,xwgwwmxgwﬁwéggédﬁiawmwww

seeds/strain(‘s)lwere viable

2010 and on that date, the

The deposit was tested Agril 201                                          Manassas, VA, USA

American Type Culture tion (ATCC®),

international Depository Authority:

authority to represent ATCCG).
 
 Signature of person having

i' mgiunyngmd hymn.

o-ATC‘.

lhl Flam-klhhlun,

LntF-d mam/innit ,  0W5“WW,“

‘i‘il‘u'lnmzwuhmnoalcmg. o-US

]: 155in men-                                   Agrii 23: 2010

"mm—M“.

,~»_»w .V. ....
 
 Date

ATCC® Patent Depository

cc: Eric Steffe

2921 .0020000;

Ref; Docket or Case. No;

Wmm-va-WMAWWWW“\M\WMWW“\V°~VKW‘° ,_

Doc D: 20127

Revision: 2

Eﬁectha Date: 10/13/2099



A global ence nonproﬁt

organization dedicated to biological

standards andrbiodiverslty

lP, Licensing and‘Services

10801 University Boulevard.
 
 Manassas,.Virginia.201‘l0—2209 USA

Telephone: (800) 638-6597

Facsimile: (703) 334-2932

lnte'rnet: http:JIwww.atcc;org

1:«coax{Q‘SSKMQ53‘§3§f§t§m.<,«vgossxﬂex:§\ww§<wiﬁﬁ§§xt§s&&$§a-WK§§'<§~W‘S\W\MW(&.\Yﬁ\$tv§m¢zg§wx\m\§3s;: §sxs§§xw§m~gvz§otwWpﬁsmmwwsPamemesmmweﬁ

ST RESTRICTED ICATE OF DEPOSIT

BUDAPEST TREATY ON'T‘HE ATIONAL RECOGNITION

PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE

THE DEPOSIT OF RGANISMS FOR'THE

INTERNATIONAL FORM

ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 7.3

RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF'AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT

PURSUANT TO RU LE 10.2

AND VIABILITY STATEMENT ISSUED

received your deposit of seeds/strain(s)/strain(s) in connection

The American Type e Collection (ATCC®) has  information is ed to fulﬁll Patent Ofﬁce ements.
 
 With the ﬁling of an application for patent The following

Ms. Olga Ab

immunoGen. Inc.

830 Winter Street

Waltham, MA 02451—1477

Deposited on Behalf of:        immunoGenl inc.
 
 Date of Receipt of seeds/strain(s) by the ATCC®:     April 07: 2010

Quantity Received:

Lgenﬁcatiolﬁefergme..b'y Dggtgsitor:   ATCC ®Patent Deg}sit Designation;

PTA-10774                       25 vials

Recombinant plasmid DNA, phMov19LCv‘l.6'

PTA-10775                       2'5 vials

Recombinant plasmid DNA, 1-21HC

PTA-10776                       2‘5 vials

Recombinant plasmid DNA, phFRT] -21 LC

The ATCC® understands that:

to infringe the

rant ATCC® a license, either s or implied,

i.      The deposit of these seeds/strain(s9 does not Q

s) to others does not grant them a license, either express or                                                                                                 , and our release of these seeds/strain(

implied, to infringe the patent.

be your

the effectiveterm of the patent, ll         responsibility

2.      If the deposit should die or be destroyed during                        sufﬁcientquantity for distribution for

to replace it‘ with viable material;  it is also your responsibility to supply a

years following the most

and maintain the material for 30 years or

the deposit term. ATCC® will distribute                                     other countries are signatory

is longer. The United States and many

resent reqUest for the deposit, whichever

to the Budapest Treaty.

not to

the ATCC® agrees in consideration for a one-time service charge,

Prior to the issuance of a US. Patent,                                                     instructed by the

distribute these seeds/strain(s) or any information relating thereto or to their deposit except as

to release the seeds/strain(s) and

depositor or relevant patent ofﬁce. After relevant patent issues we are sible

will inform you of requests for the

the public without any ctions. We

they will be made available for distribution to

seeds/strain(s) for 30 years from date of deposit.

youri‘m‘ivzswsﬁivixﬁvg.

ammwmnmmuwwmw.Wowns-MWmessikxwmx’s:eawm<«W~‘-®¥ewmﬁ“ﬁDoc ID: 20127

Revision:.-2

Effective Date; 101132009



A global bioscience nonproﬁt

organization dedicated to biological

standards and biodiversity

iP. Licensing and Services

10801 University Boulevard

Manassas, Virginia 20110-2299 USA

Telephone: (800) 638-6597

Facsimile: (703) 334-2932

Internet: http:.[iwww.aicc.org

mm-szxwmmmmuumwmwmmvmmwmmmwwﬁtxmwKwiﬂwqhﬁWmawﬁummmmmmmwmmwm

The deposit‘was tested Agril 23, 2010 and on te, the seeds/strain(,s) were viable

international tory ity: American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®), Manessas. VA, USA

Signature of person having authority to represent ATCC®:

Digiuliy sign-d by Latin

t" Ramakrkhnan

"  arugula Ronniqishmmva‘m:

110445 ‘ilci m6~04w

._e,                                     Agﬁi26,2010

ATCC® Patent Depository                                        Date

cc: Eric Steffe

Ref: Docket or Case No: 29210020000;

.wtwmmmwm-”mumummxw.“Wnaw‘me-muwurWuano.w+—emw~gmmgsywmﬁdemossmmxxg‘x'ﬁgiwg‘gx‘ m’j'gv' \gsémxg‘mwm'a

Due in: 20127

-                 on: 2

Effective Date: 10/13/2003

—67- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
