
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 METHODS FOR SING EFFICACY OF FOLR1 CANCER THERAPY

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED ATIONS

       This application is a divisional of New Zealand Application No. 615742, filed on

March  2012,  and  is  related  to  International  Patent  Application  No.

, filed on 30 March 2012 and claims priority from U.S. Provisional

Application No. 61/471,007, filed on 1 April 2011; each of which is incorporated herein

by reference in its entirety.
 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

Field of the Invention

       The field of invention generally relates to increasing the efficacy of the treatment

of cancers characterized by the overexpression of human folate receptor 1 (FOLR1).
 
 More ically, the ion concerns more effective treatment of patients

susceptible to or diagnosed with cancer, in which the tumor cells press FOLR1 as

determined by a gene expression assay, with a FOLR1 nist, e.g., a FOLR1

immunoconjugate.
 
 Background Art

       Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the developed world, with over

one million people diagnosed with cancer and 500,000 deaths per year in the United

States alone.  Overall it is estimated that more than 1 in 3 people will develop some

form of cancer during their me. There are more than 200 different types of cancer,

four of which—breast, lung, colorectal, and prostate—account for over half of all new

cases (Jemal et al., 2003, Cancer J. Clin. 53:5-26).
 
        Folate or 1 (FOLR1), also known as Folate Receptor-alpha, or Folate

Binding Protein, is an N-glycosylated protein expressed on the plasma membrane of

cells. FOLR1 has a high affinity for folic acid and for l reduced folic acid

derivatives.   FOLR1   mediates   delivery   of   the   physiological   folate,   5-

methyltetrahydrofolate, to the interior of cells.
 
         FOLR1 is overexpressed in a vast majority of ovarian cancers, as well as in



many e, endometrial, pancreatic, renal,  lung, and breast cancers, while the

expression of FOLR1 on normal tissues is restricted to the apical membrane of epithelial

cells in the kidney proximal tubules, alveolar pneumocytes of the lung, bladder, testes,

choroid plexus, and thyroid an SD, et al., Cancer Res 52: 3396-3401 (1992);

Antony AC, Annu Rev

[TEXT CONTINUES ON PAGE 2]

- 1a -

Nutr 16:  501-521  ; Kalli KR, et a1.  Gynecol Oncol 108:  619—626 (2008)).   This

expression pattern of FOLRl makes it a desirable target for FOLRl —directed cancer therapy.
 
         Because ovarian cancer is typically asymptomatic until advanced stage, it is often

diagnosed at a late stage and has poor prognosis when treated with currently ble

procedures, typically chemotherapeutic drugs after al de-bulking (von Gruenigen V et

al., Cancer 112: 2221-2227 (2008); Ayhan A et al., Am J Obstet Gynecol 196: 81 e81-86

(2007);  Harry VN et 61]., Obstet Gynecol Surv 64: 548-560 ).  Thus, there is a clear

unmet l need for more effective therapeutics for ovarian cancers.
 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

        The present invention is based on the discovery of a dynamic range of expression of

FOLRI in tumor tissue and the discovery that tumors with increased levels of FOLRl

expression are more responsive to treatment with anti-FOLRl antibodies or anti-FOLRl

immunoconjugates.   The present invention advantageously permits treatment of patients

who have a greater  likelihood of responding to treatment by  administering therapeutic

agents, i.e., anti-FOLRl antibodies or anti-FOLRl immunoconjugates, to patients who are

found to have an increased expression level of FOLRl.
 
         The present ion provides a method for identifying a subject pre-disposed to

respond favorably to a Folate Receptor 1 (FOLRl)—targeting anti-cancer therapeutic, the

method comprising detecting FOLRl expression in a tissue sample from the subject.
 
         The present invention also provides a method for increasing the likelihood of

effectiveness of a cancer treatment, the method comprising administering a therapeutically

effective dose of a FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer eutic to a subject, n FOLRI

expression in a tissue sample from the subject has been found to be sed.
 
         The present invention also provides a method for predicting effectiveness of a low—

dose cancer ent, the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective dose

of a FOLRl—targeting anti-cancer therapeutic to a subject, n said subject has been

found to have increased expression of FOLRl in a sample.
 
         In one embodiment, the methods are directed to n carcinoma, non-small cell

lung adenocarcinoma ding bronchioloalveolar carcinoma), renal carcinomas,  and

endometrial carcinomas.
 
         In one embodiment, the extent and uniformity of FOLRI sion is detected by

immunohistochemistry (IHC), ﬂow cytometry, or nucleic acid hybridization.  in r

embodiment, the level of FOLRl expression is detected by immunohistochemistry. Non-

limiting examples of IHC include IHC methods that distinguish between varying levels of

FOLRI and calibrated IHC methods, such as those described herein.  The FOLRl

sion can be scored using an appropriate scoréng , including but not limited to

the scoring methods bed herein. For example, FOLRI expression can be scored using

a calibrated IHC method that includes a range  of 0, 1, 2, 3, and 3+ for staining intensity

with 0 being the lowest level of staining intensity and 3+ being the highest level of staining

intensity.  Alternatively or additionally, FOLRI sion can be scored using a ated

IHC method that includes a staining uniformity that ranges from focal (<25% of cells

stained),  to  heterogeneous (25-75%  of cells  stained), to homogenous (>75%  of cells

stained), where focal staining is the least uniform staining and homogeneous is the most

uniform staining.
 
         In a further embodiment, the FOLRI expression in a sample (e.g., a tumor tissue

) is ed and ed to one or more reference samples and the FOLRl

expression in the tissue sample from a subject tumor, xenograft tumor, or cell line has a

FOLRI speciﬁc score ating to extent and uniformity of expression as compared to the

one or more reference samples.  In various examples, a tissue sample or cell with a level 1,

2, 3 or 3+ FOLRl staining ity with a homogeneous staining pattern is considered to

have increased FOLRl expression; a tissue sample or cell with a level 3 FOLRl staining

intensity with heterogeneous or focal staining patterns is considered to have increased

FOLRl expression. In another embodiment the FOLRI expression in a sample is measured

and compared to one or more reference samples to identify a comparable level of ng.
 
 In one embodiment, the reference sample has a pre-assigned IHC score and/or a pre-

determined antigen per cell (or ABC) number and the n or ABC number for the

sample tissue can be determined based on the comparison.
 
         In one embodiment, the FOLRl expression in a sample (e.g., a tumor tissue sample)

is measured and compared to one or more control samples and the FOLRl expression in the

tissue sample from a subject tumor, xenograft tumor, or cell line has a FOLRl specific score

correlating to extent and uniformity of expression as compared to the one or more control

samples.   In one embodiment, the FOLRl  expression in the sample is compared to a

negative control sample which demonstrates no or  low detectable FOLRI expression.  In

another embodiment, the FGLR'E expression in the sample is compared to a ve control

sample having sed FOLRl expressinn {level i, 2, 3. or 3+). In some embodin‘ien‘ts, the

control samples include, but are not limited in a, SW2, SWéZO, T47D, IGRG‘V’J,

300,19 FRI, i-Ielga, or KB cells.  In particular embodir‘nents, the control samples include

cells or cell pellets from cells transfected with folate receptor (e.g., 300.19 FRl).
 
         In  one  embodiment,  the FOLRl-targeting  anti-cancer therapeutic  is a FOLRI

immunoconjugate.  In one embodiment, the immunoconjugate ses an anti-FOLRI

dy, a linker, and a cytotoxin.
 
         In a further ment, the anti-FOLRI  antibody is huMOVl9.   In another

ment, the linker is selected from the group consisting of a cleavable linker, a non~

cleavable linker, a hydrophilic linker, and a dicarboxylic acid based linker.  in another

embodiment, the linker is selected from the group consisting: N—succinimidyl 4-(2—

pyridyldithio)pentanoate (SPP) or   N—succinimidyl yridyldithio)-2—sulfopentanoate

(sulfo—SPP); inimidyl 4-(2-pyn'dyldithio)butanoate (SPDB) or N-succinimidyl 4-(2—

pyridyldithio)-2—sulfobutanoate   (sulfo-SPDB);   N—succinimidyl   4-(maleimidomethyl)

cyclohexanecarboxylate     (SMCC);     N—sulfosuccinimidyl     4-(maleimidomethyl)

cyclohexanecarboxylate    (sulfoSMCC);    N—succinimidyl(iodoacetyl)-aminobenzoate

(SIAB);   and   N—succinimidyl—[(N-maleimidopropionamido)—tetraethyleneglycol]   ester

(NHS-PEG4-maleimide).   In another embodiment, the linker is N—succinimidyl 4-(2-

pyridyldithio)-2—sulfobutanoate (sulfo-SPDB).  In r embodiment, the cytotoxic agent

is   selected   from   the   group   consisting   of  a  maytansinoid,   maytansinoid   analog,

benzodiazepine, taxoid, CC—1065, CC-1065 analog, mycin, duocarmycin analog,

calicheamicin,  dolastatin,  dolastatin  analog,  auristatin,  tomaymycin  derivative,  and

leptomycin derivative or a prodrug of the agent.  In another embodiment, the cytotoxic

agent is a maytansinoid.  In another embodiment, the cytotoxic agent is N(2')-deacetyl-

N(2')—(3 -mercapto- 1 opyl)-maytansine or deacetyl-NZ-(4-mercapto—4-methyl— l -

oxopentyl)—maytansine.  In another embodiment, the xic agent is N(2')-deacetyl-N2—

(4-mercaptomethyl-l-oxopentyl)—maytansine  (DM4).   In a further ment,  the

immunoconjugate comprises the antibody HUMOV19, sulfo-SPDB, and DM4 (IMGN853).
 
         The invention is also directed to a kit for measuring FOLRI expression in a subject

comprising a FOLRl detection reagent, and instructions for use.  In one embodiment, the

FOLRl detection reagent comprises a FOLRl binding peptide, protein or a molecular probe

(i.e. nucleic acid).  In another embodiment, the FOLRl detection reagent is an anti-FOLRI

antibody.  In another embodiment, the kit r ses a ary antibody which

binds the anti-FOLRl  dy.   In one  embodiment the antibody is included at a

concentration of 0.5  to  7.5  ug/ml,  desirably  0.9  to  3.8  +/-  0.5  ug/ml.   In various

embodiments, the antibody is included at a concentration of 1.0 +/— 0.5 ug/ml, 1.5 +/— 0.5

ug/ml, 1.9 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 2.5 +/— 0.5 ug/ml, 3.0 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 3.5 +/- 0.5 pig/ml, 3.8 +/- 0.5

ug/ml, or up to 4.2 ug/ml. In another embodiment, the antibody is ed in concentrated

solution with instructions for ons to achieve a ﬁnal concentration of 0.9 to 3.8 +/— 0.5

rig/ml.  In another embodiment, the kit further comprises a detection reagent selected from

the group consisting of: an enzyme, a ﬂuorophore, a radioactive label, and a luminophore.
 
 In another embodiment, the detection reagent is selected from the group consisting of:

biotin, digo-xigenin, ﬂuorescein, tritium, and ine.
 
         The kit can also include instructions for detection and scoring of FOLRl expression.
 
 The kit can also e control or reference samples.  Non-limiting examples of control or

reference samples include tissue samples, cell pellets or cells.  The controi or reference

samples may be derived from tissue culture cell lines (normal or tumor),  normal tissue

(normal control) or tumor tissues (positive control) samples.  Exemplary cell lines include

SW620, T47D, IGROV-l, HELA, KB, JEG-3 and cell lines stably or ently transfected

with an expression vector that expresses FOLRl (e.g., 300.19FR1). Exemplary tissues that

detection methods are

may be used as normal reference tissues in the FOLRl expression

described herein and include normal lung, salivary gland, and pancreas.
 
         The invention is also directed to a method for identifying a cancer likely to respond

to an anti-FOLRl antibody, or anti-FOLRl immunoconjugate comprising: (a) contacting a

biological sample comprising cells from said cancer with an agent that binds FOLRl protein

on the cell surface; (b)detecting g of said agent that binds FOLRl n on the cell

surface of said biological sample of (a); (c)  assigning a score to said binding of step (b),

wherein said score is assigned based on ison to one or more reference samples; and

(d) comparing said score in step (c) to the score of a reference tissue or cell, wherein a score

for said cancer FOLRl level that is greater than the score for a normal or low P‘O'LRI

sing reference sample or a score for said cancer FOLRl level that is equal to or

greater than the score for a high FOLRl expressing reference sample fies said cancer

as likely to respond to an anti—FOLRI  antibody or anti-FOLRl  immunoconjugate.   In

certain embodiments, the cancer is ovarian or lung cancer.
 
         The invention is also ed to a method of identifying a tumor as sensitive to

treatment with an anti-FOLRI antibody, or anti—FOLRI immunoconjugate, said method

comprising: (a) measuring the level of FOLRI expression in a tumor tissue sample obtained

from said tumor, wherein said ing comprises the use of a detection method that

guishes between staining intensity or staining uniformity in a FOLRI  expressing

cancer sample as compared to staining intensity or staining uniformity in one or more

reference samples; (b) determining a FOLRI staining intensity score for said tumor tissue

; and (c) ing the FOLRI ng intensity score determined in step (b) to a

relative value determined by measuring FOLRI protein expression in at least one nce

sample, wherein said at least one reference sample is a tissue, cell, or cell pellet sample

which is not sensitive to treatment with an  anti—FOLRI  antibody,  or anti-FOLRl

immunoconjugate,  and  wherein  a  FOLRI  staining  intensity  score  for  said  sample

determined in step (b) that is higher than said relative value identiﬁes said tumor as being

sensitive to treatment with an anti—FOLRl dy, or anti—FOLRI immunoconjugate.  In

certain embodiments, the detection method is performed manually or using an automated

system. In one embodiment, the detection method is IHC. In another embodiment, the IHC

is calibrated IHC that can distinguish different levels of FOLRl expression.
 
         The invention is also directed to a method of optimizing a therapeutic regimen with

an anti-FOLRI dy or an anti-FOLRI immunoconjugate for a subject having lung or

ovarian cancer, said method comprising: (a) contacting said sample from said subject with

an antibody that speciﬁcally binds cell surface FOLRI; (b) éng the binding of said

antibody in (a) to said cell surface FOLRl in said sample using a detection method that can

distinguish between staining intensity or staining uniformity in a FOLRI expressing cancer

sample as compared to staining intensity or staining uniformity in one or more reference

samples and assigning a staining score to said sample; and (c) administering a high dose of

an anti-FOLRl immunoconjugate when the score in step (b) is less than or equal to the

score for a normal or low FOLRl expressing reference sample or administering a low dose

of an anti—FOLRI immunoconjugate when the score is r than the score for a normal or

low FOLRl expressing reference sample.
 
         The ion is also directed to a method of detecting the expression of cell surface

FOLRl on cancer cells in a tumor tissue sample from a subject, said method comprising: (a)

obtaining tumor tissue sample, wherein said cancer sample is formalin-ﬁxed parafﬁn

embedded; (b) ting said sample with an antibody that cally binds cell surface

FOLR1; (c) measuring the binding of said antibody in (b) to said cell surface FOLR1

in said tumor tissue sample using a detection method that can distinguish between

staining intensity or staining uniformity in a FOLR1 expressing cancer sample as

compared to staining intensity or staining uniformity in one or more reference

samples; and (d) assigning a FOLR1 expression score to said FOLR1 after comparing

the level of cell surface FOLR1 staining intensity or staining uniformity in said tumor

tissue sample to one or more reference samples.
 
         The invention is also directed to a method of identifying a subject having a

lung or ovarian cancer as likely to respond to a low dose anti-FOLR1 antibody or

anti-FOLR1 immunoconjugate treatment regimen, said method comprising: (a)

contacting a biological sample comprising cells from said n or lung cancer with

an agent that binds cell surface FOLR1 protein; (b) detecting binding of said agent to

said ical sample of (a);  (c) assigning a score to said binding of step (b),

wherein said score is assigned based on comparison to one or more reference samples;

and (d) comparing said score in step (c) to the score of a reference tissue or cell,

n a score for said ovarian or lung cancer FOLR1 level that is greater than the

score for a normal or low FOLR1 expressing reference sample or a score for said

ovarian or lung cancer FOLR1 level that is equal to or greater than the score for a

high FOLR1 expressing reference sample identifies said ovarian or lung cancer as

likely   to   d   to   a   low   dose   anti-FOLR1   antibody   or   anti-FOLR1

conjugate.    In  certain  embodiments,  the  method  further  comprises

stering  a  therapeutically  ive  amount  of  a  zed  anti-FOLR1

antibody or an anti-FOLR1 conjugate to said subject.

[0023a]       Definitions of the specific embodiments of the ion as claimed herein

follow.

[0023b]       According to a first embodiment of the ion, there is provided a method

of identifying a tumor as sensitive to treatment with an anti-Folate Receptor 1

(FOLR1) antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof, the method comprising:

(a)      measuring the level of FOLR1 expression in a tumor tissue sample

obtained from the tumor, wherein the measuring comprises the use of a detection

method that distinguishes between ng intensity and ng uniformity in a

FOLR1-expressing cancer sample as compared to staining intensity and staining

uniformity in one or more reference samples;



(b)     determining a FOLR1 staining intensity score for the tumor tissue

sample; and

(c)      comparing the FOLR1 staining intensity score determined in step (b) to

a reference value determined by measuring FOLR1 protein expression in at least one

reference sample, wherein the at least one reference sample is a , cell, or cell

pellet sample which is not sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLR1 antibody or

antigen binding fragment f, wherein a FOLR1 staining ity score for the

tumor tissue sample ined in step (b) that is higher than the reference value

identifies the tumor as being sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLR1 antibody or

n binding fragment thereof, and wherein the anti-FOLR1 antibody or antigen

binding fragment thereof for treatment comprises (i) a heavy chain (HC) CDR1

comprising the amino acid sequence GYFMN (SEQ ID NO:6); a HC CDR2

comprising the amino acid sequence RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ ID NO:7); and

a HC CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence YDGSRAMDY (SEQ ID NO:8)

and  (ii)  a  light  chain  (LC)  CDR1  comprising  the  amino  acid  sequence

KASQSVSFAGTSLMH (SEQ ID NO:9); a LC CDR2 comprising the amino acid

sequence RASNLEA (SEQ ID NO:10); and a LC CDR3 comprising the amino acid

sequence QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID NO:11).

[0023c]       ing to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a

method of identifying a tumor as sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLR1

immunoconjugate, the method comprising:

(a)      measuring the level of FOLR1 sion in a tumor tissue sample

obtained from the tumor, wherein the measuring comprises the use of a detection

method that distinguishes between staining intensity and staining mity in a

FOLR1 expressing cancer sample as compared to staining ity and staining

uniformity in one or more reference samples;

(b)     ining a FOLR1 staining intensity score for the tumor tissue

sample; and

(c)      comparing the FOLR1 staining intensity score determined in step (b) to

a nce value determined by measuring FOLR1 protein expression in at least one

reference sample, wherein the at least one reference sample is a tissue, cell, or cell

pellet   sample   which   is   not   sensitive   to   treatment   with   an   anti-FOLR1

immunoconjugate, wherein a FOLR1 staining intensity score for the tumor tissue

sample determined in step (b) that is higher than the reference value identifies the

tumor as being sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLR1 immunoconjugate, wherein

the anti-FOLR1 immunoconjugate for treatment has the formula (A) – (L) – (C),

wherein:

(A) comprises an anti-FOLR1 antibody or antigen binding fragment

thereof sing (i) a HC CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence GYFMN

(SEQ  ID  NO:6);  a  HC  CDR2  comprising  the  amino  acid  sequence

RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ ID NO:7); and a HC CDR3 comprising the amino

acid sequence MDY (SEQ ID NO:8) and (ii) a LC CDR1 comprising the

amino acid sequence KASQSVSFAGTSLMH (SEQ ID NO:9); a LC CDR2

comprising the amino acid sequence RASNLEA (SEQ ID NO:10); and a LC CDR3

comprising the amino acid sequence QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID NO:11), (L) comprises a

linker, (C) comprises a cytotoxic agent, and wherein (L) links (A) to (C).
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DRAWINGS

        Figure 1. Manual ng Method: Anti -FOLR1 antibodies detect FOLR1

sion in transfected cells.  300.19 cells were transfected with a polynucleotide

that encodes human FOLR1.   FOLR1 n expression was detected using the

murine antibody BN3.2. Smith AE et al, Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2007 Oct;26(5):281 -

        Figure 2.  Manual Staining Method: Anti-FOLR1 dies can distinguish

different levels of FOLR1 expression.  Antibody BN3.2 was used to detect FOLR1

expression in various xenograft cells. The limit of detection for the BN3.2 dy

was approximately 4000 antibodies bound per cell (ABC).
 
 [TEXT CONTINUES ON PAGE 8]

        Figure  3.   Manual  Staining  Method:  Anti-FOLRl  antibodies  can  distinguish

different levels of FOLRI expression in tissue samples.  BN3.2 was used to detect FOLRl

expression in both ovarian tumors (A), as well as non-small cell lung cancer tumors (B).
 
         Figure 4.  Manual Staining Method: Uniform FOLRl expression in ovarian and

NSCLC tumors. FOLRl expression was high in many of the ovaréan carcinomas, as well as

lung adenocarcinomas and bronchioloalveolar carcinomas tested.  The ty of n

carcinoma samples had the highest intensity staining in serous or endometrioid cells.  In the

NSCLC tumors, the highest ABC values were found in bronchioloalveolar carcinoma and

papillary adenocarcinoma.
 
         Figure 5.  Manual Staining Method: FOLRl expression is generally conﬁned to the

membrane of NSCLC cells.  High resolution copy revealed that the majority of

FOLRl staining was restricted to the membrane in NSCLC tumors.
 
         Figure 6.  Manual Staining Method: FOLRl expression is lly d to the

membrane of ovarian cancer cells. High resolution microscopy revealed that the majority of

FOLRl staining was restricted to the ne in ovarian tumors.
 
         Figure 7.   In vivo efﬁcacy of huMovl9-targeted conjugates in a KB xenograft

model.  FOLRl-targeting cleavable conjugate huMovl9-SPDB—DM4 (B) in comparison

with  non-FOLRl—targeting  huC242-SPDB-DM4  (D),  and  eavable  conjugate

huMovl9-PEG4-Mal-DM4 (C) in comparison with non-targeting huC242-PEG4Mal-DM4

(B) were tested using an established xenograft model of KB cells implanted subcutaneous

into SCID mice.  Targeting of FOLRl by huMov19 resulted in signiﬁcant ion in

mean tumor volume.
 
         Figure 8.  Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in OVCAR—3

human ovarian carcinoma xenografts. Mice were treated with a single intravenous ion

of 3 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 9. Dose—response umor ty of IMGN853 treatment in lGROV—l

human ovarian carcinoma xenografts. Mice were treated with a single intravenous injection

of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 10.  Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in OV-90

human ovarian carcinoma xenografts. Mice were treated with a single intravenous injection

of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 11.  Dose-response anti—tumor ty of 3 treatment in SKOV—3

human ovarian carcinoma xenografts. Mice were treated with a single enous injection

of 3 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of animals received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure 12.  Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in KB human

cervical adenocarcinoma xenografts.  Mice were treated with a single intravenous injection

of IMGN853 at 1.0, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of s received a single

intravenous injection of PBS.
 
         Figure  13.  Automated  Staining  Methods:  Representative  Photographs  and

Histograms depicting FOLRl Expression in Cell Lines by IHC and Flow Cytometry.
 
 SW620, T47D, Igrov-l, 300.19/FR1, HeLa, and KB cells were all scored for FOLRl

staining intensity and uniformity.   SWti30 and IGROV-l  cells were scored 1—3 hetero,

T47D was scored 1-2 hetero, HeLa was scored 2-3 hetero, while 300.19/FR1 and KB were

scored 3 homo.
 
         Figure 14. Automated Staining Methods: Representative FOLR] Staining in Serous

Ovarian Cancer.  Staining patterns demonstrating 3 homo, 2-3 homo, 2 homo, and 2 hetero

staining are shown for tissue ns from serous ovarian cancer by IHC.

[0038}        Figure  15.   Automated  Staining  Methods:  Representative FOLRl  Staining  in

Endometrioid Ovarian Cancer.  Staining patterns demonstrating 3 homo, 2—3 homo, 3 focal,

and 1-2 hetero staining are shown for tissue sections from endometroid cancer by IHC.
 
         Figure  16.   Automated  Staining  Methods:  entative FOLRl  Staining  in

NSCLC of the  arcinoma  Subtype  (excluding  ioloalveolar  carcinomas).
 
 Staining patterns demonstrating 3 homo, 2-3 homo, 2 hetero, 2 homo, and 1-2 hetero

staining are shown for tissue sections from non-small cell lung cancer, adenocarcinoma

subtype by IHC.

{0040}        Figure  17.   Automated  Staining  Methods:  Representative FOLRl  Staining  in

trial Adenocarcinoma.  Staining patterns demonstrating 3 hetero, 2 hetero, and 1

hetero staining are shown for tissue sections from endometrial adenocarcinoma by IHC.

{0041}        Figure 18.  Automated Staining Methods: Representative FOLRl Staining in Renal

Clear Cell Carcinoma.  Staining patterns demonstrating 2 homo, 2 hetero, and l heteto

staining are shown for tissue sections from renal cell cancer by IHC.

tests;        Figure 19.  The cytotoxic aetivity of iMGNSiiB in vitro.  Five Fiﬁil‘ﬁwpositive eeli

lines (KB? iGROV—l, IE i~3, SKOVG and OVCAR.~3} and two FOLRiwnegative cell, tines

iwa and SW2) were analyzed for their sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of

liviGN8530 Cells were d to il‘VKiNSSB {solid line) or to lMGNtiSB plus 0.5 nM

unconingated iinMo'Vl9 (M9346A) (dashed iine) for 5 days, and the eeil survival was

determined by WSlmg-based assay, Representative data are shown, The percent of surviving

eelis was d t base it} iogaritlnn Of'ii‘itj concentration of EMGN853.

rests}        Figure 20.  The sensitivity of‘tlie linQRl-positive cell lines to EMGNXSB versus the

level of itiOLRi expression.  Potency and speciﬁcity of EMGN853 was anaiyzed against

FGLRl—positive cell lines with a wide range of FOLRl  expression.   Cell lines were

incubated Win lMGN853 and KB, igi'oV—L and 3eg~3 were sneeifieaily sensitive to

iMGNts‘Sfi  While  unconjugated huMoVIS} (M9346A)  snowed decreased activity of the

ate.   Skew—3  and  ()V‘earﬁ  were  not  sensitiVe to EMGNSSS  and  unconjugaled

huMovl?) A) did not change the activity of the conjugate.

gss4t;        Figure 21.  Automated Staining Methods: n Carcinoma Xenograft etiieaey

models stained for FOLRl. ng patients trating 1:3 hetero (Swat '3), i—3 homo

(lgrov i), l~2 hetero (CV 90) and negative (SKOV 3:) are shown for tissue sections from

ovarian cancer xenografts by Eli—1C.

insist        Figure ‘22.   Automated Staining Methods: Mouse  Xenograft Modeisi   ng

patterns for FOLRl  in xei'iograi‘ts for NSCLC (A), Entionietriuni Carcinoma (B) and

Cervical Carcinoma (C) Ceil Lines are shown. NSCLC samples demonstrated 23 homo or

2 homo staining,  endometrinni oma demonstrated 2  hetero/3  focal  staining,  and

cervical carcinoma demonstrated 3 homo staining.

tests}        ,li'ig‘are 23.  Assay control tissues automated staining guide.  Staining patterns for

negative (esophagus ti} and positive control samples (salivary gland L2 hetero? lung 21

homo, pancreas 3 home) are shown as determined by automated EHC.

{9347;        Figure- 34. Tumor tissues automated staining guide. Representative staining patterns

for ievei 3,,  {eve}. 2, and level  i  ng are shown on control tissue as detennined by

automated iii-iii.

{sets}        Figure  25.   Turner  tissues  automated  staining  guide,   Representative  ng

patterns for level 3?, level, 2, and Eevei  l/negative staining are shown. on control tissue as

determined by automated ii-lC.
 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION

{00419}          The  present  inventien  presides  methods  for  increasing  the  efﬁcacy  of er  the

hood of response to the treatment of cancers characterised by the everexpressien of

FOLRI. The present invention is based on the discovery of a dynamic range of expression

of FOLRE in tumor tissue as compared to nerrnai tissue and the discovery that tumors with

sed. Eevels nf FOLK} expression are more sive te treatment with anti—FOLK}

antibodies or ‘OlgRi irnmunoconjugate *,   We have else discovered differences in

sensitity and detection of c ranges between ated and manual methods. Kits

comprising one or more reagents useful fer practicing the methods of the invention are

further provided

1.        Definitions

        To facilitate an understanding of the present invention, a number of terms and

phrases are deﬁned below.

{0051}        The terms "human folate receptor 1" or "FOLRI", as used herein, refers to any

native human FOLRI, unless otherwise indicated. The term "FOLRI" encompasses "full-

length," unprocessed FOLR] as well as any form of FOLRl that results from processing

within the cell. The term also asses naturally occurring variants of FOLRl, e.g.,

splice variants, allelic ts and ms. The FOLRI polypeptides described herein can

be isolated from a variety of sources, such as from human tissue types or from another

source, or prepared by recombinant or synthetic methods.  Examples of FOLRI sequences

include,  but  are  not  limited to NCBI  reference  s  P15328,  NP_001092242.1,

AAX292681, AAXBH 19.}, Ni§>g057937.l, and NP_O57936.1, and those shown in SEQ iii)

NOS: 1 and 2.
 
         The term “increased expression" of FOLRI  refers to a sample which contains

elevated levels of FOLRl expression.  In one example, the FOLRI expression is measured

by IHC and given a staining intensity score or a staining uniformity score by comparison to

controls (e.g., ated controls)  exhibiting deﬁned scores (e.g. an intensity score of 3 is

given to the test sample if the intensity is comparable to the level 3 calibrated l or an

intensity of 2 is given to the test sample if the intensity is comparable to the level 2

calibrated  control).   For  example,   a  score  of  1,  2,  3,  or  3+  or  greater  by

immunohistochemistry indicates an increased expression of FOLRI. A staining uniformity

that is heterogeneous or homogeneous is also indicative of increased FOLRI expression.

“11.,

The staining iretensity and ng uniformity scores can be used alone or in combination

(e.g., 2 homo, 2 hetero, 3 homo, 3 hetero, etc.).  In another example, an increase in FOLRI

sion can be determined by detection of an increase of at least 2-fold, at least 3-fold, or

at least 5-fold) relative to control values (e.g., expression level in a tissue or cell from a

subject without cancer or with a cancer that does not have elevated FOLRI ).
 
         A "reference sample" can be used to correlate and compare the results ed in

the methods of the invention from a test sample. Reference samples can be cells (e.g., cell

lines,  cell  pellets)  or tissue.   The FOLRl levels  in the "reference sample" may be an

absolute or relative amount, a range of amount, a minimum and/or maximum amount, a

mean amount, and/or a median amount of FOLRI. The diagnostic methods of the invention

involve a comparison between expression levels of FOLRI in a test sample and a "reference

value."  In some embodiments, the reference value is the expression level of the FOLRl in a

reference sample. A reference value may be a predetermined value and may also be

determined from reference samples (e.g., control biological samples) tested in parallel with

the test samples. A nce value can be a single cut—off value, such as a median or mean

or a range of , such as a conﬁdence interval.  Reference values can be established for

various subgroups of duals, such as individuals predisposed to cancer, individuals

having early or late stage cancer, male and/or female individuals, or individuals oing

cancer therapy. Examples of normal reference samples or values and positive reference

samples or values are described herein.
 
         In some embodiments, the reference sample is a sample from a healthy tissue, in

ular a corresponding tissue which is not affected by cancer.  These types of reference

samples are referred to as ve control samples.  In other embodiments, the nce

sample is a sample from a tumor tissue that expresses FOLRl.  These types of reference

samples are referred to as positive control samples.  Positivie control samples can also be

used as a comparative indicator for the uniformity (hetero versus homo) and/or degree (1, 2,

3, 3+) of ng ity, which correlates with the level of FOLRl expression.  Positive

control comparative samples are also referred to as calibrated reference samples which

demonstrate a dynamic range of staining intensity or uniformity. As shown in Examples 1-

9, non FOLRl-expressing reference samples include human esophagus tissue; low FOLRI

nce includes salivary gland (particularly the intercalated ducts) and lung (particularly

respiratory epithelium) tissue; and high expressing tissue includes the pancreas

cularly ductal cells).  For cell lines, low expressors include, but are not limited to

-12...
 
 OVCAR3 and T471), moderate expressers include, but are not limited in SW‘tSZi), i lRUX/ll,

515.63, and high expressers include, but are not d to, KB and EGROVE.  Particularly

desirable positive high FOLK} nce is a cell line stably or transiently transt‘eeted with

Folate Receptor 1 (e.g., 300.19/FR1).  Appropriate positive and negative reference levels of

FOLRl for a particular cancer, may be determined by measuring levels of FOLRl in one or

more appropriate subjects, and such reference levels may be tailored to speciﬁc populations

of subjects (e.g., a reference level may be age-matched so that comparisons may be made

between FOLRl levels in samples from subjects of a certain age and reference levels for a

particular disease state, phenotype, or lack thereof in a n age .  Such reference

levels may also be tailored to speciﬁc techniques that are used to measure levels of FOLRl

in biological samples (e.g., immunoassays, etc.), where the levels of FOLRl may differ

based on the speciﬁc technique that is used.
 
         The term "primary antibody" herein refers to an antibody that binds speciﬁcally to

the target protein antigen in a tissue sample. A primary antibody is lly the ﬁrst

dy used in an histochemical (IHC) procedure.  In one embodiment, the

primary antibody is the only antibody used in an IHC procedure. The term "secondary

antibody" herein refers to an antibody that binds speciﬁcally to a primary antibody, thereby

forming a bridge n the primary antibody and a uent reagent, if any. The

secondary antibody is generally the second antibody used in an immunohistochemical

procedure.

{9956}        A "sample" or "biological sample" of the present invention is of biological origin, in

speciﬁc embodiments, such as from eukaryotic organisms.  In preferred embodiments, the

sample is a human sample, but animal samples may also be used in the practice of the

invention. Non-limiting sources of a sample for use in the present invention include solid

tissue, biopsy aspirates, ascites, ﬂuidic extracts, blood, plasma, serum, spinal ﬂuid, lymph

ﬂuid, the external sections of the skin, respiratory, intestinal, and genitourinary tracts, tears,

saliva, milk, , organs, cell cultures and/or cell e constituents, for example. The

present invention is particularly useful for cancer samples which generally se solid

tissue samples, or other bodily ﬂuids such as ascites, where the amount of available material

is small. The method can be used to examine an aspect of expression of FOLRl or a state of

a sample, including, but not d to, comparing different types of cells or tissues,

ing different pmental , and detecting or determining the presence and/or

type of disease or abnormality.
 
         For the purposes herein, a "section" of a tissue sample refers to a single part or piece

of a tissue  sample,  e.g.  a thin  slice of tissue  or  cells  cut from a tissue  sample.  It  is

understood that multiple sections of tissue samples may be taken and subjected to analysis

according to the present invention. In some cases, the selected portion or section of tissue

comprises a homogeneous population of cells. In other cases, the selected portion comprises

a region of tissue, e.g. the lumen as a non-limiting example. The ed n can be

small as one cell or two cells, or could represent néany thousands of cells, for example. In

most cases, the collection of cells is important, and while the ion has been bed

for use in the detection of cellular components, the method may also be used for detecting

non-cellular components of an sm (e.g. soluble components in the blood as a non—

limiting example).

{0058]        By "correlate" or "correlating" is meant comparing, in any way, the performance

and/0r results of a ﬁrst analysis with the performance and/or results of a second analysis.
 
 For example, one may use the results of a ﬁrst analysis in carrying out the second analysis

and/or one may use the results of a ﬁrst analysis to determine whether a second analysis

should be performed and/or one may compare the results of a ﬁrst analysis with the results

of a second analysis.  In one embodiment, increased expression of FOLRl correlates with

increased likelihood of effectiveness of a FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer therapy.
 
 FREQ}       The term "antibody" means an immunoglobulin molecule that izes and

speciﬁcally  binds  to  a target,  such  as  a protein,  polypeptide,  peptide,  carbohydrate,

polynucleotide,  lipid,  or  combinations  of the  foregoing  through at least  one  antigen

recognition site Wéthin the le region of the immunoglobulin molecule.   As used

herein, the term “antibody” encompasses intact polyclonal antibodies, intact monoclonal

dies, antibody fragments (such as Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, and Fv fragments), single chain

Fv (scFv) mutants, multispeciﬁc antibodies such as bispeciﬁc antibodies generated from at

least two intact antibodies, chimeric antibodies, humanized dies, human dies,

fusion proteins sing an antigen determination portion of an antibody, and any other

modified immunoglobulin molecule comprising an antigen recognition site so long as the

antibodies exhibit the d biological activity. An antibody can be of any the five major

classes of immunoglobulins: EgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, or sses (isotypes) thereof

(e.g. IgGl, lgGZ, IgG3, lgG4, IgAl and IgA2), based on the identity of their heavy-chain

constant domains ed to as alpha, delta, epsilon, gamma, and mu, resFectively.  The

different s of immunoglobulins have different and well known subunit structures and

three~dimensional  conﬁgurations.   Antibodies  can  be  naked  or  conjugated  to  other

molecules such as toxins, radioisotopes, etc.

{0060}        A ing" antibody or an "antagonist" antibody is one which inhibits or reduces

biological activity of the antigen it binds, such as FOLRl. In a certain ment blocking

dies or antagonist antibodies substantially or tely t the biological activity

of the antigen.  bly, the biological activity is reduced by 10%, 20%, 30%, 50%, 70%,

80%, 90%, 95%, or even 100%.

{006;}        The term "anti-FOLRI antibody" or "an antibody that binds to FOLRl" refers to an

antibody that is capable of binding FOLRl with ent afﬁnity such that the antibody is

useful as a diagnostic and/or therapeutic agent in targeting FOLRl. The extent of binding of

an anti-FOLRl antibody to an unrelated, non—FOLRl protein is less than about 10% of

binding of the antibody to FOLRl as measured, e.g., by a radioimmunoassay (RIA). In

certain embodiments, an antibody that binds to FOLRl has a dissociation constant (Kd) of

:1 nM, 5100 nM, 510 nM, 51 nM, or 50.1 nM.  Examples of anti-FOLRI antibodies are

known in the art and are disclosed in US Appl. Pub. No. 2012/0009181, which is herein

incorporated by reference.
 
         The term "antibody fragment" refers to a portion of an intact antibody and refers to

the antigenic determining variable regions of an intact antibody.  Examples of antibody

fragments include, but are not limited to Fab, Fab', 2, and Fv fragments, linear

antibodies,  single chain antibodies,  and multispecifrc dies formed from antibody

fragments.

{0063]        A "monoclonal antibody" refers to a homogeneous antibody population involved in

the highly speciﬁc recognition and binding of a single antigenic inant, or epitope.
 
 This is in contrast to polyclonal antibodies that typically e different antibodies

directed  against  different  antigenic  determinants.    The  term  lonal  antibody”

encompasses both intact and ength monoclonal dies as well as antibody

fragments (such as Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, Fv), single chain (scFv) mutants, fusion proteins

comprising  an  antibody  portion,  and  any  other  modiﬁed  immunoglobulin  molecule

comprising an n recognition site.  Furthermore, ”monoclonal antibody" refers to such

antibodies made in any number of manners including but not limited to by hybridoma,

phage selection, recombinant expression, and transgenic animals.

{90%}       The term "epitope" or "antigenic determinant" are used interchangeably herein and

refer to that portion of an antigen capable of being recognized and specifically bound by a

particular antibody.  When the n is a polypeptide, epitopes can be formed both from

contiguous amino acids and noncontiguous amino acids juxtaposed by tertiary folding of a

protein.  Epitopes formed from contiguous amino acids are typically retained upon protein

denaturing, s epitopes formed by tertiary folding are typically lost upon protein

denaturing.  An epitope lly es at least 3, and more usually, at least 5 or 8-10

amino acids in a unique spatial conformation.
 
         "Binding affinity" generally refers to the strength of the sum total of noncovalent

interactions between a single binding site of a moiecule (e.g., an dy) and its binding

partner (e.g., an antigen). Unless indicated otherwise, as used herein, "binding afﬁnity"

refers to sic binding afﬁnity which reﬂects a 1:1 interaction between members of a

binding pair (e.g., antibody and antigen). The afﬁnity of a molecule X for its partner Y can

generally be represented by the dissociation constant (Kd). Afﬁnity can be measured by

common methods  known  in the  art,  including those  described herein.  Low-afﬁnity

antibodies generally bind antigen slowly and tend to dissociate readily, whereas high—

afﬁnity antibodies generally bind antigen faster and tend to remain bound longer. A varéety

of s of measuring g afﬁnity are known in the art, any of which can be used for

purposes of the present invention. Speciﬁc illustrative embodiments are described in the

following.
 
          "Or better" when used herein to refer to binding afﬁnity refers to a stronger binding

between a molecule and its binding partner. "Or better" when used herein refers to a

stronger binding, represented by a smaller numerical Kd value. For example, an antibody

which has an y for an n of "0.6 nM or better", the dy’s afﬁnity for the

antigen is <0.6 nM, i.e. 0.59 nM, 0.58 nM, 0.57 nM etc. or any value less than 0.6 nM.
 
         The phrase  "substantially similar,"  or  "substantially the same",  as used herein,

denotes a sufﬁciently high degree of similarity between two numeric values (generally one

associated  with  an  antibody  of  the  invention  and  the  other  associated  with  a

reference/comparator antibody)  such that one of skill in the art would consider the

difference  n  the  two  values  to  be  of little  or  no  biological  and/or  tical

signiﬁcance within the context of the biological characteristics measured by said values

(e.g., Kd values). The difference between said two values is less than about 50%, less than

about 40%, less than about 30%, less than about 20%, or less than about 10% as a function

of the value for the reference/comparator antibody.

»

{006813          A polypeptide,  antibody,  polynucleotide,  ,  cell,  or  composition which  is

"isolated" is a polypeptide, antibody, polynucleotide, vector, cell, or composition which is

in a form not found in . isolated polypeptides, antibodies, polynucleotides, vectors,

cell or compositions include those which have been puriﬁed to a degree that they are no

longer in a form in which they are found in nature. In some embodiments, an antibody,

polyaucleotide, vector, cell, or composition which is isolated is substantially pure.
 
         As used herein, "substantially pure" refers to material which is at least 50% pure

(i.e., free from contaminants), at least 90% pure, at least 95% pure, at least 98% pure, or at

least 99% pure.
 
         The term "immunoconjugate" or "conjugate" as used herein refers to a compound or

a derivative thereof that is linked to a cell g agent (i.e., an anti-FOLRl antibody or

fragment thereof) and is deﬁned by a generic a: C-L-A, wherein C = cytotoxin, L =

linker,  and A — cell  binding  agent  or  anti-FOLRl  antibody  or  antibody  nt.

lmmunoconjugates can also be deﬁned by the generic formula in reverse order: A-L-C.

[0%71]        A "linker" is any chemical moiety that is capable of linking a compound, usually a

drug, such as a maytansinoid, to a cell-binding agent such as an anti FOLRI antibody or a

fragment thereof in  a  stable,  covalent .   Linkers  can be  tible  to  or be

ntially resistant to nduced cleavage, light-induced cleavage, peptidase-induced

cleavage, esterase-induced cleavage, and disulﬁde bond cleavage, at conditions under which

the compound or the antibody remains active. Suitable linkers are well known in the art and

include, for example, disulﬁde groups, thioether groups, acid labile groups, photolabile

groups, peptidase labile groups and esterase labile groups.  Linkers also include charged

linkers, and hydrophilic forms thereof as described herein and know in the art.
 
         The terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the physiological condition

in mammals in which a population of cells are characterized by unregulated cell growth.
 
 Examples of cancer e, but are not limited to, oma, lymphoma, blastoma,

sarcoma, and leukemia.  More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell

cancer, small-cell lung cancer, non—small cell lung cancer, adenocarcinoma of the lung,

squamous  carcinoma of the  lung,  cancer of the peritoneum,  hepatocellular cancer,

gastrointestinal cancer, pancreatic , glioblastoma, cervical cancer, n cancer,

liver cancer,  bladder  cancer,  hepatoma,  breast  cancer,  colon  cancer,  colorectal  ,

endometrial or e carcinoma, salivary gland carcinoma, kidney cancer, liver cancer,

prostate , vulval cancer, thyroid cancer, hepatic carcinoma and various types of head

and neck cancers.

{0073]         "Tumor" and "neoplasm" refer to any mass of tissue that result from excessive cell

growth or proliferation, either benign (noncancerous) or malignant (cancerous) including

pre—cancerous lesions.
 
         The terms "cancer cell," "tumor cell," and grammatical equivalents refer to the total

population of cells deréved from a tumor or a pre—cancerous lesion, including both nontumorigenic

cells, which comprise the bulk of the tumor cell tion, and tumorigenic

stem cells (cancer stem cells). As used herein, the term “tumor cell” will be modiﬁed by the

term “non—tumorigenic” when referring solely to those tumor cells lacking the capacity to

renew and differentiate to distinguish those tumor cells from cancer stem cells.
 
         The term "subject" refers to any animal (e. g., a mammal), including, but not limited

to humans, non-human primates, rodents, and the like, which is to be the recipient of a

particular treatment.  Typically, the terms ct" and "patient" are used interchangeably

herein in reference to a human subject.

        stration  "in  combination with"  one  or more  further therapeutic  agents

includes simultaneous (concurrent) and consecutive administration in any order.
 
          The term "pharmaceutical formulation" refers to a preparation which is in such form

as to permit the biological activity of the active ingredient to be effective, and which

ns no additional components which are unacceptably toxic to a subject to which the

formulation would be administered. Such formulation can be sterile.
 
         An "effective amount" of an dy as disclosed herein is an amount sufﬁcient to

carry  out  a  speciﬁcally  stated  purpose.  An  "effective  amoun    can  be  determined

empirically and in a routine , in relation to the stated purpose.
 
         The term "therapeutically effective " refers to an amount of an antibody or

other drug effective to "treat" a disease or disorder in a t or mammal. In the case of

cancer, the therapeutically effective amount of the drug can reduce the number of cancer

cells; reduce the tumor size; inhibit (i.e., slow to some extent and in a certain embodiment,

stop) cancer cell inﬁltration into peripheral organs; inhibit (i.e., slow to some extent and in a

certain embodiment, stop) tumor metastasis; inhibit, to some extent, tumor growth; and/or

relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. See the

deﬁnition herein of ing". To the extent the drug can prevent growth and/or kill ng

cancer cells, it can be cytostatic and/or cytotoxic. In n ments, identiﬁcation of

-18<—

increased FOLRl levels allows for administration of sed amounts of the FOLRl-

targeting therapeutic to achieve the same therapeutic effect as seen with higher dosages. A

"prophylactically effective amount" refers to an amount effective, at dosages and for s

of time necessary, to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically but not arély,

since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease, the

prophylactically effective amount will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.
 
         The term "respond favorably" generally refers to causing a beneficial state in a

subject.  With respect to cancer treatment, the term refers to providing a therapeutic effect

on the subject.  Positive therapeutic effects in cancer can be measured in a number of ways

(See,  W.A.  Weber,  J.  Nucl.  Med.  50:lS-IOS  (2009)).   For  example,  tumor  growth

inhibition, molecular marker sion, serum marker expression, and molecular imaging

techniques can all be used to assess therapeutic y of an anti—cancer therapeutic.  With

to tumor growth inhibition, according to NCI standards, a T/C S 42% is the

respect

minimum level of anti-tumor activity. A T/C <10% is considered a high anti—tumor activity

level, with T/C (%) = Median tumor volume of the d / Median tumor volume of the

control x 100.
 
         The word "label" when used herein refers to a detectable nd or composition

which is conjugated directly or indirectly to the antibody so as to generate a "labeled"

antibody. The label can be able by itself (e.g. radioisotope labels or ﬂuorescent labels)

or,  in  the  case  of an enzymatic  label,  can  catalyze  al  alteration of a  substrate

compound or composition which is detectable.
 
         A "chemotherapeutic agent" is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of

cancer, regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include,

are  not  limited  to:  alkyating  agents,  antimetabolites,  spindle  poison  plant  alkaloids,

cytoxic/antitumor antibiotics, omerase inhibitors, dies, photosensitizers, and

kinase tors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in "targeted therapy"

and conventional chemotherapy.
 
         Terms such as ing" or "treatment" or "to treat" or "alleviating" or “to alleviate”

refer to both 1) therapeutic measures that cure, slow down, lessen symptoms of, and/or halt

progression  of a  diagnosed  pathologic  condition  or  disorder  and  2)  lactic  or

preventative measures that prevent and/or slow the development of a targeted pathologic

condition or disorder.  Thus, those in need of treatment e those already with the

disorder;  those prone to  have the disorder;  and those in whom the disorder is to be



prevented.  in certain embodiments, a t is sueeessﬁtliy "treated” for cane-er according

to the s of the present invention if the patient shows one or more of the following:

ion in eaehexia, increase in survival time, elongation in time to tumor progression,

reduction in tumor mass, reduction in tumor burden and/or a prolongation in time to tumor

metastasis, time to tumor recurrence, tumor response, eompiete response, partiai response,

stabie disease, progressive disease, progression tree survival (FPS), overali al (08),

each as measured by standards set by the Nationai Cancer institute and the US. Food and

Drug Administration for the approvai of new drugs. See Johnson et ai, (2003) 3, Che.
 
 Oneoi. 21t?):i404~i41 t.
 
          "Progression  free  survivai"  (PPS),  also  ed  to  as  or  "Time  to  Tumor

Progression" (YEP) indicates the length of time during and after treatment that the cancer

does not        Progression-free survival includes the amount of time patients have

grow.

experéenced a complete response or a partial response, as well as the amount of time

patients have experienced stable disease.
 
          "Disease free survival" (DFS) refers to the length of time during and after ent

that the patient remains free of disease.
 
          "Overall Survival" (OS) refers to a gation in life expectancy as compared to

naive or untreated individuals or patients.
 
         As used in the present disclosure and claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the"

e plural forms unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
 
         It is understood that wherever embodiments are bed herein with the language

"comprising,"  otherwise analogous embodiments described in terms of "consisting of‘

and/or "consisting essentially of" are also provided.
 
         The term "and/or" as used in a phrase such as "A and/or B” herein is ed to

e both "A and B," "A or B," "A," and "B."  Likewise, the term "and/or" as used in a

phrase  such as  "A,  B,  and/or  C"  is  intended to  encompass  each  of the  ing

ments: A, B, and C; A, B, or C; A or C; A or B; B or C; A and C; A and B; B and

C; A (alone); B (alone); and C (alone).

11.       Biological samples

        Biological samples are often ﬁxed with a ﬁxative. Aldehyde fixatives such as

formalin (formaldehyde) and glutaraldehyde are typically used. Tissue samples fixed using

other ﬁxation techniques such as alcohol immersion (Battifora and Kopinski, J. Histochem.

_20e

Cytechem. (ll-$86) 34:109.?) are also suitable. The s used may also be embedded in

n. in one embodiment, the tissue samples are both lbrmalinaﬁxed and paraffin--

embedded (PEPE).  in another embodiment, the FFPE block is hematoxylin and ecsin

d prior to selecting ene 01' more portions fer analysis in order to select speciﬁc areats)

fer the FFPE core sample.  s of preparéng tissue blocks from these particulate

specimens have been used in previous EEC studies cf varicus pregnnstic factors, and/er is

well. known to those of skill in the art (see, for example, Abbcndanzo et al, Am 3 Clin

. @990 l‘vlay;93(5):698»702; Allred et al., Arch Surg. l99t) .Ean;l25(l):lll7—l3).

{@591}        Brieﬂy, any intact organ or tissue may be cut into fairly small pieces and incubated

in various es (eg. formalin, alcohol, etc.) for varying periods of time until the tissue

is "ﬁxed". The samples may be virtually any intact tissue ally removed from the body.
 
 The s may be cut into reasonably small piece(s) that ﬁt on the equipment routinely

used in histopathology laboratories. The size of the cut pieces typically ranges from a few

millimeters to a few centimeters.
 
 III.      Detection Antibody Conjugates

        The present invention further es antibodies against FOLRl, generally of the

monoclonal type, that are linked to at least one agent to form a detection antibody

conjugate. In order to increase the efﬁcacy of antibody molecules as diagnostic it is

conventional to link or ntly bind or complex at least one desired molecule or moiety.
 
 Such a molecule or moiety may be, but is not limited to, at least one reporter molecule. A

reporter molecule is deﬁned as any moiety that may be ed using an assay. Non-

limiting examples of reporter molecules that have been ated to antibodies include

enzymes,   radiolabels,   haptens,   cent   labels,   phosphorescent   molecules,

chemiluminescent  molecules,  chromophores,  luminescent  molecules,  photoafﬁnity

molecules, colored particles and/or s, such as biotin.
 
         Any cell binding agent (e.g., an antibody or polypeptide) of sufﬁcient selectivity,

speciﬁcity or afﬁnity may be employed as the basis for detection of the FOLRl polypeptide.
 
 Such  properties  may  be  evaluated  using  conventional  immunological  screening

methodology known to those of skill in the art. Sites for binding to biological active

molecules in the antibody molecule, in addition to the canonical antigen binding sites,

include sites that reside in the variable domain that can bind the antigen. In addition, the

-21“.

variable domain is involved in antibody self—binding (Kang et al., 1988) and contains

epitopes (idiotopes) recognized by anti-antibodies (Kohler et al., 1989).
 
         Certain examples of protein binding (e.g., antibody) conjugates. are those ates

in  which  the  protein  binding  agent  (e.g.,  antibody)  is  linked  to  a  able  label.
 
 "Detectable labels" are compounds and/or ts that can be detected due to their speciﬁc

functional properties, and/or chemical characteristics, the use of which allows the antibody

to which they are attached to be detected, and/or r quantiﬁed if desired.

{0095}        Many appropriate imaging agents are known in the art, as are methods for their

attachment to antibodies (see, for e.g., US. Pat. Nos. 5,021,236; 4,938,948; and 4,472,509,

each incorporated herein by reference). The imaging moieties used can be paramagnetic

ions;  ctive  isotopes;  ﬂuorochromes;  tectable  substances;  and/or  X—ray

imaging, for example.
 
         Exemplary  ﬂuorescent  labeis  contemplated  for  use  as  protein  binding  (e.g.,

antibody) conjugates include Alexa 350, Alexa 430, Alexa 488, AMCA, BODIPY 630/650,

BODIPY 5, BODIPY—FL, BODIPY-R6G, BODIPY-TMR, BODIPY-TRX, Cascade

Blue, Cy3, Cy5,6-FAM, Dylight 488, Fluorescein ocyanate, Green ﬂuorescent protein

(GFP),  HEX, 6-JOE, Oregon Green 488, Oregon Green 500, Oregon Green 514, Paciﬁc

Blue, Phycoerythrin, REG, Rhodamine Green, Rhodamine Red, tetramethyl rhodamine

(TMR), Renographin, ROX, TAMRA, TET, Tetramethylrhodamine, Texas Red, and

derivatives of these labels (i.e halogenated analogues, modiﬁed with isothiocyanate or other

linker for conjugating, etc), for example. An exemplary radiolabel is tritium.

£13097}          Protein binding (e.g., antibody) detection conjugates contemplated in the present

invention e those for use in Vitro, where the antibody is linked to a secondary binding

ligand and/or to an enzyme (an enzyme tag) that will generate a colored product upon

contact with  a chromogenic  substrate.  es  of suitable  enzymes include  urease,

alkaline phosphatase, (horseradish) hydrogen dase and/or glucose oxidase.  Preferred

ary binding ligands are biotin and/or avidin and avidin nds.  The use of

such labels is well known to those of skill in the art and are described, for example, in US.
 
 Pat. Nos. 3,817,837; 3,850,752; 3,939,350; 3,996,345; 4,277,437; 4,275,149 and 4,366,241;

each incorporated herein by reference.
 
         Molecules containing azido groups may also be used to form covalent bonds to

proteins  through  reactive  nitrene  intermediates  that  are  generated  by  low  intensity

ultraviolet light (Potter & Haley, 1983). In ular, 2- and 8—azido analogues of purine

nucleotides have been used as site-directed photoprobes to fy nucleotide binding

proteins in crude cell extracts (Owens & Haley, 1987; Atherton et al., 1985). The 2- and 8-

azido nucleotides have also been used to map nucleotide binding domains of puriﬁed

ns (Khatoon et al., 1989; King et al., 1989; and Dholakia et al., 1989) and may be used

as antibody binding agents.
 
         Several methods are known in the art for the attachment or conjugation of an

antibody to its conjugate moiety. Some attachment methods involve the use of a metal

chelate   x   employing,   for  example,   an  organic   chelating   agent  such  a

diethylenetréaminepentaacetic acid anhydride (DTPA); ethylenetriaminetetraacetic acid; N-

chloro-p-toluenesulfonamide; and/or hloro-3a-6d-diphenylglycouril-3 ed to the

antibody (US. Pat. Nos. 4,472,509 and 4,938,948, each incorporated herein by reference).
 
 Monoclonal antibodies may also be reacted with an enzyme in the presence of a coupling

agent such as glutaraldehyde or periodate.  Protein binding (e. g., antibody) conjugates with

ﬂuorescein markers are prepared in the presence of these coupling agents or by reaction

with an isothiocyanate. In US. Pat. No. 4,938,948, g of breast tumors, for example,

is achieved using monoclonal dies, and the detectable imaging es are bound to

the antibody using linkers such as methyl-p-hydroxybenzimidate or N—succinimidyl(4-

hydroxyphenyl)—propionate.
 
        In other embodiments, derivatization of immunoglobulins by selectively introducing

sulﬂiydryl groups in the Fc region of an immunoglobulin using reaction conditions that do

not alter the antibody ing site are contemplated. Antibody ates ed

according to this methodo‘rogy are disclosed to exhibit improved longevity, speciﬁcity and

sensitivity  (US.  Pat.  No.  5,196,066,  incorporated  herein  by  reference).  Site-specific

attachment of effector or reporter molecules, wherein the reporter or effector molecule is

conjugated to a carbohydrate residue in the Fc region, have also been disclosed in the

literature nnessy et al., 1987).
 
        In other embodiments of the invention, immunoglobulins are radiolabeled with

nuclides such as tritium.  In additional embodiments, nanogold particles (such as sizes from

about 0.5 nm-40 nm) and/or Quantum Dots (Hayward, Calif.) are employed.
 
 IV.    Enzymes and Substrates (Chromagens)

       The use of substrates and tors is contemplated for ion of FOLRl, such as

the ary embodiments provided below, for example.

_23,

       adish peroxidase (HRP) is an enzyme that ﬁrst forms a complex with

hydrogen peroxide and then causes it to decompose, resulting in water and atomic oxygen.
 
 Like many other s, HRP and some ke activities can be inhibited by excess

ate. The complex formed between HRP and excess hydrogen de is catalytically

inactive and in the absence of an electron donor (e.g. genic substance) is reversibly

inhibited. It is the excess hydrogen peroxide and the absence of an electron donor that

brings about ing of endogenous HRP activities.

{00104}       When used in assays systems, HRP can also be used to convert a deﬁned substrate

into its activated chromagen, thus causing a color change.   The HRP enzyme may be

conjugated to an antibody, protein, peptide, polymer, or other molecule by a number of

methods.   Such methods are known in the art.   Adding glutaraldehyde to a solution

containing an admixture of HRP and antibody will result in more antibody molecules being

conjugated to each other than to the enzyme. In the two-step procedure, HRP reacts with the

bifunctional reagents ﬁrst. In the second stage, only activated HRP is d with the

antibody, resulting in much more nt labelling and no polymerization. HRP is also

conjugated to (strept)avidin using the two—step glutaraldehyde procedure. This form is used

in procedures where LAB and LSAB are substrate, for example. Conjugation with biotin

also  involves  two  steps,  as  biotin  must  ﬁrst  be  derivatized  to  the  yl-N—

hydroxysuccinimide  ester  or to  biotin hydrazide before  it  can be reacted with the

epsilonamino groups of the HRP enzyme.

]       3,3'—Diaminobenzidine (DAB) is a substrate for enzymes such as HRP that produces

a brown end product that is highly insoluble in alcohol and other organic solvents.
 
 Oxidation of DAB also causes polymerization, resulting in the ability to react with osmium

tetroxide, and thus increasing its staining intensity and electron density. Of the several

metals and methods used to intensify the optical y of polymerized DAB, gold chloride

in combination with silver sulﬁde appears to be the most successful.

       3-Amino—9-ethylcarbazole (ABC) is  a substrate for enzymes such as HRP.  Upon

oxidation,  forms a rose-red end product that is alcohol  soluble.  Therefore,  specimens

processed with ABC must not be immersed in l or alcoholic solutions (e.g., Harris'

hematoxylin). Instead, an aqueous counterstain and mounting medium should be used. ABC

is unfortunately susceptible to further oxidation and, when exposed to excessive light, will

fade in intensity. Storage in the dark is therefore recommended.



       4-Chloro-1—naphthol (CN) is a substrate for enzymes such as HRP and precipitates

as a blue end product. Because CN is soluble in alcohol and other organic solvents, the

specimen must not be ated, exposed to alcoholic counterstains, or coverslipped with

mounting media containing organic ts. Unlike DAB, CN tends to diffase from the site

of itation.

       p-Phenylenediamine dihydrochloride/pyrocatechol (Hanker-Yates reagent) is a an

electron donor substrate for enzymes such as HRP and gives a lack reaction product

that is insoluble in alcohol and other c solvents. Like polymerized DAB, this reaction

product can be osmicated. Varying results have been achieved with Hanker-Yates reagent in

peroxidase techniques.

[0100}        Calf intestine alkaline phosphatase (AP) (molecular weight 100 kD) is an enzyme

that removes (by hydrolysis) and transfers phosphate groups from organic esters by

breaking the P-O bond; an intermediate enzyme-substrate bond is brieﬂy . The chief

metal activators for AP are Mg++, Mn++ and Ca++.

{0101]        AP had not been used extensively in immunohistochemistry until publication of the

unlabeled alkaline phosphataseantialkaline phosphatase (APAAP) procedure. The soluble

immune complexes utilized in this procedure have molecular weights of approximately 560

kD. The major advantage of the APAAP ure compared to the PAP technique is the

lack of interference posed by endogenous peroxidase activity. Because of the potential

distraction of endogenous peroxidase activity on PAP staining, the APAAP technique is

recommended for use on blood and bone marrow smears. Endogenous alkaline atase

activity from bone, kidney, liver and some white cells can be ted by the addition of l

min-ft  levamisole  to  the  substrate  solution,  although 5 mM has been found to be more

effective. Intestinal alkaline phosphatases are not adequately inhibited by levamisoie.
 
         In  the  immunoalkaline  phosphatase  staining  method,  the  enzyme  hydrntyzes

ol phosphate esters (substrate) to phenolic compounds and phosphates. The phenols

couple to ess diazonium salts (chromogen) to produce insoluble, colored azo dyes.
 
 Several different combinations of substrates and chromogens have been used successfully.
 
         Naphthol AS-MX phosphate can be used in its acid form or as the sodium salt. The

chromogens Fast Red TR and Fast Blue BB e a bright red or blue end product,

respectively. Both are soluble in alcoholic and other organic solvents, so aqueous mounting

media must be used. Fast Red TR is red when ng cell smears.

{area}        Additional exemplary substrates include naphthol AS—BI phosphate, ol AS-

TR phosphate and 5—bromochloro-3—indoxyl phosphate (BCIP).  Other possible

chromogens include Fast Red LB, Fast Garnet GBC, Nitro Blue Tetrazolium (NBT)

iodonitrotetrazolium Violet (INT), and derivatives of the structures, for example.
 
 V.     Immunodetection Methods

        In  still  further  embodiments,  the present  invention  concerns  immunodetection

methods for binding, purifying, removing, quantifying and/or otherwése lly ing

biological components such as a ligand as contemplated by the present invention. The

dies prepared in accordance with the present invention may be ed to detect

wild-type  and/or  mutant  ligand  proteins,  polypeptides  and/or peptides.  As described

throughout the  present application,  the  use of wild—type  and/or mutant  ligand c

antibodies  is  contemplated.  Some immunodetection  methods  e ﬂow  cytometry,

enzyme   linked   imrnunosorbent   assay   (ELISA),   radioimmunoassay   (RIA),

immunoradiometric assay, ﬂuoroimmunoassay, chemiluminescent assay, bioluminescent

useful immunodetection

assay, and Western blot to mention a few. The steps of various

methods have been described in the scientiﬁc literature, such as, e.g., tle M H and

Ben-Zeev 0, Methods Mol Biol. 1999;109:215-37; Gulbis B and Galand P, Hum Pathol.

199% Dec;24(12):1271—85; and De Jager R et al., Semin Nucl Med. 1993 Apr;23(2):l65-79,

each incorporated herein by reference.
 
         In l, the immunobinding s include obtaining a sample suspected of

comprising ligand n, polypeptide and/or peptide, and contacting the sample with a

ﬁrst ligand binding peptide (e.g., an anti-ligand antibody) in accordance with the present

invention,  as  the  case may  be,  under  conditions  effective  to  allow the  formation  of

immunocomplexes.

        in terms of antigen detection, the biological sample ed may be any sample

that is suspected of comprising a wild—type or mutant ligand protein-speciﬁc antigen, such

as a tissue section or specimen, a homogenized tissue extract, biopsy aspirates, a cell,

separated and/or puriﬁed forms of any of the above wild-type or mutant FOLRl-containing

compositions, or even any biological ﬂuid that comes into contact with the tissue, including

blood and/or serum, although tissue samples or ts are preferred.
 
         Contacting  the  chosen  biological  sample  with  the  antibody  under  effective

conditions and for a period of time sufﬁcient to allow the ion of immune complexes

-26,

(prémary  immune  complexes)  is  generally  a  matter  of simply  adding  the  antibody

composition to the sample and incubating the mixture for a period of time long enough for

the antibodies to form immune complexes with, i.e., to bind to, any ligand protein antigens

present. After this time, the sample-antibody composition, such as a tissue section, ELISA

plate, dot blot or western blot, will generally be washed to remove any non-speciﬁcally

bound antibody  species,  allowing  only those  antibodies  speciﬁcally bound within the

prémary immune complexes to be detected.
 
         In general, the detection of immunocomplex formation is well known in the art and

may be achieved through the application of numerous ches. These methods are

generally based upon the detection of a label or marker, such as any of those radioactive,

ﬂuorescent, biological and enzymatic tags. US. Patents concerning the use of such labels

include US. Pat. Nos. 3,817,837; 3,850,752; 3,939,350; 3,996,345; 4,277,437; 149

and 4,366,241, each orated herein by nce. Of course, one may ﬁnd additional

advantages h the use of a secondary binding ligand such as a second antibody arid/or

a biotin/avidin ligand binding ement, as is known in the art.
 
         The anti—ligand antibody employed in the detection may itself be linked to a

detectable label, wherein one would then simply detect this label, thereby allowing the

amount  of the primary  immune  complexes  in the  composition to  be  determined.
 
 Alternatively, the ﬁrst antibody that becomes bound within the primary immune complexes

may be detected by means of a second binding agent that has binding afﬁnity for the

dy. In these cases, the second binding agerét may be linked to a detectable label. The

second binding agent is itself often an antibody, which may thus be termed a "secondary"

antibody, or a polymer ion system. The primary immune complexes are contacted

with the labeled, ary binding agent, or antibody/polymer detection system, under

effective conditions and for a period of time ent to allow the formation of secondary

immune xes.  The secondary immune complexes are then generally washed to

remove any non-speciﬁcally bound labeled secondary antibodies or ligands, and the

remaining label in the secondary immune complexes is then detected.

[0111:        Further methods include the detection of primary immune complexes by a two-step

approach. A second g agent, such as an antibody, that has g afﬁnity for the

dy is used to form secondary immune complexes, as described above. After washing,

the secondary immune complexes are contacted with a third binding agent or antibody that

has g afﬁnity for the second antibody, again under effective conditions and for a

.27~

period of time sufﬁcient to ailow the formation of immune complexes {tertiary .

compiexes). The third ligand or dy is iinked to a detectabie iabei, allowing detection

of the tertiary immune complexes thus .  This system may provide for signal.

arripiitication if this is desired.

it}: E2}          In another embodiment, a biotinylated monoclonal or polyclonal antibody is used to

detect the target antigen(s), and a second step antibody is then used to detect the biotin

attached to the complexed biotin. In that method the sample to be tested is ﬁrst incubated in

a solution comprising the ﬁrst step antibody. If the target antigen is present, some of the

antibody  binds to the n to  form a biotinylated antibody/antigen complex.  The

antibody/antigen complex  is then  ed  by  incubation in  successive  solutions  of

streptavidin (or avidin), biotinylated DNA, and/or mentary biotinylated DNA, with

each step adding additional biotin sites to the antibody/antigen complex. The ampliﬁcation

steps are repeated until a suitable level of ampliﬁcation is achieved, at which point the

sample is incubated in a solution comprising the second step antibody against biotin. This

second step antibody is labeled, as for example wéth an enzyme that can be used to detect

the presence of the antibody/antigen complex by histoenzymology using a chromogen

substrate. With suitable ampliﬁcation, a protein binding (e.g., antibody) conjugate can be

produced that is macroscopically visible.
 
         Another known method of immunodetection takes advantage of the immuno-PCR

(Polymerase   Chain   on)   methodology.   The   PCR   method   uses   a

DNA/biotin/streptavidin/antibody complex that is washed out with a low pH or high salt

buffer that releases the antibody. The resulting wash solution is then used to carry out a

PCR reaction with le primers with appropriate controls. In speciﬁc ments, the

enormous ampliﬁcation lity and speciﬁcity of PCR can be utilized to detect a single

antigen molecule. Such ion may take place in real-time. For example, the use of

tative real-time PCR is contemplated.

{(3114}          In the clinical diagnosis and/or monitoring of patients with various forms of disease,

the  detection  of a FOLRI  mutant,  and/or  an  alteration  in the  levels  of FOLRl,  in

comparison to the levels in a corresponding biological sample from a normal subject is

indicative of a t with the disease. However, as is known to those of skill in the art,

such a clinical diagnosis would not necessarily be made on the basis of this method in

isolation. Those of skill in the art are very familiar with differentiating between signiﬁcant

differences in types and/or amounts of biomarkers, which represent a positive identiﬁcation,

and/or low level and/or ound changes of biomarkers. Indeed, background expression

levels are often used to form a "cut-off" above which increased detection will be scored as

signiﬁcant and/or positive.

39115;        In  one  embodiment,  immunological  detection  (by  immunohistochemistry)  of

FOLRI is scored for both intensity and uniformity (percent of stained cells — membrane

only).  Comparative scales for FOLRl expression for intensity correlate as 0 — Negative, 0-

1                                                                                    — Moderate to Strong,                                              — Moderate, 2-3

- Weak to Moderate, 2

- Very Weak, 1 — Weak, 1-2

3 — Strong.  tatively, Score 0 represents that no membrane staining is observed in

tumor cells. A Score 1 represents a faint/barely perceptible membrane staining in tumor

cells.  For Score 2, a moderate membrane staining is observed in tumor cells.  Lastly, Score

3  or 3+ represents a moderate to strong membrane staining in the tumor cells.   Those

samples  with  0  or  1  score  for  FOLRI  expression  may  be  characterized  as  not

overexpressing FOLRl, whereas those samples with 2 or E scores may be terized as

overexpressing  FOLRI.    Samples  pressing  FOLRl  may  also  be  rated  by

immunohistochemical scores corresponding to the number of copies of FOLRI les

expressed per cell, and have been determined biochemically:  0=0-10,000 copies/cell, l=at

least about 200,000 copies/cell, 2=at least about 500,000 copies/cell, and 3=at least about

2,000,000 copies/cell.  Comparative scales for FOLRl percent cell membrane staining

uniformity correlate as follows: 0 — Negative, Focal                                 - 25-

- <25%, heterogeneous (hetero)

75%, and homogeneous (homo) - >75%.
 
 VI.    Nucleic Acid Hybridization

        In situ hybridization is lly carréed out on cells or tissue sections ﬁxed to

slides. In situ hybridization may be performed by l conventional methodologies (See

for e.g.  Leitch et al.  In  situ Hybridization:  a cal  guide, Oxford BIOS  Scientiﬁc

Publishers, copy handbooks v. 27 (1994)). In one in situ procedure, ﬂuorescent dyes

(such as ﬂuorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) that ﬂuoresces green when d by an Argon

ion laser) are used to label a nucleic acid ce probe that is complementary to a target

nucleotide sequence in the cell. Each cell comprising the target nucleotide sequence will

bind the labeled probe, producing a ﬂuorescent signal upon exposure of the cells to a tight

source of a wavelength riate for excitation of the speciﬁc ﬂuorochrome used.
 
         Various degrees of hybridization stringency can be employed. As the hybridization

conditions become more stringent, a greater degree of complementarity is required between

-29..

the probe and target to form and maintain a stable duplex. Stringency is increased by raising

temperature,  lowering  salt concentration,  or raising  formamide  concentration.  Adding

n sulfate or raising its tration may also increase the effective concentration of

labeled probe to increase the rate of ization and ultimate signal intensity. After

hybridization, slides are washed in a solution generally comprising reagents similar to those

found in  the  hybridization  solution with washing time varying from minutes to  hours

depending on required stringency.  Longer or more stringent washes typically lower

nonspeciﬁc background but run the risk of decreasing overall sensitivity.

{aria}        Probes  used  in  nucleic  hybrédization  analysis may  be  either RNA or DNA

oligonucleotides  or  polynucleotides  and  may  contain  not  only  naturally-occurring

nucleotides  but  their  analogs,  like  genin  dCTP,  biotin  dcTP  7—azaguanosine,

azidothymidine, inosine, or uridine, for example. Other useful probes include peptide probes

and analogues thereof, branched gene DNA, peptidometics, peptide nucleic acid (PNA)

and/or antibodies, for example.

{911§§        Probes should have sufﬁcient complementarity to the target nucleic acid sequence of

interest so that stable and speciﬁc binding occurs between the target nucleic acid sequence

and the probe. The degree of homology required for stable hybridization varies with the

stringency of the hybridization medium and/or wash medium.  Preferably,  completely

homologous probes are employed in the present invention, but s of skill in the art will

readily iate that probes exhibiting lesser but sufﬁcient homology can be used in the

present invention (see for e.g. Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F., Maniatis, T., lar Cloning

A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, (1989)).

{@129}        Probes may also be generated and chosen by several means including, but not

d to, mapping by in situ ization, somatic cell hybrid panels, or spot blots of

sorted chromosomes; chromosomal linkage is; or cloned and isolated from sorted

chromosome libraries from human cell lines or somatic cell hybrids with human

chromosomes, radiation c cell hybrids, issection of a chromosome region, or

from yeast artiﬁcial somes (YACs) identiﬁed by PCR primers c for a unique

chromosome locus or other suitable means like an adjacent YAC clone. Probes may be

genomic DNA, cDNA, or RNA cloned in a d, phage, cosmid, YAC, Bacterial

Artiﬁcial Chromosomes (BACS), viral vector, or any other suitable vector. Probes may be

cloned or synthesized chemically by conventional methods. When cloned, the isolated probe

nucleic acid nts are typically inserted into a vector, such as lambda phage, pBR322,

M13, or vectors containing the SP6 or T7 promoter and cloned as a library in a bacterial

host.  [See  for  e.g.  Sambrook,  J.,  Fritsch,  E.  F.,  Maniatis,  T.,  Molecular  Cloning A

tory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, (1989)].

{$122}        Probes are preferably labeled, such as with a ﬂuorophor, for example. Examples of

ﬂuorophores e, but are not limited to, rare earth es (europium chelates), Texas

Red,   rhodamine,   ﬂuorescein,   dansyl,   Lissamine,   iferone,   phycocrytherin,

phycocyanin, or commercially available ﬂuorophors such SPECTRUM ORANGETM and

SPECTRUM GREENTM and/or derivatives of any one or more of the above. Multiple

probes used in the assay may be labeled with more than one distinguishable ﬂuorescent or

pigment color.  These  color  differences  provide  a means to  identify  the  hybridization

positions of speciﬁc probes. Moreover, probes that are not separated lly can be

identiﬁed by a different color light or pigment resulting from mixing two other colors (e.g.,

light een=yellow) pigment (e.g., blue+yellow=green) or by using a ﬁlter set that

passes only one color at a time.
 
         Probes  can  be  labeled  directly  or  indirectly  with  the  ﬂuorophor,  utilizing

conventional methodology known to one with skill in the art.
 
 VII.    ion Kits and Compositions

        Also provided by the invention are kits for use in the practice of the present

invention as disclosed herein. Such kits may se containers, each with one or more of

the various reagents (typically in concentrated form) ed in the methods, including, for

example,  one or more binding agents  (antibodies),  already attached to a marker or

optionally with reagents for coupling  a binding agent to an antibody  or nucleic acid

molecule (as well as the marker itself); buffers, the appropriate nucleotide triphosphates

(e.g. dATP, dCTP, dGTP, dTTP, dUTP, ATP, CTP, GTP and UTP), reverse transcriptase,

DNA polymerase, RNA polymerase, and one or more sequence-specific or rate

prémers for use in detection of nucleic acid molecules by ampliﬁcation; and/or reagents and

instrumentation for the isolation (optionally by microdissection) to t the practice of

the ion. A label or indicator describing,  or a set of instructions for use of, kit

components in a ligand detection method of the present invention, will also be typically

included,  Where the  instructions may be  associated with a package  insert  and/or the

packaging of the kit or the components thereof.

-31...
 
         In still further embodiments, the present invention concerns immunodetection kits

for use with the immunodetection methods described above. As the antibodies are generally

used to detect wild—type and/or mutant proteins, polypeptides and/or peptides, the antibodies

will preferably be included in the kit. The immunodetection kits will thus comprise, in

suitable container means, a ﬁrst antibody that binds to a wild-type and/or mutant protein,

polypeptide and/or peptide, and/or optionally, an immunodetection reagent and/or further

optionally, a wild-type and/or mutant protein, polypeptide and/or peptide.
 
         The immunodetection reagents of the kit may take any one of a variety of forms,

including those  detectable labels that are  associated with and/or linked to the given

dy. Detectable labels that are associated with and/or attached to a secondary binding

ligand are also contemplated. Exemplary secondary ligands are those secondary dies

or polymers that have g y for the ﬁrst antibody.
 
         Further suitable immunodetection reagents for use in the present kits e the

two—component reagent that comprises a secondary antibody that has binding afﬁnity for the

ﬁrst antibody, along with a third antibody or polymer that has binding afﬁnity for the

second antibody, the third antibody being linked to a detectable label. As noted above, a

number of exemplary labels are known in the art and/0r all such labels may be suitably

ed in connection wéth the present invention.
 
         The kits may further comprise a suitably aliquoted composition of the wild-type

and/or mutant protein, polypeptide and/or polypeptide, r labeled and/or unlabeled, as

a                                                       n                                                                                        may be used to prepare    standard curve for a detection assay. The kits may

dy- or polymer-label ates either in fully conjugated form, in the form of

intermediates, and/or as separate moieties to be conjugated by the user of the kit. The

components of the kits may be packaged either in aqueous media and/or in lized

form.

{0123]        The container means of the kits will generally include at least one vial, test tube,

ﬂask, bottle, syringe and/or other container means, into which the antibody may be placed,

and/0r preferably, ly aliquoted. The kits of the present invention will also typically

include a means for containing the antibody, antigen, and/or any other reagent containers in

close conﬁnement for commercial sale. Such containers may e injection and/or blow-

molded plastic containers into which the desired Vials are retained.

gnzw      The kits may further comprise one or more therapeutic agents for the treatment of

cancer, such as a FOLRl immunoconjugate and/or a chemotherapeutic agent.

-32..

terse;        The kit may further comprise an a FOLRl detection reagent used to measure FOLRl

expression in a t comprésing a FOLRl detection reagent, and instructions for use.  In

one embodiment, the FOLRl detection reagent comprises a FOLR] binding peptide, protein

or a lar probe (i.e. nucleic acid).  In another embodiment, the FOLRl  detection

reagent is an anti-FOLRl antibody.  In r embodiment, the kit further comprises a

secondary antibody which binds the OLRI antibody. In one embodiment the FOLRl-

speciﬁc antibody is included at a concentration of 0.5 to 7.5 ug/ml, ably 0.9 to 3.8 +/—

0.5 ug/ml. In another embodiment, the dy is included at a concentration of 1.0 +/- 0.5

ug/ml, 1.5 +/— 0.5 ug/ml, 1.9 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 2.5 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 3.0 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, 3.5 +/— 0.5

ug/ml, 3.8 +/- 0.5 ug/ml, or up to 4.2 ug/nil.  In another embodiment, the antibody is

included  in  trated  solution  with  instructions  for  ons  to  achieve  a  ﬁnal

concentration of 0.9 to 3.8 +/- 0.5 ug/ml.  In another embodiment, the kit further comprises

a detection reagent selected from the group consisting of: an enzyme, a ﬂuorophore, a

radioactive label, and a luminophore.  In another embodiment, the detection reagent is

selected  from  the  group  consisting  of:  biotin,  digoxigenin,  ﬂuorescein,  m,  and

ine.

{$131}        The kit can also include instructions for detection and scoring of FOLRl expression.
 
 The kit can also include control or reference samples.  miting examples of control or

reference samples include cell pellets or tissue culture cell lines derived from normal

(normal control) or tumor (positive control) samples.  Exemplary cell lines include KB,

NCI-H2llO, Igrov-l, Ishikawa,   Jeg-3, Skov-3, Hela, T47D, Caco2, SW620, OAW28,

HCC827, Ovcar—8, and Ovcar-3, OV—90, other tumor cell lines known to express FOLRI,

and cell  lines  stably  or transiently transfected with an expression vector that expresses

FOLRl. Additional es for positive control tissues can also be found in Examples 9-

11.  The kit can also comprise a staining guide which Visually depicts positive and normal

reference samples for staining intensity and uniformity.   Such staining guides can have

reference samples from normal lung, pancreas, and/or salivary gland, and stained tumors

with standardized scores (e.g., ovarian, lung, renal, and endometrial s, as well as

those described in the Examples and in Figures 23—25)

VIII,   FOLiﬁlubinding agents

        Any dies that bind FOLRI can be used in the detection methods of the present

invention. es oftherapeuticaily effective anti—FOLRI antibodies can be tbund in US

Appl. Pub. No. US 2012/0009181 which is herein incorporated by reference. The fulllength

amino acid (aa) and nucleotide (nt) sequences for FOLR1 are known in the art

and also provided herein as represented by SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2, respectively.  A

specifically useful antibody for detection of FOLR1 is the mouse monoclonal antihuFOLR1

clone BN3.2 (Leica # NCL-L-FRalpha). An example of a therapeutically

effective OLR1 antibody is huMov19 (M9346A).  The polypeptides of SEQ ID

NOs: 3-5 comprise the variable domain of the heavy chain of huMov19 (M9346A), and

the variable domain light chain version 1.00, the variable domain light chain version

1.60 of huMov19, respectively. The huMov19 (M9346A) antibody comprises: (a) a

heavy chain CDR1 comprising GYFMN (SEQ ID NO:6); a heavy chain CDR2

comprising RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ ID NO:7); and a heavy chain CDR3

comprising YDGSRAMDY (SEQ ID NO:8); and (b) a light chain CDR1 comprising

KASQSVSFAGTSLMH (SEQ ID NO:9); a light chain CDR2 comprising RASNLEA

(SEQ ID NO:10); and a light chain CDR3 comprising QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID NO:11).
 
 In certain embodiments, the 9 (M9346A) antibody is encoded by the plasmids

ted with the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), located at 10801

University Boulevard, Manassas, VA 20110 on April 7, 2010 under the terms of the

Budapest Treaty and having ATCC t nos. PTA-10772 and PTA-10773 or 10774.
 
 Examples of FOLR1 immunoconjugates useful in the therapeutic methods of the

invention are ed below.
 
 IX.     FOLR1 Immunoconjugates

        The present invention also includes methods for sing the efficacy of

conjugates (also ed to herein as immunoconjugates), comprising the anti-FOLR1

dies, antibody fragments, functional equivalents, improved antibodies and their

aspects as disclosed , linked or conjugated to a cytotoxin (drug) or g.
 
 Exemplary FOLR1 immunoconjugates can be found in US Appl. Pub. No. US

009181, which is herein incorporated by reference.  A particularly effective

therapeutic  immunoconjugate  of  the  invention  comprises  the  huMov19  antibody

described above.
 
         Suitable drugs or prodrugs are known in the art. In certain embodiments, drugs

or prodrugs are xic agents. The cytotoxic agent used in the cytotoxic ate of

the present invention can be any compound that results in the death of a cell, or induces

cell death, or in some manner decreases cell viability, and includes, for example,



maytansinoids and maytansinoid analogs, benzodiazepines, taxoids, CC-1065 and CC-

1065  analogs,  duocarmycins  and  duocarmycin  analogs,  enediynes,  such  as

calicheamicins, atin and dolastatin analogs including auristatins, tomaymycin

derivatives, leptomycin derivatives, rexate, cisplatin, carboplatin, daunorubicin,

doxorubicin, vincristine, vinblastine,

[TEXT CONTINUES ON PAGE 35]

- 34a -

melphaian,  mitoh’tyciri  C,  mbucii  and  morphoiirio  doxombicin,    In  certain

embodiments, the cytotoxic agents are maytansinoids and sirioids analogs,

{0135}        The drug or prodrug cart, for exampie, be limited to the anti—FOLK antibody, such

as  hul‘vtoviéi,  or  fragment  thereof through  a  disulﬁde  bond.   The iinirer molecule  or

crosslinking agent comprises a reactive chemical group that can react with the airtix-FOLRl

antibody or tragn‘tent f,   in certain embodiments, ve ai groups for

reaction with the cell—binding agent are ,NLSticciitimidyi esters and. Neuifosuccinimidyi

esters.   onaliy the linker molecule comprises a reactive chemical group, in certain

embodiments a opyridyl group that can react with the drug to form a disuitide bond. in

certain  embodiments,  ticker  molecules  inciude,  for  example,  ccinimidyi  3«{2~

pyridyidithio} propionate (SPDP) (see, cg, Cartsson et ai‘, Biochem. J, {173: 723337

)g A’T—SUCCiHitnidyi 4-«(2:pyridyidithiokutaiioate (SPDB) (see, eg US: Patent No.

4,563,304):  i\7l~3ttccininiidyi  4*(2*pyridyidithioiflm-suifobutanoate  (sulfo-SPDB)  (see US

Publication No. 20090274713) , inimidyl 4—(2—pyridyldithio) pentanoate (SPP) (see,

e.g., CAS Registry number 341498-08—6), 2-iminothiolane, or succinic anhydride.
 
         Antibody-maytansinoid conjugates with non-cleavable links can also be prepared.
 
 Such crosslinkers are described in the art (see ThermoScientiﬁc Pierce Crosslinking

Technical  Handbook and US  Patent Application Publication No.  2005/0169933)  and

include    but    are    not    d    to,       N—succinimidyl    4-(maleimidomethyl)

cyclohexanecarboxylate (SMCC), inimidyl—4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane—l-

carboxy—(6-amidocaproate), which is a “long chain” analog of SMCC (LC—SMCC), K-

maleimidoundecanoic acid N—succinimidyl ester (KMUA), B-maleimidopropanoic acid N-

succinimidyl ester (BMPS), y—maleimidobutyric acid N-succinimidyl ester (GMBS), 8-

maleimidocaproic  acid  N—hydroxysuccinimide  ester  (EMCS),  m-maleimidobenzoyl—N-

hydroxysuccinimide  ester (MBS), N-(oc-maleimidoacetoxy)-succinimide ester (AMAS),

succinimidyl-6—(B-maleimidopropionamido)hexanoate   (SMPH),   N-succinimidyl   4—(p-

idophenyl)~butyrate  (SMPB),  and N—(p-maleimidophenyl)isocyanate  (PMPI),  N-

succinimidyl(iodoacetyl)—aminobenzoate (SIAB), N-succinimidyl iodoacetate (SEA), N—

succinimidyl  bromoacetate  (SBA),  and  N-succinimidyl  3-(bromoacetamido)propionate

(SBAP). In certain embodiments, the antibody is modiﬁed with crosslinking reagents such

as succinimidyl 4—(N-maleimidomethyl)—cyclohexane—l-carboxylate (SMCC), sulfo—SMCC,

maleimidobenzoyl-N—hydroxysuccinimide  ester  (MBS),  sulfo—MBS  or  succinimidyl-

iodoacetate, as described in the literature, to introduce l-lO reactive groups (Yoshitake et a1,

Eur. J. Biochem, 101:395-399 (1979); Hashida et al, J. Applied m., 56—63 (1984);

and Liu et at, Biochem, 182690-697 ).
 
         The present invention includes s wherein about 2 to about 8 drug molecules

("drug load"), for example, maytansinoid, are linked to an anti-FOLRl antibody or fragment

thereof, the anti-tumor effect of the conjugate is much more efﬁcacious as compared to a

drug load of a lesser or higher number of drugs linked to the same cell binding agent.
 
 "Drug load", as used herein, refers to the number of drug les (e.g., a maytansinoid)

that can be attached to a cell binding agent (e.g., an anti-FOLRl antibody or fragment

thereof).  In one aspect the number of drug molecules that can be attached to a cell binding

agent can average from about 2 to about 8 (e.g., 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8,

2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9,

.0, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, 6.9, 7.0,

7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 8.0, 8.1).  In n embodiments, the drug is  N21

deacetyl—NT-(3—mercapto-l-oxopropyl)—maytansine (DMl) or N27—deacetyl—N2’-(4-mercapto-

4-methyl-l-oxopentyl) maytansine (DM4). Thus, in a certain embodiment, the antibody

huMovl9 is conjugated to DMI or DM4.  In another embodiment, the antibody FR—l-21 is

conjugated to DMl or DM4. In r embodiment, the antibody FR-l-48 is conjugated to

DMl or DM4. In another embodiment, the antibody FR—1-49 is conjugated to DMl or

DM4. In r embodiment, the dy FR—l—57 is ated to DMl or DM4. In

another embodiment, the antibody FR—l-65 is conjugated to DMl or DM4.
 
 X.     ation of FOLRl sion and therapeutic efﬁcacy  ’

        In certain embodiments, the invention provides a method for identifying subjects

with an increased likelihood for responding to FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer therapies.  The

invention is based,  in part,  on the discovery that elevated FOLRl  expression levels

correlates with efficacy of FOLR-l -targeting anti-cancer therapeutics.
 
         Evaluation of patient samples and correlation to in vivo efficacy using xenograft

models demonstrates the power of the expression analysis for selecting subjects more likely

to respond to treatment.  IHC provides a score for FOLRl expression on tumor cells: 0 (no

expression) to 3+ (very high levels of expression).  In vivo data using xenograft models

demonstrates that samples scoring 1, 2, 3, or 3+ for FOLRl expression, preferably a score

of 2, 3, or 3+, have an increased likelihood to respond to FOLR—l-targeted anti-cancer

therapies at clinically-relevant doses of FOLRl conjugates (e.g., 5 mg/kg xenograft

-36~

dose of a FOLRI immunoconjugate can approximate a 185 mg/m2 in patients).  Thus,

identiﬁcation of individuals having an elevated FOLRl score would help identify those

duals who might respond to a clinically relevant . As described in more detail

below, sensitivity to FOLRI eutics correlated with FOLRl scoring of 2 or higher,

especially with level 3 scoring.  Moreover, expression of more uniform levels of FOLRl

provides  better  correlation  with  therapeutic  beneﬁt.   Thus,  a homogeneous  staining

uniformity is preferred but combinations of increased staining intensity with heterogeneous

staining mity are also indicative of increased FOLRl expression. For example, scores

of greater than 2 hetero is a patient selection criterion for treatment with a FOLRl

therapeutic agent.

{(31%}        FOLRl expression analysis also identiﬁes patients in whom decreased levels of a

FOLRl-targeting anti-cancer therapy ("low dose therapy") can be effective to cause anti-

tumor responses.  As is appreciated in the art, compounds are generally administered at the

st  dosage  that  achieves  the  desired  eutic  response.   This  is  speciﬁcally

important for therapeutics that cause clinical, and often undesired, side effects.  The ability

to recognize those subjects with elevated FOLRl expression levels allows for minimization

of the dosage of the FOLR-l—targeting therapeutic, thus decreasing le side effects,

while ining therapeutic efﬁcacy.
 
 {M41}       As shown herein, FOLRl expression scores of 2 hetero or greater correlate with

increased siveness to anti—FOLRI immunoconjugates.  In certain embodiments, the

increased responsiveness is cachexia, increase in survival time, elongation in time to tumor

progression, reduction in tumor mass, reduction in tumor burden and/or a prolongation in

time to tumor metastasis, time to tumor recurrerice, tumor response, complete se,

l response, stable e, progressive disease, progression free al (PFS), or

overall survival (OS).  In certain embodiments, FOLRl expression scores of 2 hetero or

greater correlate with increasing PFS, DFS, or OS.
 
         Kits for use in the detection methods and correlation to reference/control s

can comprise control (positive and/or negative) or reference samples.  The positive control

or positive reference samples can be derived from tissue culture cell lines, normal tissue

tumor tissue.   Positive and  negative  reference  samples can be  d from  cell  lines

including SW620, T47D, IGROV-l, HeLa, KB, EEG-3, other tumor cell lines, and cell lines

stably or transiently transfected with an expression vector that encodes FOLRl. Normal or

turner tissue samples and tissue culture eeii Eines can also be used as a negative central

reference s. Fer additienai sampies, see Examples 9—} I and Figures 22.3»25.
 
 XI.    Pharmaceutical compositions and therapeutic methods

{@143}        FOLRl-binding agents (including antibodies, immunoconjugates, and ptides)

are useful in a variety of applications including, but not limited to, therapeutic treatment

methods, such as the treatment of cancer. In certain embodiments, the agents are useful for

inhibiting tumor growth, inducing differentiation, reducing tumor volume, and/or reducing

the tumorigenicity of a tumor.   The methods of use may be in vilro, ex vivo, or in viva

methods.    In  certain  embodiments,  the  FOLRl-binding  agent  or  antibody  or

immunoconjugate, or polypeptide is an nist of the human FOLRI to which it binds.

{$144}        In n embodiments, the disease treated with the FOLRl—binding agent or

antagonist  (e.g.,  a huMovl9  antibody  or  immunoconjugate)  is  a  cancer.   In  certain

embodiments, the cancer is characterized by tumors expressing folate receptor 1 to which

the FOLRl-binding agent (e.g., antibody) binds.
 
         The  present  invention  provides  for  s  of  treating  cancer  comprising

stering a therapeuticaliy effective amount of a inding agent to a subject

(e.g.,  a  subject in need of treatment).   In certain embodiments, the  cancer is a cancer

selected from the group consisting of colorectal , pancreatic cancer, lung cancer,

ovarian cancer, liver cancer, breast cancer, brain cancer, kidney cancer, prostate cancer,

gastrointestinal , melanoma, cervical cancer, bladder , glioblastoma, and head

and neck .  In n embodiments, the cancer is ovarian cancer.   In certain

embodiments, the cancer is lung cancer.  In certain embodiments, the subject is a human.
 
         The present invention further provides methods for inhibiting tumor growth using

the antibodies or other agents described herein.  In certain ments, the method of

inhibiting the tumor growth comprises contacting the cell with a FOLRl-binding agent

(e.g., antibody) in Vitro.  For example, an immortalized cell line or a cancer cell line that

expresses FOLRI is cultured in medium to which is added the antibody or other agent to

inhibit tumor growth.  In some embodiments, tumor cells are isolated from a patient sample

such as, for example, a tissue biopsy, pleural effusion, or blood sample and ed in

medium to which is added an FOLRl -binding agent to inhibit tumor growth.
 
         In some embodiments, the method of ting tumor growth comprises contacting

the tumor or tumor cells with the FOLRl-binding agent (e.g., antibody) in Vivo.  In certain



embodiments, contacting a tumor or tumor cell with a FOLRl-binding agent is undertaken

in an animal model. For e, FOLRl-binding agents can be administered to xenografts

expressing one or more FOLRls that have been grown in immunocompromised mice (e.g.
 
 NOD/SCID mice) to inhibit tumor growth.  In some ments, the FOLRE—binding

agent is administered at the same time or shortly after introduction of tumorigenic cells into

the animal to prevent tumor growth.  In some embodiments, the FOLRl-binding agent is

administered as a eutic after the tumorigenic cells have grown to a speciﬁed size.

{$148}        In  certain  embodiments,  the  method  of  inhibiting  tumor  growth  compréses

administering to a subject an therapeutically effective amount of a FOLRl-binding agent.
 
 In certain embodiments, the subject is a human.  In certain embodiments, the subject has a

tumor or has had a tumor removed.
 
         In certain embodiments, the tumor is a tumor selected from the group consisting of

brain tumor, colorectal tumor, pancreatic tumor, lung tumor, ovarian tumor, liver tumor,

breast tumor, kidney tumor, prostate tumor, gastrointestinal tumor, melanoma, cervical

tumor, bladder tumor, glioblastoma, and head and neck tumor.  In certain embodiments, the

tumor is an ovarian tumor.

{915%}        In certain embodiments, the invention es methods of ting tumor growth

using low doses of a FOLRl-binding agent.  The term "low dose" as used herein refers to

the eutically effective dose of a FOLRl—binding agent which is less than the usual or

the conventional dose required to produce the therapeutic effect.
 
         Thus, in certain embodiments the inventions provides methods of treating cancer

using huMovl9 antibody and immunoconjugates.  In n embodiments, the huMovl9

conjugate is huMovl9-SPDB-DM4; huMovl9-sulfo-SPP-DM1; 9—SPF-

DMI;  or  huMovl9-PEG4-Mal-DM4.   In  a  certain  embodiment,  the  huMovl9

immunconjuage is huMovl9-SPDB-DM4, which is also referred to as IMGN853.

{$152}        In certain embodiments, formulations are prepared for storage and use by combining

a puriﬁed antibody or agent of the present invention with a pharrnaceutically acceptable

vehicle (e.g. carrier, excipient) (Remington, The e and Practice of cy 20th

Edition Mack hing, 2000).  Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles include, but:

are not limited to, nontoxic buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other organic acids; salts

such as sodium chloride; antioxidants including ascorbic acid and nine; preservatives

(e.g.    cyldimethylbenzyl    ammonium    chloride;    hexamethonium    chioride;

benzalkonium chloride; benzethonium chloréde; phenol, butyl or benzyl alcohol; alkyl

parahens, such as methyl or propyl paraben; cateehol; resorcinol; cyclohexanol; 3~pentanoh

and ItiaCI‘t‘ﬁSQl/i;  low molecular weight ptides  (cg.  less than about  it} amino  acid

residues);  proteins  such  as  serum  albumin,  gelatin,  or  oglohulins;  hydrophilie

polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine,

histidine,  arginine,  or  lysine;  carbohydrates  such  as  monosaccharides,  disaccharides,

glucose, niarniose, or destrins; chelating agents such as Eli)’l‘A; sugars such as sucrose,

mannitol, ose or sorbitol; saltmt‘onning counter—ions such as sodium; metal complexes

(cg. Lin—protein complexes); and nic surfactants such as 'l‘W'lEElEN or polyethylene

glycol (PEG).

{eras}        The pharmaceutical itions of the present invention, can be stered in

Administration can be topical

any number ot‘ ways for either local or systen'iic treatment.

{such as to mucous membranes including l and rectal delivery) such as transdermal

patches, ointntents, lotions, creams, gels, drops, suppositories, sprays, liquids and powders;

pulmonary (cg, by inhalation or insufflation of powders or aerosols, including by

nehulizer; intratracheal, intranasal, epidermal and transdennal); oral; or parenteral including

intravenous,  intraarterial,  subcutaneous,  intraperitoneal  or  intramuscular  injection  or

infusion; or intracranial leg, hecai or intraventricnlar) administration.

{@154}        An  antibody  or  iimnunoconiugate  of the  invention  can  be  combined  in  a

pharmaceutical combination formulation, or dosing regimen as combination therapy, with a

second  compound  having  ancer  properties.  The  second  compound  of  the

pharmaceutical combination tonnulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary

activities to the ADC of the combination such that they do not adversely affect each other.
 
 Pharmaceutical itions comprising the FOLRl-hinding a;\4 ant and the second anti»

cancer agent are also provided.
 
 U} U!           For the ent of the disease, the appropriate dosage of an antihody or agent of

the present invention depends on the type of disease to he treated, the severity and course of

the e, the responsiveness of the disease, whether the antibody or agent is administered

for therapeutic or preventative purposes, previous therapy, patient’s clinical y, and so

on all at the discretion of the treating physician.  ”l‘he dy or agent can he administered

one time or over a series oftreatinents lasting from several days to several months, or until a

cure is effected or a tion of the disease state is achieved {eg reduction in turner

sire).     Optimal  dosing  schedules  can  he  calculated  from  measurements  of  drug

accumulation in the hotly of the patient and will vary depending on the relative potency of

-49“

an individual antibody or agent. The administering physician can easily ine m

dosages, dosing methodologies and repetition rates. In certain embodiments, dosage is from

0.0] ug to 100 mg per kg of body weight, and can be given once or more daily, weekly,

monthly or yearly.  In certain embodiments, the antibody or other FOLRl-binding agent is

given once every two weeks or once every three weeks. In certain embodiments, the dosage

of the antibody or other binding agent is from about 0.1 mg to about 20 mg per kg

of body weight.  The treating physician can te repetition rates for dosing based on

measured residence times and concentrations of the drug in bodily ﬂuids or s.

{eissi        The combination therapy can provide "synergy" and prove "synergistic", i.e. the

effect ed when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the

effects  that results from  using the compounds  separately. A  synergistic  effect can be

attained when the active ingredients are: (l) co-formulated and administered or delivered

simultaneously in a combined, unit dosage formulation; (2) delivered by alternation or in

parallel  as  separate  formulations;  or  (3)  by  some  other regimen. When  delivered  in

alternation  therapy,  a  synergistic  effect  can  be  attained  when  the  compounds  are

administered or delivered sequentially, e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In

general,  during  alternation  therapy,  an  effective  dosage  of each  active  ingredient  is

administered sequentially, i.e. serially, whereas in combination therapy, effective dosages of

two or more active ingredients are administered er.

{3157}        Embodiments of the present disclosure can be r defined by nce to the

ing non-limiting examples, which describe in detail preparation of certain antibodies

of the present disclosure and methods for using antibodies of the present disclosure.  It will

be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications, both to materials and

methods, can be practiced t departing from the scope of the present sure.
 
 EXAMPLES

        It  is understood that the  examples  and  embodiments  described herein are  for

illustrative puposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be

ted to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of

this application.
 
         The Folate Receptor-l (FOLRl) has been reported to be highly expressed in ovarian

tumors and expressed at high to moderate levels in brain, , bladder, endometrioid,

-41,

lung, pancreatic, and renal carcinomas.  However, the expression of FOLK} is limited in

normal tissues and includes kidney, lung, d plexus, pancreas, breast, thyroid? ovary,

te, and lung.

{316%}         Methods  have  been  reported  that  quantify FOLRl  using  fresh  frozen  tissue

nates.  Whole ”tissue homogenates cannot distinguish cytoplasmic from membraneassoeiated

expression and y frozen samples are not amenable in the clinical setting.
 
 However, formalin ﬁxed parafﬁn embedded {FFPE} samples can be archived for patients in

the clinic.
 
 Exempie i

{($161}          lininunolzistoehemieal  staining  of FQLRl  in  cell,  samples  -  manual  s

Fornialin fixed parafﬁn embedded eeli s and tissues were used as test samples with the

following staining reagents and eoni‘litions.

lHC Antibodies                          FFPE assay conditions

l‘ """                                        W} MMWW...“

l..16?,_ Amihie—M...“_   l"SEB§H_NNMM““     COHdlthI’lﬁ' ' mmmm“

e mouse onal anti-hiiFOLRl            Antigen val    Borg (Biocaré) PH

clone BN32 (Leiea # Ni; E.-L-

lRalpha)

Avidin/Biotin;

:       Blocking Steps

iimmnnoﬂen: Piokai‘yotie inant        mwwipergggie

protein corresponding :0 189 amino             Test or Control       2.0 ug/mL

aeia‘ls ofthe external domain ofthe folate       Article

We“ a135131014111ij   ipﬂuem      mammo2%‘

lCOﬂlI‘G} A i                                                       i‘horseserurnﬁ

{giggles} (miner: Clone we eeozsii     Secondary Antib9dy l 10 ng/rnL

‘ﬁeeondaryAnilmd‘i’                       ‘Detection System*  i AVidin-Biotin-     i

ieBiotinVlated horse anti-mouse (Veetor,                              peroxidase-         l

ione ijis1&le>         Complex; ABC

(Vector Labs)

i                           i DAB(DakoL

> 5 min            E

39162}        E‘onnaiin—ﬁxed  parafﬁn-embedded  (FFPE)  patient.  ovarian  tumor  biopsies  and

ovarian xenogral’i tumors were stained with the murine anti-FQLRi antibody elone BNEQ,

(Leica Cat 4N(.ll-lRalplia) and a conmi nulls“(3‘1 fioni Conner.  Following antigen



retrieval in pH 9.5 buffer, slides were blocked with 2% horse serum plus avidin. Slides were

washed in PBS, and incubated at reein temperature fer {if} minutes with the attti~FOlRl er

eentrel mitigGl antibetiy, followed by 30 minutes with laintinylated anti—meme lgsfi and 4G

minntee  with  avidinbiotinperoxidase  eemplex  to  detect  bound  secendary  antibeiyi

incubation for 5 minutes with DAB (33 xﬁﬁbtjl’lv’lflllle tetralmtreehlerid.) resultedin

the color signal. Slides were eeenterstained with hematexyiin

        Ri staining intensity and distrihution patterns were seated relative to central

lgG staining {_nenepeeiﬁe). Intensity was sceie01 en a scale of O 1103 (O-==no staining, 1 :

weak, 2 = moderate and 3   strong) and distribution was scored as focal (<25% ei’ cells

stained),  heterogeneous  (25-75%  of  cells  stained)  and homogeneous  (>75%  of cells

stained).
 
         FFPE samples were d from tumor micro arrays, as well as human tissue

blocks from seven different , as outlined below.
 
 EFF}? Test Samples

_\\“\“\\“\“““

i“lltrnan Tenet Miere \nays DthllpilOﬁ                     Commerc1al Source    5

il“A“

96__cores from ”3 types of cancer3—3_________________________________________________                                                                                                             eMued tumet                                                              BiomaxCat# MC961

eOt-ariantame}             _6_4_ cores _M a1nCat# T8235725t

i$38le _

9Ie__s_                                 B10maxCat#L%

eCeleimtal ma     :85 ate cores               B10maXCat#BC000110

“——“T‘“”

ElemMeme    sNILraher  cial So ce

LeBreast 'l'nmeru

etlel ereetal Carei

“““““““                                                          CHTN

{$1653        The FOLRl test article, marine anti~FOLRi atone BN32, was tested to determine

binding speeiticit‘v tn the huFOLRl antigi.1}. Using tne reperted IHC staining methods

FFPE sections of 30049 and 300—19 transfeeted with huFCﬁLRi (3004(Ii/FO'LRL) cell

pellets were stained and evaiuated fer FOUU.  The FOLRl test article speciﬁcally stained

300~l9/FOLR1+ cells and retumed tie staining in 38049 cells (3 home and negative,

-43,

respectively). These s demonstrate that clone BN3.2 speciﬁcally targets the huFOLRl

n. (Figure l).
 
         The BN3.2 antibody was also used to detect FOLRl expression on tissue samples.
 
 The immunoreactivity of each test and control article with tissues and cell pellets was

determined by the consulting pathologist, Dr. David Dorfman.  The cell pellet controls were

first evaluated followed by tissue samples. For each tissue evaluated, a ption of the

staining intensity and staining uniformity was reported.  The staining intensity score and

uniformity scales are described below.  The ﬁnal reported score for each tissue sample

ted is the score of the test article minus the score of the respective l article.
 
 The ABC level for each sample was estimated by comparing the staining score to the

calibrated cell pellet ls.
 
 InLeHSIty(amountofstaln) l   Tlnil‘urmiiy (nmnberafstained cells}

:                                 \

\“i                                         0                ve

\                                                         :

lwwweak ,__M_, olNegatwe

2 Moderate FOC31¢E<2V

Strong              Heterogeneous(hetero)E2575/

"""" """""""""veryStronrlHomogeneous(homrww>75/

{0157}        Antibodies bound per cell (ABC) values were determined for the FOLRl-positive

tumor cell lines (KB, IGROVl, JEG3, and ) using anti-FOLRl-Phycoerythyn'n,

BD brite Beads, and ﬂow cytometry and were shown to have different ABC values.
 
 (Figure 2).  Staining conditions were optimized for FOLRl so that the cell pellets prepared

from the FOLRl-positive tumor cell lines showed varying levels of staining intensity by

IHC.  The KB cell pellet exhibited very strong (3+) homogeneous staining with high

intensity, the IGROVl cell pellet showed strong (3) staining, the JEG3 cell pellet showed

moderate (2-3) heterogeneous staining, while staining of the OVCAR3 cell pellet showed

low intensity (1—2) heterogeneous staining.  The FOLRl staining intensity trends observed

from the cell pellets correspond to the reported ABC values, where KB cells exhibited the

highest ABC value of 1,700,000, IGROV—l cells exhibited the next highest ABC value of

0, JEG-3 exhibited a lower ABC value or 41,000 ABC, while OVCAR3 cells

-44_

showed the lowest ABC: value of 4,000. The staining results and respective ABt‘IZ vaiues are

iisted in the table below.
 
 ABC values and respective staining results for huFOLRl on cell lines and respective cell pellets.
 
 FQLR i

KB                 1,709,000

EGROV}                 260,000                  3 heme

a'B'EGS                                4i ,sus                             2~3 hetero

UV’CARE         E          4,000

Additional cell lines, including Capan-l, Jar, Hec—l-A, Hec—l—B, lshikawa, NCI H292, BT474EEI,

PA-l, OV—90, CaOv-4, CaOv—E, A2780, Ovcar-S, Ovcar—4, HCT—lS, 786-0, NCI H838, NCI H

522, NCl H2110, NCI H1734, NCI H228, and FU.OV-3 were tested and found to be FOLRl

positive but FOLRl sion levels and sensitivity to the anti-FOLRl immunoconjugate activity

varied.  For reference es, cell lines having consistent FOLRl expression and ivity to

anti—FOLRI immunoconjugates are preferred.

{0168}        Particularly important was that the lHC method was able to reliable ed FOLRl

expression in ovarian carcinomas and non-small cell lung cancer ) tissue s.
 
 As shown in Figure 3, FOLRl expression could reliably be detected in ovarian carcinoma

and NSCLC samples scored 2 hetero to 3 homo. ABC values for these samples ranged from

approximately 41,000 for samples scored 2 hetero, to greater than 260,000 for samples

scored 3 homo.  As shown in Figure 4, high staining intensity and mity of ng

was also observed in ovarian carcinomas, lung adenocarcinomas, and bronchioloalveloar

carcinomas.  Furthermore, expression of FOLRI in NSCLC samples (Figure 5) and in

ovarian carcinomas (Figure 6) were further found to be predominantly zed to the

membrane in tissue samples.  Expression was detected across multiple samples from the

same, as well as different tumor samples.   Interestingly, none of the samples from

colorectal, breast, or small cell lung tumors were scored greater than 2 hetero.


 
 In vivo efﬁcacy ofhuMov19-PEG4Mal-DM4 and huMov19—SPDB-DM4 ates in

comparison with similar non-targeting conjugates in a KB xenograft model

        FOLRl—targeting cleavable conjugate huMov19-SPDB—DM4 in comparison with

rgeting huC242—SPDB-DM4, and non-cleavable conjugate huMov19-PEG4-Mal-

DM4 in comparison with non—targeting —PEG4Mal-DM4 were tested using an

established xenograft model of KB cells (very high FOLRl expression, 3+ homozygous by

manual IHC) ted subcutaneous into SCID mice. Mice were randomized by body

weight into treatment groups and treated either singly (SPDB ates) on day 3 post cell

inoculation, or three times weekly on days 3, 10, and 17 post cell inoculation with 5 and 10

mg/kg of a conjugate, respectively.  The median tumor volume of the different treatment

groups is plotted in Figure  7.  The treatments with either huMov19—SPDB-DM4,  or

huMov19-PEG4Mal-DM4 ed in a decrease in median tumor volume as compared to

the PBS control, while the treatments with either of the respective non-targeting conjugate

did not produce any signiﬁcant effect.
 
 Example 3

Dose-response anti—tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in OVCAR-3 human n

carcinoma xenografts

{317%}        The anti-tumor effect of IMGN853 was evaluated in an established subcutaneous

xenograft model of ovarian carcinoma. SCID mice were inoculated with 3 ovarian

carcinoma cells (1 x 107 cells/animal) injected subcutaneously into the right ﬂank. When the

tumors d about 100 m3 in size (21 days after tumor cell inoculation), the mice were

randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were treated with a single

intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of animals

received a single intravenous injection of PBS. Tumor growth was monitored by measuring

tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was calculated with the formula: length x width x

height x 1/2.
 
         IMGN853 was highly active against 3 tumors (IHC score of 3 homozygous

using manual IHC methods) in terms of tumor growth inhibition (T/C = 0 %) at both the 2.5

and 5.0 mg/kg dose levels (Figure 8). There were complete tumor regressions (CR) in 6/6

mice treated with IMGN853 at 5.0 mg/kg. There were partial tumor regressions (PR) in 6/6

-46..

mice and CR in 4/6 mice d with IMGN853 at the 2.5 mg/kg dose level. 3 was

active at the 1.2 mg/kg dose level, resulting in a T/C of 18%, with 2/6 PR and 1/6 CR.
 
 According to NCI standards the T/C values ranging from 10% to 42% are considered to be

active, T/C of less than 10% are considered to be highly active.
 
 Example 4

Dose-response anti—tumor ty of IMGN853 treatment in IGROV-l human ovarian

carcinoma xenografts.

{017.2}          The anti—tumor effect of IMGN853 was ted in an established subcutaneous

xenograft model of ovarian carcinoma. SCID mice were inoculated with IGROV-l ovarian

carcinoma cells (1 X 107 cells/animal) injected subcutaneously into the right ﬂank. When the

tumors reached about 100 mm3 in size (7 days after tumor cell inoculation), the mice were

randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were treated with a single

intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of animals

received a single intravenous injection of PBS. Tumor growth was monitored by measuring

tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was ated with the formula: length X width x

height X 1/2.
 
         IMGN853 was highly active against IGROV-l tumors (IHC score of 3 homozygous

by manual methods) at the 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg dose levels, resulting in T/C values of 5% for

both dose levels (Figure 9). There were partial tumor regressions in 5/6 and 6/6 mice in the

2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg groups, respectively. IMGN853 was inactive at the 1.2 mg/kg dose (T/C

= 47%).
 
 Example 5

Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 treatment in OV-90 human ovarian

oma xenografts.
 
         The anti-tumor effect of IMGN853 was evaluated in an ished subcutaneous

xenograft model of ovarian carcinoma. SCID mice were inoculated with OV-90 ovarian

carcinoma cells (1 X 107 animal) injected aneously into the right ﬂank. When

the tumors reached about 100 m3 in size (13 days after tumor cell inoculation), the mice

were randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were d with a

single intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg.  A control group of

-47r

animals received a singie intravenous injection of PBS.   A, control  group of animals

received PBS  administered intravenously a". the same schedule.  Tumor growth was

monitored lay measuring tumor size twice per week. or size was calculated with the

formula: length x width x height X 1/3..
 
 {M75}       lMGNSSZS was active against OV~9C¥ tumors {ii-EC score of 3 lretero~homo by

manual methods) at the 2,5 and 5.0 rag/kg dose ievels, resulting in T/C values of 36 and.

18%.», respectively (Figure l0). ‘l‘wo s had partial, tumor regressions in the SiO trig/leg

the treatment groups. EMGNSSB was

group; there were no other tumor regressions in any of

inactive at the 1.2 mg/kg dose (T/C = 77%).
 
 Exanqﬁeo

Dose-response anti-tumor activity of IMGN853 ent in SKOV-3 human n

carcinoma xenografts.

[0176}        The anti-tumor effect of IMGN853 was evaluated in an established subcutaneous

xenograft model of ovarian carcinoma. SCID mice were inoculated with SKOV—3 ovarian

carcinoma cells (1 x 107 cells/animal) ed subcutaneously into the right ﬂank. When the

tumors reached about 100 mm3 in size (26 days after tumor cell inoculation), the mice were

randomly divided into four groups (6 animals per group). Mice were treated with a single

intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.2, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of animals

received a single intravenous injection of PBS. Tumor growth was monitored by measuring

tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was calculated with the formula: length X width X

height x 1/2.

        lMGNSﬁS was inactive against SKOV—B tumors (lllC score of 1—3 focal by manuai

methods) at all , with growth of ihlilGNiéSfi—treated tumors paraileling the PBS control

group (Figure ll). There was no data analysis performed; and the study was temiinated

early based on the inactivity or? lMGNSSCi in this model.

esponse antiutumor activity of llvltiiN853 treatment in KB human cervical

arcinoma xenografts.
 
 {M78}       The antiwtumor effect of lMGNSSES was evaluated in an established aneous

xeuograft cervical adenocarcinoma model. SCED mice were inoculated with KB cervical

,4gr

adenocarcinoma cells (1  X 107 cells/animal) injected aneously into the right ﬂank.
 
 When the tumors reached about 100 mm3 in size (7 days after tumor cell inoculation), the

mice were randomly divided into four groups (6 s per group). Mice were treated with

a single intravenous injection of IMGN853 at 1.0, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg. A control group of

animals ed a single intravenous injection of PBS.  Tumor growth was monitored by

measuring tumor size twice per week. Tumor size was calculated with the formula: length X

width X height X 1/2.
 
         IMGN853 was highly active against KB tumors in terms of tumor growth inhibition

(T/C = 0 %) at both the 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg dose levels (Figure 12). Six of six mice in the 5.0

mg/kg and ﬁve of siX mice in the 2.5 mg/kg treatment group had CR5, and remained tumor-

free to the end of the study (day 120). The 1.0 mg/kg dose was active, resulting in a T/C of

37%, but there were no partial or complete regressions.
 
 Example 8

lmmunohistochemical staining of FOLRl in formalin ﬁxed parafﬁn embedded (FFPE)

samples— ted methods.

{0180}        The IHC staining assay uses IVD class I reagents including the Novocastra FOLRl

antibody (Novocastra/Leica Cat # NCI-L-FRalpha, clone BN3.2) as the test article and the

Leica Bond RX automated r. Bound test or control article were detected by incubation

wéth the Leica Bond Reﬁne detection system which includes a post primary reagent (rabbit

anti—mouse IgG), followed by a polyneer reagent (goat anti—rabbit polymer) and 3,3-

Diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (DAB) gen. FFPE samples were d with

the speciﬁed concentration(s) of primary antibody (prepared by diluting in Leica diluent

FOLRl) as outlined below.
 
 IHC Antibodies

wFolate Rec$8}'Kiﬁﬁg‘ZﬁBQSEEQEE/Leica‘E‘éiQiiiicil‘ffﬁiigiﬁii?

Test article”                   Lot 159506), murine, clone BN3.2, liquid concentrate: 75

ug/mL

IgGl an Coulter Cat.# 6602872, LotsZS7SPSO4-23

Control article”               and 2S7SPSO4-26) stock concentrationzl mg/mL, murine,

clone 2T8—2F5

_49“

FFPE Assay Method using Leica Bond RX

Amman                 Time

minutes

1333515112                 ?“

-— w:Perokide(Reﬁne

mdooenous Peiexjidasc Blank                     kit component)m5m1nuteswwm

fest Arti‘cie                         F:0LR1 at  1.9 ug/mL1n Leica      15 minutesuwm

diluent

Winn“‘“"llw"mm““V“;N‘m‘mmmmary,,   Reag€n¥kReﬁne‘     “““““““““““““

‘                                                                                                 E

kit)

POWEW  E'Iriiiiiitégmj

lVIlXedDAB kit)“      W10mlnutesmm:

:(JouriterstammwHematoxylm (Refine kit)      "5mhiutes WM

{$181}        All  stained  samples  were  evaluated  and  scored.   Control  samples  were  ﬁrst

evaluated followed by test samples (whole sections and individual cores from the TMAs).
 
 For each tumor tissue or cell pellet evaluated, a description of the staining intensity and

respective proportion of tumor cells stained was reported.  Membrane associated staining

was recorded for every sample.  When duplicate scores were evaluated from one patient,

only the higher score was included in the analysis.  If the score described only cytoplasmic

staining then the ﬁnal score was reported as zero (0). Intensity and uniformity were given to

each sample as described in the table outlined below.  Staining ity and distribution

patterns were scored relative to control IgG staining peciﬁc). Intensity was scored on

t=== moderate and 3 E strong) and distrébution

a scale of 0 to 3 (0 = no staining, 1 = weak, 2

was scored as focal (<25% of cells d), heterogeneous (25-75% of cells stained) and

homogeneous (>75% of cells stained). In normal tissue, only the deﬁned substructures were

ted when calculating intensity and proportion.
 
 IHC Scoring System ting of Intensity and Uniformity Scales

Intensrty (brlghtness of stain)

f     intensity wed            Intens1ty Category              Ity Reported

‘                                      l

O                        Negatlve

{H                Very Weak

intensity (brivhmess QfSEain)

RRoak to lviodercrte

2                       Moderate

2—3                  Moderateto Strong

E9182}        FFPE tumor samples were derived from tumor micro arrays, as well as human tissue

blocks from seven ent tumors, as outlined below.
 
 FFPE Test Samples: TMAs

Anatomic Site                                                         Number of     Total # of

Cores per      Patients

Patient

E Kidney           Pantomics     KIC1501             R-KID-     2               69

122711-1                         1

Pantomics   i LUC1501           EP-T-ARR-LNG—   E 2              70

122711 1         E               a

“‘“EW”   W ‘  777777

Tristar         69571059/TA1249   E-PTARR-OVA-   E

‘                                       E122711 1           :

-5        RR-OVA-  E

122111 1        a             E

OVClSOl         EP-T—ARR—OVA-  E

12271 l- l

......        WE.”      “WWW...“

...m                                   E;...........»....

6957109l/TA1322   E-PT-ARR-OVA-

E010912- l

l                                                                      ......"-—_

I .......«......“

,,                            m““W

E Uterus (Endo—     Pantomics     EMClSOl            PT-ARR-EME-

Emetrium)                    _WEWWMMM1227ll—l..

+._m“......“.....
 
 Various           Pantomics     MTUZESTW         P—T-ARR—

E                                   I                         12271l—mlVVVVVVVVVV

w...;..;.;(._;«.‘........... ...7...7....r.r....n..»““““an.muu...................._

«SE,

FFPE Test Samples: Whole Sections

.“xx“.“wunn“NV“...VVVVVV V.VVWVV_V_V__.“\“»““

Organ  iCode             Source      Diagnosis (per Source Documentation)

Ovary  Tanﬂmijﬂu 1                 Unknown      endometroid adenocarcinoma

,V;;,,,,JV bJ                          genex     g endometrord adenocarcinoma

,;,,,,;.;V,,, LN                          CHTN             arcinoma, mixed with features of endomehod

serous and clear

W...          VVVVVVVVVVVV“Wm

4                                        adenocarcmoma, high grade w/ mixed papillary, serous,

g                                                endometrloidandclear cell areas                         5

i; serous papillaryadenocarcinoma

Vme‘mmmcm“VVVVVWMM”...“me

SBI‘OUS adenocarcinoma

VVVVVrVr.r.r_r_““»»»‘“‘mme.
 
 Proteogenex    +.,,,,,,,,,

....................mm

‘ genex

serous papillary adenocarcinoma                        1

I1      VVVVVVVVVVVVVV.VVVsccVVVVVtcccccccccccVVVVV.aaass.......5cccccrr..............4

adenocarcmoma, poorly entiated

adenocarcinoma, acinar welldifferentiatedwith

bronchioloalveolar featuresa““Wuug.s........VVVVVVVV.VVVVVVVVV—r..““‘»»““““ml

adenocarcmoma, mucinous features

adenocarcinoma

adenocarcinoma

l «A.

adenocarcinoma (bronchioloalveolar) carcinoma

adenocarcmoma

adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, with clear

3 cell features

:                                                         l

a                                                         t

<                                                         t

i             ..s...‘.V..VVVVVVVVVVVVVVV.V~‘ccccc‘cceec.ccccVVVVaaaa....a......ss_..rr..rrrr‘.............t..VVVVVVVV_____Vv;;

        Cells (tumor cells or transfected cells) were formalin ﬁxed and parafﬁn embedded

(FFPE). FFPE cell pellet samples shown to exhibit varying ranges of FOLRI sion by

ﬂow cytometry and normal human tissues were used in this study to characterize ve

and negative controls and for is of speciﬁcity.  The cell pellets exhibiting varying

levels of FOLRl and the respective scores are reported below.  There is a poor correlation

between staining scores and the respective FOLRl expression levels (antibodies bound per



cell, ABC, determined by calibrated ﬂow cytometry) in the cell pellets.  For example a

score of 1—3 hetero is given for the SW620 and l exhibiting 40,098 and 565,481

ABC values, respectively.  Additionally, Hela cells showing an ABC value of 1.5 million

resulted in a score of 2-3 hetero while 300.19/FR1 exhibiting 830,003 ABC returned a

higher score of 3 homo.
 
 Final Scores for Celi Pellets at a Test e Concentration of 1.9 ug/mL

§ {39.31 Line                            aABC Value

rrrrrr              “1:“Staining Score »“““

Wu““u....n~“~“vw_»__rrrrrrrrrr          w—v—_                                               §

3 83137621}                               411,888                                I-3 hetero

T471)                                                         l -2 hetero

—(nun........“WW“.“way.“u.»»»‘ “.Tmﬁé

Wuuuu.«....VVwwwww«Whe‘““»»»“‘Wu——       _

1URUV 1                  L565,481                     1-3 hetero                  g

30019/ FRl                830003                    3homo                    E

HBEA             E1 500587            tero

KB                  "14,000,000               3homo

aThe reported ABC Valueis anaverageofant1bod1es boundpercell1n thecellpopulation and“

was determined as follows: a concentration of 1.0 X 108M of anti—FOLRl ~PE (1 :1) was used

ine ABC values on the respective cell line using ﬂow cytometry s and Quantibrite

TM Beads (BD Biosciences).
 
 -         The ﬂow cytometry histograms represent the distrébution of cells versus the number

of anti-FOLRl  bound per cell (FOLRl  expression level).   Both the histograms and

respective  IHC  staining  results  indicate  that  each  of  these  cells  lines  contain  a

heterogeneous tion of cells having a broad range of FOLRl  expression.   The

exception is the 300.19/FR1 cell line showing botl: a m ﬂow cytometry histogram and

IHC staining score.  This data suggests that cell lines each expressing a more m level

of FOLRl may provide a better correlation between ABC values and respective staining

scores.  Although the assay demonstrated positive staining in all FOLRl-positive cell pellet

controls, there is a poor ation between staining scores and the respective FOLRl

expression levels from most of these cell pellets. Therefore, cell pellets from this group

could not be identiﬁed as high-, medium—, and low-expressing controls. Representative

photographs and rams depictirzg FOLRl expression in cell lines by IHC and ﬂow

cytometry are shown in FIGURE 13.

{111353          To determine assay conditions, a range of dilutions of test and control article were

tested to select conditions that exhibit an appropriate level of sensitivity. Experiments were

-53..

performed on a panel of FFPE samples including FOLRl-positive cell s and a TMA

consisting of FOLRl positive and negative normal tissues (adrenal (cortex/medulla), breast

(ducts  and  s/connective  ),  fallopian  tube  (surface  epithelium/muscle  wall),

kidney (tubules/ glomeruli), lung (type I/Il pneumocytes/interalveolar connective tissues),

pancreas  (ducts/islets  of  Langerhans),  salivary  gland  (ducts/stroma),  skin  (eccrine

/epidermis), stomach (surface epithelium/submucosa)), and whole sections of tumor

s (10 ovarian tumor samples and 10 lung tumor samples).  Each sample was stained

with a serial dilution of test article concentrations (0.25, 0.5, 0.9, 1.9, 3.8, and 7.5 ug/mL) or

control article concentration of 1.9 ug/mL or 9.8 ug/mL.  The relative staining intensities

for each dilution were compared for each sample to identify the optimal dilution. The

criteria for optimal dilution was a dilution which  1) caused no background staining in

samples stained with isotype control 2) caused no ng in negative tissue controls stained

with test article and 3) differentiated between varying levels of membrane-associated

FOLRl expression among test samples representing the indication of interest (ovarian

tumor, endometrial tumor, NSCLC tumor, and kidney tumor FFPE tissues).  Of the ﬁve

dilutions of test article evaluated, the tration of 1.9 ug/mL showed the best dynamic

automated protocols (Bake and Dewax

range in staining results using the Leica Bond RX

Protocol, HIER using the ER2 for 20 minutes protocol, and the staining protocol IHC F-

With Extra Rinses).
 
 Example 9

Identiﬁcation and terization of controls that characterize the dynamic range of the assayautomated

ng methods

        Quality controls:  Human normal salivary gland, lung and pancreas were identiﬁed

as positive tissue ls to be ed in each assay to verify that the staining procedure

performed as expected.  Human normal esophagus was identiﬁed as a negative control.
 
 These controls were characterized as follows: in order to establish ls which cover the

dynamic range of the assay, a tissue microarray (TMA) consisting of several FOLRl

ve and negative normal tissue s expected to exhibit the dynamic range of the

assay was used as an assay veriﬁcation control during the optimization and validation

phases.   Four normal tissues with identiﬁed structures in this TMA were identiﬁed as

suitable assay controls as follows: respiratory epithelium of normal human lung (score of 2



homo); ducts of normal human pancreas (score of " homo apical); intercalated ducts of

normal human salivary gland {score of l~2 hetero); and normal human esophagus (score of

0) Over a total of 5; assay runs the identiﬁed le assay controls from this TMA gave

identical results. These results indicate that the selected ls give consistent results and

span the dynamic range of the assay.

ures in Normal ’if'issues identiﬁed as Controls that Span the Dynamic Range of the

Assay

ENtirin;E           iii}Structure    StainingScoremiim   Staining Scoreﬁest‘i

E'G:gen         :

(controi article)      article)

EEsophagiix    kill stmctnre;        0 ive)       Eﬁiiicganm;

livaryGland lotei‘calated ducts   NEW0 (negative) WE i~2 here

i                WWW

RespiratoryEpitheimvo‘iElhomo

NPantria:---~WEDncts              (E) {negati“3)meMMwE”honiowapitai

[\rpicaE staining is deﬁnedas polarized nonuinfmm membrane staining

e 10

Perfom‘iance analysis oftite automated staining method.

{$187}        The intended use of this assay is to speciﬁcally detect FOLRl reproducibly and with

the  appropriate  sensitivity  to  differentiate  varying  levels  and  varying  mity  of

membrane—associated FOLRI expression (optimal dynamic range) in ovarian, endometrial,

NSCLC, and kidney FFPE tumor tissues.   Therefore,  speciﬁcity, reproducibility, and

sensitivity were considered as mance ia.
 
         The speciﬁcity and sensitivity of the study assay was evaluated by comparison of

normal tissue ng with the study assay to previously reported results.  Staining s

frorn this study were compared with corresponding ng results from Scorer et al 2010

(A Fall Immunohistochemical Evaluation of a Novel Monoclonal Antibody to Folate

or alpha. The Novocastra Journal of Histopathology, REAGENTS: 2010(3):8-12,

describing the same antibody clone BN3.2) with FFPE normal tissue and from the Tissue

Cross Reactivity (TCR) study using IMGN853 (huMovl9 (M9E46A) antibody) on fresh.

frozen normal tissue (ImmunoGen Report lMH28—OO3). Comparison of the staining results

from each method indicate that the three assays showed generally similar normal tissue

staining proﬁles with differing relative sensitivities, with the Scorer assay being least

sensitive, the study assay (IMH28-011) having intermediate sensitivity, and the TCR study

method being the most sensitive. Some structures showed positive staining in the two more

ive methods (study assay and TCR assay) only. There were no examples of positive

staining in the least ive assay used by Scorer that were not also positive in the study

assay and TCR method. These results demonstrate that the speciﬁcity and sensitivity of the

study assay is appropriate for the evaluation of FOLRl sion in normal tissues.
 
         The speciﬁcity and sensitivity of the study assay was further characterized by

staining and evaluating a panel of tumor TMAs consisting of ovarian, endometrial, NSCLC,

and kidney tumors (a sample set representative of the assay’s intended clinical use).
 
 Positive staining was tently localized to the tumor tissue with normal adjacent tissue

components including , blood vessels, lymphocytes and normal organ tissue staining

negative or positive as expected.  For each subtype of either ovarian carcinoma or NSCLC,

the distribution of staining scores among TMAs from the different vendors showed a similar

distribution  of scores  ting this method  is  not  sensitive  to  various  ﬁxation  and

processing conditions.  Because the distribution patterns were similar among the TMAS, the

data from the different arrays was combined and scores were categorized. A summary of

these scores for tumor subtypes that contained 20 or more samples per subtype are listed in

the following tables. As summarized in these tables, a dynamic range of scores is noted for

each tumor type and indicates that this assay shows the appropriate sensitivity to distinguish

varying levels and varying uniformity of membrane—associated FOLRl  expression in

ovarian, endometrial, NSCLC, and kidney FFPE tumor tissues.  Representative photos of

serous n, endometroid ovarian, NSCLC, endometrial carcinoma, and renal clear cell

carcinoma are ed in s 14-18.  Additional representatitive photos useful, for

example, in a staining guide or diagnostic kit, are shown in Figures 23—25.  These studies

indicate the assay is speciﬁc and has the appropriate sensitivity for use as a diagnostic or

companion diagnostic reagent.
 
 Summary of Staining Scores for Predominant es of Ovarian Tumors

Subg"“p““;"""        “E‘Siliﬁglvumser

1                       We)

~56-

Eff} RS

l)Focal staining patterns were excluded

Summary of Staining Scores for NSCLC Tumors

Sample Number

§Tota1  23      722

hetero"A

heteroa                                =

L Fugitiww

iAdeho-     A11b                                             s 47       20

icarcmoma            $100)  (25)   .  (58)

Spec1ﬁed    7

Bronchiolo-                ~~

(100)(29)

;alveolar     !                  i (71)

w 7777777777    gm“...”EmrrrrrrrrrrL                                     “71;

Squamous   All        74     l

100    1         5

oma  i           in   )5;()W:    ( )

) Focal

stainlng patterns were excluded

All adenocarcinoma s were included except the speciﬁed bronchioloalveolar carcinoma samples

_ 57

Summary of ng Scores for Adenocarcinoma ofthe Endometrium and Clear Cell

Tumors of the Kidney

WW,  “uh...“‘e

Tumor/Subﬂpe i Sample Number

1:%)

i                     Exec“..‘.\w.m.n.}..~m......m..V“w.wV__vmv.r.““““ee» m“           i        mm...“tT."nmﬁmmzzzrﬁteeee

i                     a Total   E 23         _2         2 1        1-3 focal

k                                     3 Any          Negative

i           E heteroa    heteroa    “               : Positivity

l            :                                       ‘

We.“a»... .w...wmvw.‘wr                  .ze..““‘““»“““

._._.......... wﬁvw

eeeeecee‘“

i Endometnum/   58      5         3      E 30      10       40        18

i Aden0_               u..u“~§un~~ﬁnwwwmea    »»»»»“““““

E un“......u“ui,u.“w“vVV__-;;;=A.x»§\»»\\\.“W                                                                                       (100)     (9)          40)      E (52)                    (69)          (31)

carcinoma                                                  a

{gvvvvvv,_                           w                             ,,,,,, t

3 Cell                 (100)     (0)                    E (68)       (18)         (85)          (15)

WWW      “WW“

FoEai“;i;1‘Hng§aEEﬁ wereieileiiiied

        The precision of the study assay was igated by evaluating intra—run and inter-

run reproducibility of the assay using three FFPE tumor tissue samples of ovarian, NSCLC,

or kidney tumor where each sample exhibits either a high, medium, or low score. For intra~

run reproducibility, nine slides each containing a section of lung, ovarian, and renal tumor

were placed at nine random locations on the Leica Bond RX.  For inter-run reproducibility,

three slides containing sections from the same sample were d on three different days.
 
 All slides from both intra-run and inter—run reproducibility experiments were evaluated and

showed equivalent staining results for each respective sample: lung tumor (high: 3 homo),

ovarian  tumor  (medium:  2  hetero),  and  renal  tumor  (low:  1-2  hetero).  This  data

demonstrated ucibility across tissue types with low, medium and high level of

expression.
 
 Example 1 l

A FOLRl expression score ofZ 2 geneous by IHC is a patient selection criterion for

treatment with IMGN853.
 
         The levels of FOLRl-expression in tumor cell lines were determined using the an

antibody-l)E  conjugate  4-PE)  and  the  QuantiBRlTE  system.  Three  ovarian

carcinoma cell lines (Igrov—l, Skov-3 and Ovear-3), a choriocarcinoma cell line leg-3 and a

cervical carcinoma cell line KB were included in the study. In order to obtain reliable ABC

values, the binding experiments with an antibody—PE conjugate should be performed at a

-58—

saturating concentration (concentration, at which all available binding sites are occupied by

the  conjugate).  To  determine  such  concentration  for  the  -PE  conjugate,  we

performed binding experiments on a panel of FOLRl—positive cell lines with various

FOLRl expression. The cells were incubated with a wide concentration, range of FRl—24-PE

conjugate for two hours on ice, washed with FACS buffer (PBS with 1% BSA), ﬁxed with

1% formaldehyde  in PBS  and  analyzed  on  a FACSCalibur ﬂow  cytometer.   At  a

concentration of 1x10'8 M the conjugate saturated cell e binding sites on all tested cell

lines lgrov-l, Jeg-3, Skov-3, Ovcar-3, and KB. In subsequent binding ABC-experiments

-PE conjugate was used at concentration of 1x10"8 M. Each sample was analyzed in

triplicates; several independent experéments were performed on each cell line. The highest

expression was found on KB cells with the approximate ABC value of 4,000,000i300,000,

followed by Igrov-l  and Jeg-3 cell lines with the ABC values of 400,000i85,000 and

150,000i75,000, respectively. Two cell lines,  Skov—3  and Ovcar—3, had low FOLRl

expression, 20,000i10,000 and 7,00014,000 ABC, respectively. A cant experimentto-experément

variation of ABC values was observed for Jeg—3 cells, where the ABC—values

varied from 40,000 to 300,000. This varéability likely reﬂected some biological properties

of the cell line rather than the assay ility, since ABC values obtained for the other

analyzed cell lines were much less variable (see table below).
 
 “Celi‘line    l

i            ABC                     Experiment--toexPehEIehi‘QQIii

{Mean i ‘53» it)”          The highest ABC          The lowest ABC

,                                                                                                           ,1

i                                                1         ered                 registered

KB        00 3:300000,4     4,500,000““ WW3800000W

,,        ‘i‘

Igrov-l        %   400,000j:85000 5            480,000                   0

Jeg-3            150,000 i:75,000, 14      imwwm          40w000w

Skov—3“       r

“3: 10,000 2m 10,OOOWWWWa

SDStandarddev1ation n- number ofindependent experiments

ABC values were determined by a FACS based assay with FR1-24 PE—labeled antibody and

QuantiBRITE system. Mear: i Standard Deviation (SD) was calculated for independent

experiments.
 
 E8192}         Potency and speciﬁcity of 1MN853wwas ed against FOLRE ~positive teii

lines with a wide range of FOUR} expression (the ABC values of the cell lines are provided

above) in addition FOL-R1negative ceiii lines Namaiwa and SWZ were included in the

experiments. IMGN853 was highly cytotoxic against cells with high FOLRl expression KB

(4,000,000i300,000 ABC), Igrov—l (400,000zt85,000 ABC) and Jeg—3 (150900171000

ABC), with the ICso values of 0.10i0.01  nM, 0.50i0.07 nM and  1.00i0.05 nM,

respectively.  The cell-killing activity against all three cell lines was FOLRl-dependent,

since an excess of unmodiﬁed 9 (M9346A) antibody (0.5 uM) ly decreased

potency of the conjugate to the typical non-speciﬁc levels (from 10 to 20~fold). 1MGN853

was only marginally active against the low FOLRl expressors Skov-3 and Ovcar-3 cells

(20,000::10,000 and 7,000i4,000 ABC, tively), and against FOLRl-negative cells

Namalwa and SW2, with the IC50 values greater than 2 nM. The cytotoxic activity of

IMGN853 against these cell lines was low and not FOLRl-dependent, as blocking with

huMovl9 (M9346A) did not affect it.  See Figures 19 and 20.
 
         FFPE samples prepared from mouse aft tumor models were evaluated for

FOLRl positivity using the zed and validated assay described above.  No staining

was seen in tumor cells of any xenograft samples stained with control article.  FFPE mouse

xenograft tissues derived from the ing cell lines showed the following staining

patterns: lgrov-l, KB, and 110 showed neous staining patterns with level 3

intensity;  Ishikawa and  Ovcar  3  showed heterogeneous  staining patterns  with  level  3

intensity; LXFA737 showed homogeneous staining patterns with level 2 ity; OV-90

showed  heterogenous  patterns  with  level  2  intensity;  and  SKOV3  was  negative.
 
 Representative photos of tumor xenografts are provided in Figures 21 and 22.

-60—

E\ParentalN   Disease‘ EFlnalbcore       "SEEMS;

Cell Line   E Indication      E                    Category

or Tumor  E

IGROV—I EOvarian cancerE I —3 homo       E 3 homo

E                     l-3homo        7

E                     E1-3 homo

Ishikawaum‘EndometnumE2-3hetero 7777777777   E3hetero

cancer           1 2‘hetero/3

focal

E                     E 2 hetero/3 focal

i                     E2 hetero/3 focal     , ,

“ “E‘éFVmical

E 3 homo        Ehomo

cancer         E 3WW

mm we  1'2 hdﬁiB'Ziiiiii........

2 homo

NCI—                     2—3 homo”      EE‘homo

H”Ovarian

OV-90           cancer  1-2 hetero       3:16:30

""""""WghetemE

OVCAR3 63mm cancer  1333%

hetero

“                                            E

Ovarian cancer Negatlve        Negat‘Eémi

Negatlve                    i

        A staining threshold (22 heterogeneous) requires both a minimal level of expression

(staining  ity)  and m  distribution  of staining  ntage  of tumor  cells

expressing . Pre-clinical data es justiﬁcation for this threshold in ovarian

carcinoma. Mouse xenograft tumor samples with IHC scores of 2 2 heterogeneous exhibit

sensitivity to IMGN 853 in vivo. FFPE samples prepared from mouse xenograft ovarian

tumor models were evaluated for FOLRl positivity using the optimized and validated assay

described above. Two n carcinoma xenograft models OVCAR-3, and IGROV— I

showed a heterogeneous or homogeneous staining pattern with level 3 ity. The

xenograft model derived from OV-9O ovarian carcinoma cells showed a heterogeneous

ng pattern with level 2 intensity; the Skov-3 ovarian carcinoma model was FOLRI-

negative.  IMGN853 was highly active in the two ovarian models with level 3 FOLRI

intensity and active in the OV—9O model with level 2 FOLRI intensity. No activity was

observed in the SKOV-3 model.  Xenograft models were also evaluated for other diseseas

~61—

indications including lung, endometrium, and cervical tumors and, although correlations

were ed between activity and FOLRl ng scores, additional samples must be

tested.

{@195}        The sensitivity of ovarian tumor aft models to IMGN853 versus the Eevei of

FOLRI expression

Xenograft    In vivo activity (5 mg/kg of  Intensity score, distribution

IMGN853, single dose)                                  w,

Mew...“         ,,

OVCAR3   Highly active                              E

- 3 heterogeneous               E

“mmmm...            ,,      u...mummw{momenmtme

E    IGROV-l       Highly active                    E 3 homogeneous

OV-90     Active                  2 heterogeneous

E     SKOV-3      s Inactive                            Negative

E                     =                                     :

The sensitivity of other tumor xenograft models to IMGN853 versus the level of FOLRl expression

In vivo activity (5 Eng/kg 0f           Intensity score,        E

IMGN853, single dose)              distribution           E

Highly active                          3 homogeneous

lshikawa   Eindometrium  Inactive                             2 homogeneous        E

E:                  ooooo WWW

KB     Eilervical     Highly active                3 homogeneous     E

:“WWMMMWWHW

        All  publications,  patents,  patent  applications,  intemet  sites,  and  accession

numbers/database sequences (including both polynucleotide and polypeptide ces)

cited herein are hereby orated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the

same extent as if each individual publication, patent, patent application, et site, or

accession number/database sequence were speciﬁcally and individually indicated to be so

incorporated by reference.
 
 -

SEQEENCES

SEQ ID NQt’i — huxtnan foiate mr 1

MAQRLMTI‘QLLLLLV“WAX/WGEESAQTR{AWAR'I‘ELLNVCMNAKBHKEKPGPEZEQKLHEQCR

PWRKNACCS’ENTSQBAHKD‘VSYLYRFNWNHCGEMAPACKRHFIQDTCLYECSPNE...GE’Wiﬁ

QQVDQSWRKERVLNVPLCKEEIXIEQWWEDCRTSYTCKSNWHKGWNW/"1‘86ENKCAVGA

ACQPFHFY}???PTVLC’NEIWTHSYKVSNYSR‘Ci‘SG-KCEQMWFDRKQGNPNEEVAKE1‘Yl’fL/XAl‘s/i

SGAGPWAA‘WPF1,,I,,S’3L,.AE.,MILLWLLS

SEQ ID N02 ~ human ﬁ‘ﬁate receptor 1 nudeic acid Sequsnce

atggctcagcggatgacaacacagc;tgGigdeem:tagtgigggtggctgtagtaggggaggctcagacaaggattgcatgggccaggact

gagcttcicaaigtctgcatgaacgccaagcaccacaaggaaaageGag,gccccgaggacaagttgcatgagcagtgEcgamctggagga

agaatgectge‘igttctavmaaaaccagecaggaagcccataaggatgtttﬁct3cata‘iatagaﬁcaactggaaccactgtggagagatggca.

cctgcctgcaaacggcamcatcc21ggacacctgcctctacgagtgctcccacaacﬁggggccctggatccagcaggtggatcagagctgg

cgcaaagagcgggtactgaacgtgcccctgigcaaagaggactgtgagcaatggtgggaagaﬁgtatgcacc‘tcctacacctgcaagagcaa

ctggcacaagggctggaactggacttcagggtttaacaagtgcgcagigggagctgcctgccaacctﬁccatﬁctacﬁccccacacccactg

caatgaaatctggactcacit.etacaaggtcagcaactacagccgagg{Iagtggccgctgcatccagatgtggﬁcgacccagccca

gggcaacaccaatgaggaggtggcgaggm:iatgctgcagccatgagtggggctgggccctgggcagcctggcc{itcctgcttagcctgg

ccciaatgctgctgtggctgctcagc

SEQ 11} N03 — huMOViQ VHC

QVQLVQSGAE‘VVKPGASVKESCKASGYTFTGYFMNWVKQSPGQSLEWIGRIHPYDGDTFY

NQKFQGKA‘E‘LTVDKSSNTAHMELLSLXIT‘SEDEAVYYCTRYDGSKAMDYWC:QG'I‘TVTVSS

SEQ 113N024 ~ huMevw VLCV} .00

DEVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQFAHSCKASQSVSPA Ts’l‘S LMH'WYHQKPGQQPRLLIYRASNLEA(3V

PDRFSGSGSKTDETLN 3 SP VELA'EEEILFAxtXT‘x’YCQQSREYPYTFGGGI‘KJLLEEIKR

SEQ ID NOIS ~ huMQv19 O

DI V1.30:8 3?1.;S’LAVSLGQPAHSCKASQSVSFAG’E‘SLMHWYHQKPGQQPRIZJiEJYKASNLEAGV

PDRFSGSGSK3715)FTLHSPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREY}?YI'FGGGTKLEEKR

A global biosciencc nonproﬁt

organization dedicated to biological

standards and biodiversity

IP, Licensingiand-Serviccs

10801 University Boulevard

-2209 USA

Mammals, ngim'azo 1

Telephone: (800) 638—6597

facsimile: (703)334—2932

Internet: hrrpzjlwwwmtoaorg

min-Wm“

mwwmmawW'tmmw

gs»sexesemsamxwwwwswsiswiuessua-memmmsmmwm:_';‘m\wtt\3\v;§s;\§saatmmemwmOF DEPOSIT

BUDAPEST RESTRICTED CERTIFICATEINTERNATIONALRECOGNITION OF

BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE                OF PATENT URE

FOR THEPURPOSES

THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMSINTERNATIONAL FORM

TO. RULE 7.3

‘            DEPOSIT ISSUED PURSUANT

RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL                        10.2

ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE

AND lTY STATEMENT

in connection

received your deposit of seeds/Strain(s)lstrain'(s)

Coilection (ATCC®) has

The American Type Culture                                   is provided to fulﬁll Patent Ofﬁcerequirements.
 
 The foiloWing infonnation

with the ﬁling of an application for .
 
 Ms. Olga Ab

lmmunoGen. inc.

830 Winter Street

Waltharn, MA 02451—1477

Gen, inc.
 
 Deposited on Behalf of:

by theATCC®2     April 07, 2010

Date of Receipt of seeds/strain(s)

.lQLQEéﬁﬂspeifiwﬂQﬁiﬂﬂéSIRE};          Quantity Received:

identiﬁcation Reference byDegositor‘.                                              ‘25 vials

PTA-10772

vials

recombinant plasmid DNA, phMov19H6v1.QCTK    PTA-10773

recombinant plasmid DNA, phMov‘i-QLCV‘LO

that:

The ATCC® understands                                                                 to infringe-the

either express or implied.

does not grant ATCC® a license,                     either express or

1.      The deposit of these seeds/strain(s)             to others does not grant them a license,

of these seeds/straws)

, and our release

implied. to infringethe patent.

it shall- be your  sibility

term of the ,

die-or be destroyed during the-effective                            for distribution for

2.      if the t should:                                     to supply a sufficient quantity

it is also your sibility                                      most

to replace it with viable material.

or 5 years following-the

the material for 30 years

will distribute; and in                              c‘ountriesrare signatory

the deposit'ter-m. ATCC®                           United'States and many other

whichever'is longer. The

recent request for the t,

to the Budapest Treaty.                                                                       not to

e-time service ,

of a U.S. Patent, the ATC

instructed by the

Prior to the ce                                   thereto or to their deposit except as             and-

seeds/straini‘s) or any information relating                     to release the seeds/strain(s)

distribute these                                     issues we are responsible                         for the

ofﬁce. After relevant patent                     We will inform you of requests

depositor or relevant patent                         without any restrictions.

for distribution to the public

they will be made available          of deposit.

strain(s) for 30 yearsfrom date

-—    WWmvcgom~MV¢§£§\9¢.§§\_)\-§\VK€A\\§§h\%§$§r§x§wﬁ§§y§i§i¢

WQﬁskwx‘WWWWW—W       Doc-1D: 20127

Revision: 2

Effective Data? 10/13/2909



A global bioscience nonprofit

.'\' f: . E                                           organization dedicated to gical

“                                               stnndards and biodiversity

IP, Licensing and'Services

10301 University Boulevard

Mamassu. Virginia 20'] 10—2209

Telephone: (800) 638-6597

Facsimile: (703) 334-2937.
 
 Internet: htth/wwwmccnrg

§§§gﬁcg§$§qmﬁmwxwg§§z§m9mwwﬁgpwwwcgjwmmmmymw,xwgwwmxgwﬁwéggédﬁiawmwww

seeds/strain(‘s)lwere viable

2010 and on that date, the

The deposit was tested Agril 201                                          Manassas, VA, USA

American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®),

international Depository Authority:

ity to represent ATCCG).
 
 Signature of person having

i' mgiunyngmd hymn.

o-ATC‘.

mm=lallhl Flam-klhhlun,

LntF-d mam/innit ,  0W5“WW,“

'rﬁv‘i‘i‘il‘u'lnmzwuhmnoalcmg. o-US

manual]: 155in men-                                   Agrii 23: 2010

,~»_»w .V. ....
 
 Date

ATCC® Patent Depository

cc: Eric Steffe

2921 .0020000;

Ref; Docket or Case. No;

Wmm-va-WMAWWWW“\M\WMWW“\V°~VKW‘° ,_

Doc D: 20127

Revision: 2

a Date: 10/13/2099



A global ence nonproﬁt

organization dedicated to biological

standards andrbiodiverslty

lP, Licensing and‘Services

10801 University Boulevard.
 
 Manassas,.Virginia.201‘l0—2209 USA

Telephone: (800) 638-6597

Facsimile: (703) 334-2932

lnte'rnet: http:JIwww.atcc;org

1:«coax{Q‘SSKMQ53‘§3§f§t§m.<,«vgossxﬂex:§\ww§<wiﬁﬁ§§xt§s&&$§a-WK§§'<§~W‘S\W\MW(&.\Yﬁ\$tv§m¢zg§wx\m\§3s;: §sxs§§xw§m~gvz§otwWpﬁsmmwwsPamemesmmweﬁ

BUDAPEST RESTRICTED CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT

BUDAPEST TREATY E INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION

PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE

THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR'THE

INTERNATIONAL FORM

ISSUED NT TO RULE 7.3

RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF'AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT

PURSUANT TO RU LE 10.2

AND VIABILITY STATEMENT ISSUED

received your deposit of seeds/strain(s)/strain(s) in connection

The American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®) has  information is provided to fulﬁll Patent Ofﬁce requirements.
 
 With the ﬁling of an application for patent The following

Ms. Olga Ab

Gen. Inc.

830 Winter Street

Waltham, MA 02451—1477

Deposited on Behalf of:        immunoGenl inc.
 
 Date of Receipt of seeds/strain(s) by the ATCC®:     April 07: 2010

ty ed:

Lgenﬁcatiolﬁefergme..b'y Dggtgsitor:   ATCC ®Patent Deg}sit Designation;

PTA-10774                       25 vials

Recombinant plasmid DNA, phMov19LCv‘l.6'

PTA-10775                       2'5 vials

Recombinant d DNA, p'hF_R1-21HC

PTA-10776                       2‘5 vials

Recombinant d DNA, phFRT] -21 LC

The ATCC® understands that:

to ge the

rant ATCC® a license, either express or implied,

i.      The deposit of these seeds/strain(s9 does not Q

s) to others does not grant them a license, either express or                                                                                                 patent, and our release of these seeds/strain(

implied, to infringe the patent.

be your

the effectiveterm of the patent, it-shall         responsibility

2.      If the deposit should die or be destroyed during                        sufﬁcientquantity for distribution for

to replace it‘ with viable material;  it is also your responsibility to supply a

years following the most

and maintain the material for 30 years or

the deposit term. ATCC® will distribute                                     other countries are signatory

is longer. The United States and many

resent reqUest for the deposit, whichever

to the Budapest Treaty.

not to

the ATCC® agrees in consideration for a one-time service charge,

Prior to the issuance of a US. Patent,                                                     instructed by the

distribute these strain(s) or any information relating thereto or to their deposit except as

to release the seeds/strain(s) and

depositor or relevant patent ofﬁce. After relevant patent issues we are responsible

will inform you of ts for the

the public without any restrictions. We

they will be made ble for distribution to

seeds/strain(s) for 30 years from date of t.

youri‘m‘ivzswsﬁivixﬁvg.

ammwmnmmuwwmw.Wowns-MWmessikxwmx’s:eawm<«W~‘-®¥ewmﬁ“ﬁDoc ID: 20127

Revision:.-2

Effective Date; 101132009



A global ence nonproﬁt

organization dedicated to biological

standards and biodiversity

iP. Licensing and es

10801 University Boulevard

Manassas, Virginia 20110-2299 USA

Telephone: (800) 638-6597

Facsimile: (703) 334-2932

Internet: [iwww.aicc.org

mm-szxwmmmmuumwmwmmvmmwmmmwwﬁtxmwKwiﬂwqhﬁWmawﬁummmmmmmwmmwm

The deposit‘was tested Agril 23, 2010 and on thatdate, the seeds/strain(,s) were viable

international Depository Authority: American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®), Manessas. VA, USA

Signature of person having authority to represent ATCC®:

Digiuliy sign-d by Latin

t" Ramakrkhnan

"  arugula Ronniqishmmva‘m:

110445 ‘ilci m6~04w

._e,                                     Agﬁi26,2010

ATCC® Patent Depository                                        Date

cc: Eric Steffe

Ref: Docket or Case No: 29210020000;

.wtwmmmwm-”mumummxw.“Wnaw‘me-muwurWuano.w+—emw~gmmgsywmﬁdemossmmxxg‘x'ﬁgiwg‘gx‘ m’j'gv' g‘mwm'a

Due in: 20127

-                 Envision: 2

Effective Date: 10/13/2003

—67- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
