
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   用於製造乳酸之微生物及使用該微生物製造乳酸的方法
 Microorganism for producing lactic acid and method for producing lactic acid using the same
 
 
 
 
   本申請係關於一種製造乳酸之酵母菌屬的微生物以及使用該微生物製造乳酸之方法。
 The present application relates to a microorganism for producing a lactic acid bacterium and a method for producing lactic acid using the same.
 
 
 
 
 
   乳酸有廣範圍應用於工業，包括食品、醫藥、化妝品等等。最近，由於乳酸作為聚乳酸的單體的用途，需求已顯著地增加。製備乳酸的方法包含傳統化學合成方法以及生物醱酵方法，該生物醱酵方法係有碳水化合物作為受質，且近期後者較受喜愛。
 Lactic acid is widely used in industry, including food, medicine, cosmetics, and the like. Recently, demand for lactic acid has been significantly increased due to the use of lactic acid as a monomer for polylactic acid. The method for preparing lactic acid includes a conventional chemical synthesis method and a biological fermentation method, which is a carbohydrate as a substrate, and the latter is favored in the near future.
 
 
 
   一般而言，以酵母菌為基礎的乳酸製造的微生物中，乳酸脫氫酶(LDH)及丙酮酸脫羧酶(PDC)競爭以利用丙酮酸作為受質。就這點而言，有必要最小化PDC功能，以藉由LDH提高乳酸製造，用以最大化丙酮酸製造產率。釀酒酵母菌 Saccharomyces cerevisiae 中，PDC存在有三種不同形式的同功異構酶，即，PDC1、PDC5及PDC6。因此，為了最大化乳酸製造，可使用製備同時將三個
PDC1、PDC5及PDC6基因刪除的菌株之方法。然而，雖然去活化PDC活性可能增加乳酸的產量，但也有其降低製造性且該菌株並無法穩定生長的缺點(歐洲專利第EP2041264號)，因此造成其難以製造所欲量的乳酸。此外，酵母菌，諸如酵母菌( Saccharomyces )屬，不類似於如細菌之原核生物，並無法藉由各種的細胞胞器以及各種的器官系統之簡單基因操作而確切地預測是否可製造所欲量的乳酸。
 In general, among microorganisms produced by yeast-based lactic acid, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) compete to utilize pyruvic acid as a substrate. In this regard, it is necessary to minimize the PDC function to increase lactic acid production by LDH to maximize pyruvate production yield. In  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  , there are three different forms of isomeric isomerase in PDC, namely, PDC1, PDC5 and PDC6. Therefore, in order to maximize lactic acid production, a method of preparing a strain in which three PDC1, PDC5, and PDC6 genes are simultaneously deleted can be used. However, although deactivation of PDC activity may increase the yield of lactic acid, there is also a disadvantage that it reduces manufacturability and the strain does not grow stably (European Patent No. EP2041264), thus causing it to be difficult to produce a desired amount of lactic acid. In addition, yeasts, such as the genus  Saccharomyces  , are not similar to prokaryotes such as bacteria, and cannot accurately predict whether a desired amount can be produced by simple cellular manipulation of various cell organelles and various organ systems. Lactic acid. 
 
 
   本申請的發明人努力發展一種當維持乳酸製造微生物的穩定生長，同時增加乳酸的製造產率及製造量之方法，且結果證實增強乙醯輔酶A之供給途徑以及自草醯乙酸(OAA)成為丙酮酸之供給途徑改善了乳酸製造的量，從而完成本申請。
 The inventors of the present application have endeavored to develop a method for maintaining stable growth of lactic acid-producing microorganisms while increasing the production yield and amount of lactic acid, and as a result, it was confirmed that the supply route of acetaminophen coenzyme A and the conversion of oxalic acid (OAA) were confirmed. The supply route of pyruvic acid improves the amount of lactic acid production, thereby completing the present application.
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   本申請之目的係在於提供製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces 屬的微生物。
 The purpose of the present application is to provide a microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  which produces lactic acid. 
 
 
   本申請之另一個目的係使用該微生物製造乳酸之方法。
 Another object of the present application is a method of producing lactic acid using the microorganism.
 
 
 
 
 
   本申請之經修飾的乳酸製造菌株，其中PDC活性經去活化，外來ACL活性經引入以及丙酮酸之生合成途徑經增強，藉由最小化製造醇的醱酵與乳酸降解途徑的阻斷，相較於傳統的菌株，其具有優異的乳酸醱酵產率以及生產率。因此，該乳酸製造菌株的生長經增加，且本申
請之經修飾的乳酸製造菌株可被廣泛地用於改善使用乳酸作為原料所製備的各種產品之生產率。由此製造的乳酸可作為各種類之產品的原料。
 The modified lactic acid producing strain of the present application, wherein the PDC activity is deactivated, the foreign ACL activity is introduced, and the pyruvate biosynthesis pathway is enhanced, by minimizing the alcoholic fermentation and the lactic acid degradation pathway. It has excellent lactate fermentation yield and productivity compared to conventional strains. Therefore, the growth of the lactic acid producing strain is increased, and the present application
The modified lactic acid producing strain can be widely used to improve the productivity of various products prepared using lactic acid as a raw material. The lactic acid thus produced can be used as a raw material for various types of products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
   第1圖為用於經由存在於酵母菌微生物中之PEP羧化激酶(PCK 1,EC 4.1.1.49)及丙酮酸激酶(PYK 2,EC 2.7.1.40)的過度表現以增強丙酮酸的生合成的途徑圖，且顯示圖解方式說明藉由引入外來ACL以及增強本發明之PCK及PYK途徑以改善乳酸生產率。
 Figure 1 is a graph showing the enhanced synthesis of pyruvate via overexpression of PEP carboxylated kinase (PCK 1, EC 4.1.149) and pyruvate kinase (PYK 2, EC 2.7.1.40) present in yeast microorganisms. A pathway map, and shows a graphical representation to improve lactic acid productivity by introducing foreign ACLs and enhancing the PCK and PYK pathways of the present invention.
 
 
 
   第2圖為用於經由存在於酵母菌微生物中之蘋果酸脫氫酶(MDH2,EC 1.1.1.37)及細胞溶質蘋果酸酵素1(MAE1,EC 1.1.1.38)的過度表現以增強丙酮酸的生合成的途徑圖，且顯示圖解方式說明藉由引入外來ACL以及經由本發明之MDH及細胞溶質MAE途徑以改善乳酸生產率。
 Figure 2 is a graph showing the enhancement of pyruvate by overexpression of malate dehydrogenase (MDH2, EC 1.1.1.37) and cytosolic malic enzyme 1 (MAE1, EC 1.1.1.38) present in yeast microorganisms. Biosynthetic pathway maps are shown and graphically illustrated to improve lactic acid productivity by introducing foreign ACLs and via the MDH and cytosolic MAE pathways of the invention.
 
 
 
 
 
   為達到上述之目的，在一態樣中，本申請提供一種製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces 屬的微生物，其中該微生物係經修飾為去活化相較於其內生性活性之丙酮酸脫羧酶(PDC)之活性、為引入ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶(ACL)之活性以及增強相較於其內生性生合成途徑之丙酮酸生合成途徑。
 In order to achieve the above object, in one aspect, the present application provides a microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  producing lactic acid, wherein the microorganism is modified to deactivate the activity of pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) compared to its endogenous activity. In order to introduce the activity of ATP-citrate lyase (ACL) and enhance the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway compared to its endogenous biosynthetic pathway. 
 
 
   製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces 屬的微生物可為微生物，其中相較於未經修飾的菌株(其中未引入ACL活性及/或未增強相對於內生性生合成途徑之丙酮酸生合成途徑)，乳酸醱酵產率係增加的及/或 Saccharomyces 屬之微
生物菌體的生長係增加的(具有生產率的微生物的生長增加)及/或乳酸的生產率係增加的。
 The microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  producing lactic acid may be a microorganism, wherein the lactic acid is produced in comparison to an unmodified strain in which ACL activity is not introduced and/or the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway relative to the endogenous biosynthetic pathway is not enhanced. The rate of increase and/or the growth of the microbial cells of the genus  Saccharomyces  is increased (increased growth of microorganisms having productivity) and/or the productivity of lactic acid is increased. 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「乳酸」(LA)意謂由C 2 H 4 OHCOOH所表示的有機酸。當該乳酸係經由化學合成製造時，乳酸係以外消旋混合物的形式製造，其中 D -型乳酸及 L -型乳酸以50/50比例混合，且不可能調控該組合比例。因此，當製備聚乳酸時，乳酸成為具有低熔點的非晶型聚合物，也因此其在發展使用方面有許多限制。相反地，當乳酸係藉由使用微生物的生物醱酵方法製造時，可依據所使用的菌株或將被引入至該菌株內的乳酸脫氫酶(LDH)而可選擇性地製造 D -型乳酸及L-型乳酸。
 As used herein, the term "lactic acid" (LA) means an organic acid represented by C  2  H  4  OHCOOH. When the lactic acid is produced by chemical synthesis, lactic acid is produced in the form of a racemic mixture in which  D  -type lactic acid and  L  -type lactic acid are mixed in a ratio of 50/50, and it is impossible to adjust the combination ratio. Therefore, when polylactic acid is prepared, lactic acid becomes an amorphous polymer having a low melting point, and thus it has many limitations in terms of development and use. Conversely, when lactic acid is produced by a biofermentation method using a microorganism,  D  -type lactic acid can be selectively produced depending on the strain to be used or lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) to be introduced into the strain. And L-type lactic acid. 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，本申請中術語「製造乳酸之微生物」意謂製造乳酸生產率之微生物菌株，其可將糖轉換成乳酸，以及例如可包含任何酵母菌微生物而無任何限制，只要其包含本申請的乳酸合成途徑以及乙醯輔酶A合成途徑。
 As used herein, the term "microorganism for producing lactic acid" as used herein means a microorganism strain for producing lactic acid productivity, which can convert sugar into lactic acid, and can include, for example, any yeast microorganism without any limitation as long as it contains The applied lactic acid synthesis pathway and the acetyl-CoA synthesis pathway.
 
 
 
   依據它們的型態，酵母菌微生物可分類為 Saccharomyces 屬、 Pichia 屬、 Candida 屬，以及 Saccharomycopsis 屬，且具體地，包含各種的 Saccharomyces 屬的微生物，只要該各品種的微生物能夠生產乳酸，皆可為本申請所使用。具體地， Saccharomyces  sp.微生物可選自由貝納酵母( Saccharomyces bayanus )、布拉迪酵母( Saccharomyces boulardii )、博伊丁酵母( Saccharomyces bulderi )、卡里歐卡納酵母( Saccharomyces cariocanus )、卡里
歐卡酵母( Saccharomyces cariocus )、釀酒酵母( Saccharomyces cerevisiae )、薛瓦酵母( Saccharomyces chevalieri )、達連酵母( Saccharomyces dairenensis )、葡萄酒酵母( Saccharomyces ellipsoideus )、尤貝納酵母( Saccharomyces eubayanus )、少孢酵母( Saccharomyces exiguus )、弗羅凌酵母( Saccharomyces florentinus )、克魯弗酵母( Saccharomyces kluyveri )、瑪丁尼酵母( Saccharomyces martiniae )、摩納酵母( Saccharomyces monacensis )、 Saccharomyces norbensis 、奇異酵母( Saccharomyces paradoxus )、巴斯德酵母( Saccharomyces pastorianus )、斯班斯羅姆酵母( Saccharomyces spencerorum )、圖列茲酵母( Saccharomyces turicensis )、單孢酵母( Saccharomyces unisporus )、葡萄汁酵母( Saccharomyces uvarum) 以及容納圖酵母( Saccharomyces zonatus )所組成之群組，且更具體地， Saccharomyces  sp.微生物可選自釀酒酵母( Saccharomyces cerevisiae )。
 According to their form, the yeast microorganism can be classified into the genus  Saccharomyces, the  genus  Pichia, the  genus  Candida  , and the genus  Saccharomycopsis  , and specifically, various microorganisms belonging to the genus  Saccharomyces  , as long as the microorganisms of the various species can produce lactic acid, Used in this application. Specifically, the  Saccharomyces  sp. microorganism may be selected from the group consisting of  Saccharomyces bayanus  ,  Saccharomyces boulardii  ,  Saccharomyces bulderi  ,  Saccharomyces cariocanus  , Cario.  Saccharomyces cariocus  ,  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  ,  Saccharomyces chevalieri  ,  Saccharomyces dairenensis  ,  Saccharomyces ellipsoideus  ,  Saccharomyces eubayanus  , Less  sclerotium  (  Saccharomyces exiguus  ),  Saccharomyces florentinus  ,  Saccharomyces kluyveri  ,  Saccharomyces martiniae  ,  Saccharomyces monacensis  ,  Saccharomyces norbensis  ,  Saccharomyces paradoxus  , Ba de yeast  (Saccharomyces pastorianus),  Brisbane Si Luomu yeast  (Saccharomyces  spencerorum), Figure Lezgin yeast  (Saccharomyces  turicensis), single spore yeast  (Saccharomyces  unisporus), grape juice yeast  (Sacch Aromyces uvarum)  and a group consisting of  Saccharomyces zonatus  , and more specifically, the  Saccharomyces  sp. microorganism may be selected from  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  . 
 
 
   本申請之製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces 屬的微生物可為微生物，其中該微生物係經修飾以去活化相較於其內生性活性之丙酮酸脫羧酶(PDC)之活性、引入ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶之活性以及增強相較於其內生性生合成途徑之丙酮酸生合成途徑。
 The microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  producing lactic acid of the present application may be a microorganism, wherein the microorganism is modified to deactivate the activity of pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) compared to its endogenous activity, and the activity of introducing ATP-citrate lyase And enhancing the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway compared to its endogenous biosynthetic pathway. 
 
 
   具體地，製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces  sp.微生物可為微生物，其中該微生物係經以下方式修飾(i)去活化相較於其內生性活性之丙酮酸脫羧酶(PDC)之活性，(ii)引
入ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶之活性，以及(iii)增強相較於其內生性生合成途徑之丙酮酸生合成途徑，且可進一步經由以下方式修飾(iv)引入乳酸脫氫酶(LDH)之活性，(v)減弱或去活化相較於其內生性活性之乙醇脫氫酶1之活性，(vi)減弱或去活化相較於其內生性活性之丙酮酸脫羧酶1之活性，及/或(vii)減弱或去活化其內生性活性之D-乳酸脫氫酶1之活性。
 Specifically, the microorganism producing  Saccharomyces  sp. lactic acid may be a microorganism, wherein the microorganism is modified (i) to deactivate the activity of pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) compared to its endogenous activity, and (ii) to introduce ATP. - the activity of citrate lyase, and (iii) enhancing the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway compared to its endogenous biosynthetic pathway, and may further modify (iv) the activity of introducing lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), (v) attenuating or deactivating the activity of alcohol dehydrogenase 1 compared to its endogenous activity, (vi) attenuating or deactivating the activity of pyruvate decarboxylase 1 compared to its endogenous activity, and/or ( Vii) attenuates or deactivates the activity of its endogenous D-lactate dehydrogenase 1. 
 
 
   此外，本申請之微生物可進一步經以下方式修飾(i)去活化相較於其內生性活性之乙醇脫氫酶1(ADH1)之活性；(ii)相較於其內生性活性之丙酮酸脫羧酶1(PDC1)之活性；以及(iii)去活化相較於其內生性活性之D-乳酸脫氫酶1(DLD1)之活性。
 Further, the microorganism of the present application may be further modified (i) to deactivate the activity of the alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (ADH1) compared to its endogenous activity; (ii) pyruvate decarboxylation compared to its endogenous activity The activity of enzyme 1 (PDC1); and (iii) the activity of deactivated D-lactate dehydrogenase 1 (DLD1) compared to its endogenous activity.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「丙酮酸脫羧酶(PDC)」，其與催化丙酮酸之脫羧反應的酵素可互換使用，意謂將丙酮酸轉換成乙醛以及二氧化碳(CO 2 )之酵素。丙酮酸脫羧酶係在厭氧條件下發生於酵母菌之參與醱酵作用之酵素，尤其在 Saccharomyces  sp.，且其為經由醱酵作用製造酒精的酵素。一般而言，在 Saccharomyces  sp.的PDC存在有三種不同形式的同功異構酶，即，PDC1、PDC5及PDC6。PDC的蛋白質及基因序列可從已知的資料庫諸如但不限於NCBI的GenBank取得。具體地，就酵素而言，PDC1可為由SEQ ID NO：39之胺基酸序列所表示之蛋白質、PDC5可為由SEQ ID NO：41之胺基酸序列所表示之蛋白質，以及PDC6可為由SEQ ID NO：43之胺基酸序列所表示之蛋
白質，但是可無受限制地包含具有PDC活性之任何胺基酸序列。此外，編碼PDC1、PDC5及PDC6之基因可具體地分別由諸如SEQ ID NO：40、42及44之核苷酸序列所表示，但是可無受限制地包含可編碼該酵素之任何核苷酸序列。
 As used herein, the term "pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC)", which is used interchangeably with the catalytic enzyme pyruvate decarboxylation reaction, means to convert pyruvate into acetaldehyde and carbon dioxide (CO  2)  of the enzyme. Pyruvate decarboxylase is an enzyme that participates in the fermentation of yeast in anaerobic conditions, especially in  Saccharomyces  sp., and is an enzyme that produces alcohol via fermentation. In general, there are three different forms of isomeric isomerases in PDC of  Saccharomyces  sp., namely, PDC1, PDC5, and PDC6. The protein and gene sequences of PDC can be obtained from a known database such as, but not limited to, NCBI's GenBank. Specifically, in the case of an enzyme, PDC1 may be a protein represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 39, PDC5 may be a protein represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 41, and PDC6 may be A protein represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 43, but may include, without limitation, any amino acid sequence having PDC activity. Furthermore, the genes encoding PDC1, PDC5 and PDC6 may specifically be represented by nucleotide sequences such as SEQ ID NOS: 40, 42 and 44, respectively, but may include, without limitation, any nucleotide sequence encoding the enzyme. . 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶(ACL,EC 2.3.3.8)」意謂將檸檬酸轉換成草醯乙酸(oxaloacetate,OAA)以及乙醯輔酶A之酵素，且已知其存在於高等生物體以及一些酵母菌(ATP-citrate lyase：A mini-review, Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications ,422,(2012),1-2)。
 As used herein, the term "ATP-citrate lyase (ACL, EC 2.3.3.8)" means an enzyme that converts citric acid to oxaloacetate (OAA) and acetoin coenzyme A, and is known Present in higher organisms as well as some yeasts (ATP-citrate lyase: A mini-review,  Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications  , 422, (2012), 1-2). 
 
 
   反應式如下所示：檸檬酸+ATP+輔酶A+H 2 O→草醯乙酸+乙醯輔酶A+A+Pi
 The reaction formula is as follows: citric acid + ATP + coenzyme A + H  2  O → oxaloacetate + acetoin coenzyme A + A + Pi 
 
 
   乙醯輔酶A對於微生物生長係必要的酵素，且其重要性最近已被不同的參考文獻強調。作為代表性實例，有報導為研究在真核生物體內可經由非自然途徑來提供細胞溶質乙醯輔酶A而藉以製造1,3丁二醇(1,3-BOD)而改善生產率(國際專利公開案WO 2013/036764)。
 Acetyl-CoA is an essential enzyme for microbial growth, and its importance has recently been highlighted by different references. As a representative example, it has been reported to improve productivity by providing cytosolic acetaminophen coenzyme A in an eukaryotic organism to produce 1,3 butanediol (1,3-BOD) by international means (International Patent Publication) Case WO 2013/036764).
 
 
 
   就這點而言，可藉由引入外來的ACL以提供其中PDC活性經減弱或移除的菌株生長所必需的乙醯輔酶A，從而可使微生物以非依賴於PDC活性的方式生長。蛋白質序列及基因序列可從已知的資料庫諸如但不限於NCBI的GenBank取得。具體地，ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶可具有SEQ ID NO：29之胺基酸序列，但是可無受限制地包含具有該酵素活性之任何胺基酸序列。此外，編碼ACL之基
因可具體地由SEQ ID NO：30之核苷酸序列所表示，但是可無受限制地包含編碼該酵素之任何序列。
 In this regard, the microorganism can be grown in a manner independent of PDC activity by introducing a foreign ACL to provide the acetamyl coenzyme A necessary for the growth of the strain in which the PDC activity is weakened or removed. Protein sequences and gene sequences can be obtained from known databases such as, but not limited to, NCBI's GenBank. Specifically, the ATP-citrate lyase may have the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 29, but may include, without limitation, any amino acid sequence having the activity of the enzyme. In addition, the base of the encoding ACL
Specifically, it can be represented by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 30, but any sequence encoding the enzyme can be included without limitation.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「丙酮酸生合成途徑」，其意謂在 Saccharomyces 屬之微生物可提供丙酮酸之生合成途徑，可為從OAA到丙酮酸之供應途徑。具體的實例顯示於第1圖及第2圖。
 As used herein, the term "pyruvate biosynthetic pathway" means that the microorganisms of the genus  Saccharomyces  provide a synthetic pathway for pyruvate, which may be a route of supply from OAA to pyruvate. Specific examples are shown in Figures 1 and 2. 
 
 
   在例示性實施例中，丙酮酸生合成途徑可藉由修飾磷酸烯醇丙酮酸羧化激酶1(PCK1)或丙酮酸激酶2(PYK2)或兩者酵素之活性而實施，以增強相較於其等之內生性活性之其等之活性。
 In an exemplary embodiment, the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway can be practiced by modifying the activity of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase 1 (PCK1) or pyruvate kinase 2 (PYK2) or both enzymes to enhance Its activity such as endogenous activity.
 
 
 
   或者，丙酮酸生合成途徑可藉由修飾蘋果酸脫氫酶2(MDH2)或細胞溶質的蘋果酸酶1(cytosolic MAE1)或兩者酵素之活性而實施，以增強相較於其等之內生性活性之其等之活性。
 Alternatively, the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway can be carried out by modifying the activity of malate dehydrogenase 2 (MDH2) or cytosolic mastolic 1 (cytosolic MAE1) or both enzymes to enhance the ratio compared to The activity of the active activity.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「磷酸烯醇丙酮酸羧化激酶1(PCK1)」意謂催化OAA轉換成磷酸烯醇丙酮酸(PEP)之酵素。在酵母菌微生物內，PCK1為酵母菌微生物中葡萄糖生成作用將OAA轉換成PEP之所需酵素，且已知在葡萄糖存在下，其表現受到抑制(Differential post-transcriptional regulation of yeast mRNAs in response to high and low glucose concentratons. Mol Microbiol  35(3)：553-65(2000))。
 As used herein, the term "phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase 1 (PCK1)" means an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of OAA to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP). In yeast microorganisms, PCK1 is a required enzyme for the conversion of OAA into PEP by glucose production in yeast microorganisms, and it is known that in the presence of glucose, its performance is inhibited (Differential post-transcriptional regulation of yeast mRNAs in response to high) And low glucose concentratons.  Mol Microbiol  35(3): 553-65 (2000)). 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「丙酮酸激酶2(PYK2)」意謂藉由從PEP遞送磷酸根至ADP以催化丙酮酸
及ATP之製造的酵素。在酵母菌微生物內，PYK2係酵母菌微生物中糖解作用之最後一個步驟的酵素，且亦已知在葡萄糖存在下，其表現受到抑制(Characterization of a glucose-repressed pyruvate kinase(Pyk2p)in  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  that is catalytically insensitive to fructorse-1,6-bisphosphate, J Bacteriol. 1997 May；179(9)：2987-93)。
 As used herein, the term "pyruvate kinase 2 (PYK2)" means an enzyme that catalyzes the manufacture of pyruvic acid and ATP by delivering phosphate from APE to ADP. In yeast microorganisms, PYK2 is the enzyme of the last step of glycolytic action in yeast microorganisms, and is also known to be inhibited in the presence of glucose (Characterization of a glucose-repressed pyruvate kinase (Pyk2p) in  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  That is catalytically insensitive to fructorse-1,6-bisphosphate,  J Bacteriol.  1997 May;179(9):2987-93). 
 
 
   各蛋白質序列及基因序列可從已知的資料庫諸如但不限於NCBI的GenBank取得。PCK1可具有SEQ ID NO：31之胺基酸序列，但是可無受限制地包含具有該酵素活性之任何蛋白質序列。此外，編碼PCK1之基因可具體地由SEQ ID NO：32之核苷酸序列所表示，但是可無受限制地包含編碼該酵素之任何序列。PYK2可具有SEQ ID NO：33之胺基酸序列，但是可無受限制地包含具有該酵素活性之任何蛋白質序列。此外，作為具體的實例，編碼PYK2之基因可由SEQ ID NO：34之核苷酸序列所表示，但是可無受限制地包含編碼該酵素之任何序列。
 Each protein sequence and gene sequence can be obtained from a known database such as, but not limited to, NCBI's GenBank. PCK1 may have the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 31, but may include, without limitation, any protein sequence having the activity of the enzyme. Furthermore, the gene encoding PCK1 may specifically be represented by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 32, but may include any sequence encoding the enzyme without limitation. PYK2 may have the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 33, but may include, without limitation, any protein sequence having the activity of the enzyme. Furthermore, as a specific example, the gene encoding PYK2 can be represented by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 34, but any sequence encoding the enzyme can be included without limitation.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「蘋果酸脫氫酶2(MDH2)」意謂將OAA轉換成蘋果酸之可逆性的酵素。MDH2係原本位於細胞溶質之酵素。
 As used herein, the term "malate dehydrogenase 2 (MDH2)" means an enzyme that converts OAA to the reversibility of malic acid. MDH2 is an enzyme originally located in the cytosol.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「細胞溶質的蘋果酸酶1(MAE1)」意謂藉由將粒線體標的序列從可令丙酮酸取代蘋果酸之MAE1酵素移除之修飾而位於細胞溶質內之酵素。MAE1酵素為原本位於粒線體之蛋白質，且其在粒線
體中將三羧酸(TCA)循環的中間產物蘋果酸轉換成丙酮酸( Metabolic Engineering ,6(2004),352-363)。各蛋白質序列及基因序列可從已知的資料庫諸如但不限於NCBI的GenBank取得。MDH2可具有SEQ ID NO：35之胺基酸序列，但是可無受限制地包含具有該酵素活性之任何蛋白質序列。此外，作為具體實例，編碼MDH2之基因可由SEQ ID NO：36之核苷酸序列所表示，但是可無受限制地包含編碼該酵素之任何序列。MAE1可具有SEQ ID NO：37之胺基酸序列，但是可無受限制地包含具有該酵素活性之任何蛋白質序列。此外，對於存在於細胞溶質的MAE1，該MAE1可具有其中從起始點位置至位置30之胺基酸殘基經刪除之SEQ ID NO：37之胺基酸序列的序列(即，來自SEQ ID NO：51之胺基酸序列之序列(粒線體標的序列)係經刪除)，且該序列係由SEQ ID NO：52所表示。此外，在具體實例中，編碼MAE1之基因可由SEQ ID NO：38之核苷酸序列所表示，但是可無受限制地包含編碼該酵素之任何序列。
 As used herein, the term "cytosolic malic enzyme 1 (MAE1)" means located within the cytosol by modifying the sequence of the mitochondrial marker from the MAE1 enzyme which removes the pyruvate-substituted malic acid. Enzyme. The MAE1 enzyme is a protein originally located in the mitochondria, and it converts the intermediate product malic acid of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle into pyruvic acid in the mitochondria (  Metabolic Engineering  , 6 (2004), 352-363). Each protein sequence and gene sequence can be obtained from a known database such as, but not limited to, NCBI's GenBank. MDH2 may have the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 35, but may comprise, without limitation, any protein sequence having the activity of the enzyme. Furthermore, as a specific example, the gene encoding MDH2 can be represented by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 36, but can include any sequence encoding the enzyme without limitation. MAE1 may have the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 37, but may comprise, without limitation, any protein sequence having the activity of the enzyme. Furthermore, for MAE1 present in the cytosol, the MAE1 may have the sequence of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 37 in which the amino acid residue from the starting point position to position 30 is deleted (ie, from SEQ ID The sequence of the amino acid sequence of NO: 51 (the sequence labeled with the granule) is deleted, and the sequence is represented by SEQ ID NO:52. Furthermore, in a specific example, the gene encoding MAE1 can be represented by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 38, but any sequence encoding the enzyme can be included without limitation. 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「乳酸脫氫酶(LDH)」意謂可催化乳酸轉換成丙酮酸以及反向之酵素，且蛋白質序列及基因序列可從已知的資料庫諸如但不限於NCBI的GenBank取得。LDH可具有SEQ ID NO：49之胺基酸序列，但是可無受限制地包含具有該酵素活性之任何蛋白質序列。此外，編碼LDH之基因可由SEQ ID NO：50之核苷酸序列所表示，但是可無受限制地包含編碼該酵素之任何序列。
 As used herein, the term "lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)" means catalyzed conversion of lactic acid to pyruvate and reversed enzymes, and protein sequences and gene sequences can be obtained from known databases such as, but not limited to, NCBI. Authorized by GenBank. LDH may have the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 49, but may comprise, without limitation, any protein sequence having the activity of the enzyme. Furthermore, the gene encoding LDH can be represented by the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 50, but can include any sequence encoding the enzyme without limitation.
 
 
 
   以上所描述的各酵素可無受限制地包含在內，除了由SEQ ID NOS所表示的胺基酸序列之外，還包含與以上所列之各胺基酸序列具有70%同源性或更高、具體地80%或更高、更具體地90%或更高、甚至更具體地95%或更高、甚至還更具體地98%或更高、甚至還再更具體地99%或更高之任何胺基酸序列，只要酵素呈現與各酵素實際上相同或相當之功效。此外，儘管該酵素可具有部分刪除、修飾、取代或添加之胺基酸序列，任何具有上述之同源性以及具有對各酵素相當之功效的任何經修飾的酵素，很明顯地可屬於本申請之範圍。
 Each of the enzymes described above may be included without limitation, in addition to the amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NOS, or 70% homology to each of the amino acid sequences listed above or more High, specifically 80% or higher, more specifically 90% or higher, even more specifically 95% or higher, even more specifically 98% or higher, even more specifically 99% or more Any amino acid sequence is high as long as the enzyme exhibits substantially the same or equivalent effect as each enzyme. Furthermore, although the enzyme may have a partially deleted, modified, substituted or added amino acid sequence, any modified enzyme having the above homology and having comparable efficacy to each enzyme is clearly applicable to the present application. The scope.
 
 
 
   此外，編碼各酵素的基因亦可無受限制地包含在內，除了由SEQ ID NOS所表示的核苷酸序列之外，還包含與以上所列之各核苷酸序列具有80%同源性或更高、具體地90%或更高、更具體地95%或更高、甚至更具體地98%或更高、以及甚至還更具體地99%或更高之任何核苷酸序列，只要編碼該酵素之序列具有與各酵素實質上相同或相當之功效。此外，儘管該序列可具有其中部分刪除、修飾、取代或添加，具有上述之同源性之任何核苷酸序列，很明顯地可屬於本申請之範圍。
 Furthermore, the gene encoding each enzyme may also be included without limitation, and in addition to the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID NOS, it also contains 80% homology with each nucleotide sequence listed above. Any nucleotide sequence which is higher, specifically 90% or higher, more specifically 95% or higher, even more specifically 98% or higher, and even more specifically 99% or higher, as long as The sequence encoding the enzyme has substantially the same or equivalent efficacy as each enzyme. Furthermore, although the sequence may have any nucleotide sequence in which the above-described homology is partially deleted, modified, substituted or added, it is obviously within the scope of the present application.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「同源性」意謂兩個多核苷酸或多肽部分之間之一致性的百分比。從一部分至另一部分之序列對應性可利用本領域之已知的技術來測定。舉例而言，兩個多核苷酸分子或兩個多肽分子之間的同源性，可藉由利用輕易可得且能夠排比序列資料之電腦
軟體(例如，BLAST 2.0)直接地排比序列資料(例如，參數諸如計分、一致性及相似性)而測定。此外，可在同源區域形成穩定雙股的條件下藉由雜合多核苷酸以及藉由單股專一性的核酸酶水解該雜合股以測定水解片段的大小，以測定同源性。
 As used herein, the term "homology" means the percentage of identity between two polynucleotide or polypeptide portions. Sequence correspondence from one portion to another can be determined using techniques known in the art. For example, homology between two polynucleotide molecules or two polypeptide molecules can be achieved by utilizing a computer that is readily available and capable of sequencing sequence data.
Software (eg, BLAST 2.0) is measured directly against sequence data (eg, parameters such as scoring, consistency, and similarity). Furthermore, the size of the hydrolyzed fragment can be determined by measuring the size of the hydrolyzed fragment by heterozygous polynucleotides and by single-strand specific nucleases under conditions in which the homologous regions form stable double strands to determine homology.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「內生性活性」意謂微生物具有酵素的自然狀態或在該相對應之酵素修飾之前具有酵素之激活位準之情況。
 As used herein, the term "endogenous activity" means that the microorganism has the natural state of the enzyme or the activation level of the enzyme prior to the corresponding enzyme modification.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「相較於其內生性活性之酵素的活性係經修飾為去活化」意謂相較於天然菌株或修飾前菌株者之編碼酵素之基因完全不表現，或者甚至當該基因表現，但無活性或活性降低。
 As used herein, the term "the activity of an enzyme that is compared to its endogenous activity is modified to be deactivated" means that the gene encoding the enzyme is not expressed at all compared to the natural strain or the pre-modified strain, or even when This gene is expressed but has no activity or reduced activity.
 
 
 
   上述之降低係一概念，其包含相較於微生物原本擁有之內生性活性者，由於編碼酵素之基因之修飾等等，酵素本身之活性降低的情形，相較於野生型菌株或修飾前菌株者之細胞內酵素活性的整體位準較低的情形，以及亦包含其組合。
 The above-mentioned concept of reduction is based on the fact that the activity of the enzyme itself is reduced as compared with the wild-type strain or the pre-modified strain, compared to the endogenous activity originally possessed by the microorganism, the modification of the gene encoding the enzyme, and the like. The overall level of intracellular enzyme activity is low, and also includes combinations thereof.
 
 
 
   酵素之去活化可藉由本領域之各種不同的已知方法來完成。方法的實例包含利用降低酵素活性之突變的基因，取代染色體上編碼該酵素之基因的方法，其包含該酵素活性被去除之情形；在染色體之編碼該酵素之基因之表現調控序列中引入修飾之方法；利用具有弱或無活性之序列，取代編碼該酵素之基因的表現調控序列之方法；在染色體全部或部分刪除編碼該酵素之基因之方法；在染
色體引入互補結合至基因的轉錄本之反義寡核苷酸(例如，反義RNA)，從而抑制自mRNA轉譯成該酵素之方法；將SD序列之互補序列人工地插入編碼該酵素之基因之SD序列的上游，以形成二級結構，從而使核糖體無法附著於其之方法；將啟動子插入開讀框(open reading frame,ORF)之3’端，以誘導反轉錄工程(reverse transcription engineering,RTE)之方法等等，以及也可以係上述的組合，但不限於此。
 Deactivation of the enzyme can be accomplished by a variety of known methods in the art. Examples of the method include a method of replacing a gene encoding a gene on a chromosome by using a gene which reduces a mutation in an enzyme activity, which includes a case where the activity of the enzyme is removed; and a modification is introduced in a expression control sequence of a gene encoding the enzyme of the chromosome Method of using a weak or inactive sequence to replace a regulatory sequence encoding a gene encoding the enzyme; deleting the gene encoding the enzyme in whole or in part of the chromosome;
The chromophore introduces an antisense oligonucleotide (eg, antisense RNA) that complements the transcript of the gene, thereby inhibiting the translation of the mRNA into the enzyme; artificially inserting the complementary sequence of the SD sequence into the gene encoding the enzyme The upstream of the SD sequence to form a secondary structure, so that the ribosome cannot be attached to it; the promoter is inserted into the 3' end of the open reading frame (ORF) to induce reverse transcription engineering (reverse transcription) The method of engineering, RTE, and the like, and may also be a combination of the above, but is not limited thereto.
 
 
 
   具體地，全部或部分刪除編碼該酵素之基因之方法可藉由在菌株內使用插入染色體之載體，並利用多核苷酸或核酸序列中部份刪除之標識基因取代染色體中編碼內生性標的蛋白質之多核苷酸而實施。在刪除部分或全部之基因之方法的例示性實施例中，刪除基因的方法可藉由使用同源重組。
 Specifically, the method of deleting the gene encoding the enzyme in whole or in part can replace the protein encoding the endogenous target in the chromosome by using the vector inserted into the chromosome in the strain and using the partially deleted marker gene in the polynucleotide or nucleic acid sequence. Implemented with a polynucleotide. In an exemplary embodiment of the method of deleting some or all of the genes, the method of deleting the gene can be performed by using homologous recombination.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「部分」可取決於多核苷酸的種類而多樣化，且其可具體地意謂1至300，更具體地1至100，以及甚至更具體地1至50，但特別不限於此。
 As used herein, the term "portion" may vary depending on the species of polynucleotide, and may specifically mean from 1 to 300, more specifically from 1 to 100, and even more specifically from 1 to 50, but Especially not limited to this.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「同源重組」意謂在具有相互同源之遺傳鏈位置上，經由互換而發生的基因重組。
 As used herein, the term "homologous recombination" means genetic recombination that occurs via interchange at positions of genetic strands that are homologous to each other.
 
 
 
   具體地，該表現調控序列可藉由在表現調控序列之核酸序列中經由刪除、插入、非保守型或保守型取代、或其組合而引入表現調控序列之修飾；或經由利用較
弱的啟動子取代等等而經修飾。該表現調控序列可包含啟動子、操作子序列、編碼核糖體結合區域之序列，以及控制轉錄及轉譯之終止的序列。
 Specifically, the expression control sequence can be introduced into a modification of the expression control sequence by deletion, insertion, non-conservative or conservative substitution, or a combination thereof in the nucleic acid sequence expressing the regulatory sequence;
Weak promoters are substituted and the like are modified. The expression control sequence may comprise a promoter, an operator sequence, a sequence encoding a ribosome binding region, and a sequence that controls termination of transcription and translation.
 
 
 
   再者，染色體上的基因序列可藉由在用以降低酵素活性的基因序列中經由經由刪除、插入、非保守型或保守型取代、或其組合而於該序列中引入修飾；或經由利用已經改良為具有較弱活性之基因序列或已經改良為不具活性之基因序列取代而經修飾。
 Furthermore, the gene sequence on the chromosome can be introduced into the sequence by deletion, insertion, non-conservative or conservative substitution, or a combination thereof, in a gene sequence for reducing enzyme activity; or Modifications are modified to have weaker active gene sequences or have been modified to be non-active gene sequence substitutions.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「相較於其內生性活性之活性增強」意謂相較於其自然狀態下所擁有之蛋白質活性，藉由修飾蛋白質以改良細胞內的活性而於微生物中增加蛋白質(或酵素)的細胞內活性。由於蛋白質(或酵素)本身的活性增加，因此「增強」可包含起因於蛋白質(或酵素)本身活性的增加而較原本功能引出更高功效，且其可藉由選自下列所成群組的至少一種方法而實施：增加編碼蛋白質(或酵素)之多核苷酸的複本數之方法、於編碼蛋白質(或酵素)之基因之調控序列中引入修飾作用之方法、以具有強活性之序列取代染色體之編碼蛋白質(或酵素)之基因之調控序列之方法、以突變的基因取代編碼蛋白質(或酵素)之基因以增加蛋白質(或酵素)之活性之方法，以及在染色體之編碼蛋白質(或酵素)之基因引入修飾以增強蛋白質(或酵素)之活性之方法，但可無受限制地包含相較於其內生性活性，能夠增強蛋白質(或酵素)之活性或增強經引入的活性的任何已知方法。
 As used herein, the term "enhanced activity relative to its endogenous activity" means that the protein is added to the microorganism by modifying the protein to improve the activity in the cell as compared to the protein activity possessed by its natural state. (or enzyme) intracellular activity. Since the activity of the protein (or enzyme) itself is increased, "enhancement" may include an increase in the activity of the protein (or enzyme) itself, which is more effective than the original function, and which can be grouped by the following group By at least one method: a method of increasing the number of copies of a polynucleotide encoding a protein (or an enzyme), a method of introducing a modification into a regulatory sequence of a gene encoding a protein (or an enzyme), and replacing a chromosome with a sequence having a strong activity A method for encoding a regulatory sequence of a gene (or an enzyme) gene, a method of replacing a gene encoding a protein (or an enzyme) with a mutant gene to increase the activity of a protein (or an enzyme), and a protein (or enzyme) encoded on a chromosome The gene introduces a modification to enhance the activity of the protein (or enzyme), but may include, without limitation, any known substance capable of enhancing the activity of the protein (or enzyme) or enhancing the introduced activity compared to its endogenous activity. method.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「引入蛋白質(或酵素)之活性」意謂對微生物提供特定蛋白質(或酵素)之活性，該微生物不具該特定蛋白質(或酵素)之活性；或在微生物內增加特定蛋白質(或酵素)之細胞內活性，該微生物不具該特定蛋白質(或酵素)之活性而在對該微生物提供該特定蛋白質(或酵素)之活性後，藉由修飾該微生物以進一步改良該蛋白質(或酵素)之細胞內的活性。
 As used herein, the term "introducing the activity of a protein (or enzyme)" means providing the microorganism with the activity of a specific protein (or enzyme) that does not have the activity of the particular protein (or enzyme); or increases the specificity within the microorganism. The intracellular activity of a protein (or enzyme) that does not have the activity of the specific protein (or enzyme) and, after providing the microorganism with the activity of the specific protein (or enzyme), further modifies the protein by modifying the microorganism ( Or the activity of the cells in the enzyme).
 
 
 
   「引入蛋白質(或酵素)之活性」可藉由本領域之各種不同的已知方法實施，例如：將包含編碼蛋白質(或酵素)之核苷酸序列的多核苷酸插入染色體中之方法；藉由諸如經由引入載體系統而將多核苷酸引入微生物之方法而增加多核苷酸之複本數之方法；將能夠呈現改良活性之啟動子或將啟動子具有修飾之蛋白質(或酵素)引入至編碼該蛋白質(或酵素)之核苷酸序列的上游區域之方法；引入編碼蛋白質(或酵素)之核苷酸變異序列之方法等等，但是可無受限制地包含能夠引入蛋白質(或酵素)之活性的任何已知方法。
 "Initiation of the activity of a protein (or enzyme)" can be carried out by various known methods in the art, for example, a method of inserting a polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a protein (or an enzyme) into a chromosome; A method of increasing the number of copies of a polynucleotide, such as by introducing a polynucleotide into a microorganism via introduction of a vector system; introducing a promoter capable of exhibiting improved activity or a protein (or enzyme) having a modified promoter to encode the protein a method of upstream region of a nucleotide sequence of (or an enzyme); a method of introducing a nucleotide variation sequence encoding a protein (or an enzyme), and the like, but may include, without limitation, an activity capable of introducing a protein (or an enzyme) Any known method.
 
 
 
   上述中，多核苷酸之複本數的增加可在多核苷酸被可操作地連接於載體之形式中，或藉由將多核苷酸插入宿主細胞之染色體實施，然而方法並不特別地限定於其等。具體地，多核苷酸之複本數的增加可藉由引入其無關於宿主細胞而能夠複製及作用且本申請之編碼蛋白質之多核苷酸被可操作地連接於其等之載體而實施；或可藉由引入能夠將多核苷酸插入宿主細胞之染色體且該多核苷酸
被可操作地連接於其等之載體而實施。
 In the above, the increase in the number of copies of the polynucleotide may be carried out in the form in which the polynucleotide is operably linked to the vector, or by inserting the polynucleotide into the chromosome of the host cell, but the method is not particularly limited thereto. Wait. Specifically, the increase in the number of copies of the polynucleotide can be carried out by introducing a vector which is capable of replication and action without regard to the host cell and the polynucleotide encoding the protein of the present application is operably linked thereto; or By introducing a polynucleotide capable of inserting a polynucleotide into a host cell and the polynucleotide
It is implemented by a carrier operatively connected to it or the like.
 
 
 
   載體為包含編碼標的胜肽之多核苷酸之序列的DNA建構體，該序列係被可操作地連接於適當的調控序列，使在宿主細胞內能夠表現該標的胜肽。調控序列包含能啟始轉錄的啟動子、可調控轉錄之任何操作子序列、編碼適當的mRNA核糖體結合域之序列，以及調控轉錄及轉譯之終止之序列。該載體經轉形至適當的宿主細胞之後，可無關於宿主基因體而複製及作用，或者可併入宿主本身的基因體。
 A vector is a DNA construct comprising a sequence encoding a polynucleotide of the target peptide, operably linked to appropriate regulatory sequences to enable expression of the target peptide in a host cell. The regulatory sequences include a promoter capable of initiating transcription, any operator sequence that regulates transcription, a sequence encoding an appropriate mRNA ribosomal binding domain, and a sequence that regulates the termination of transcription and translation. After transformation into a suitable host cell, the vector can be replicated and acted upon regardless of the host genome, or can be incorporated into the genome of the host itself.
 
 
 
   至於酵母菌表現載體，可使用整合型酵母質體(integrative yeast plasmid,YIp)以及染色體外質體。染色體外質體可包含附加型酵母質體(episomal yeast plasmid,YEp)、複製型酵母質體(replicative yeast plasmid,YRp)，以及酵母中節質體(yeast centromere plasmid,YCp)。此外，人工酵母染色體(artificial yeast chromosomes,YACs)也可以依據本申請使用作為表現載體。舉例而言，用於本申請之載體可包含 pESC-HIS、pESC-LEU、pESC-TRP、pESC-URA、Gateway pYES-DEST52、pAO815、pGAPZ A、pGAPZ B、pGAPZ C、pGAP α A、pGAP α B、pGAP α C、pPIC3.5K、pPIC6 A、pPIC6 B、pPIC6 C、pPIC6 α A、pPIC6 α B、pPIC6 α C、pPIC9K、pYC2/CT、pYD1 Yeast Display Vector、pYES2、pYES2/CT、pYES2/NT A、pYES2/NT B、pYES2/NT C、pYES2/CT、pYES2.1、pYES-DEST52、pTEF1/Zeo、pFLD1、PichiaPink     TM     、p427-TEF、p417-CYC、pGAL-MF、p427-TEF、   p417-CYC、PTEF-MF、pBY011、pSGP47、pSGP46、pSGP36、pSGP40、ZM552、pAG303GAL-ccdB、pAG414GAL-ccdB、pAS404、pBridge、pGAD-GH、pGAD T7、pGBK T7、pHIS-2、pOBD2、pRS408、pRS410、pRS418、pRS420、pRS428、 yeast micron A form 、pRS403、pRS404、pRS405、pRS406、pYJ403、pYJ404、pYJ405 ，以及 pYJ406 ，但不限於其等。
 As the yeast expression vector, an integrative yeast plasmid (YIp) and an extrachromosomal plastid can be used. The extrachromosomal plastid may comprise an episomal yeast plasmid (YEp), a replicating yeast plasmid (YRp), and a yeast centromere plasmid (YCp). In addition, artificial yeast chromosomes (YACs) can also be used as expression vectors in accordance with the present application. For example, vectors for use in the present application may comprise  pESC-HIS, pESC-LEU, pESC-TRP, pESC-URA, Gateway pYES-DEST52, pAO815, pGAPZ A, pGAPZ B, pGAPZ C, pGAP α A, pGAP α B, pGAP α C, pPIC3.5K, pPIC6 A, pPIC6 B, pPIC6 C, pPIC6 α A, pPIC6 α B, pPIC6 α C, pPIC9K, pYC2/CT, pYD1 Yeast Display Vector, pYES2, pYES2/CT, pYES2/ NT A, pYES2 / NT B,  pYES2 / NT C, pYES2 / CT, pYES2.1, pYES-DEST52, pTEF1 / Zeo, pFLD1, PichiaPink TM, p427-TEF, p417-CYC, pGAL-MF, p427-TEF,  p417-CYC, PTEF-MF, pBY011, pSGP47, pSGP46, pSGP36, pSGP40, ZM552, pAG303GAL-ccdB, pAG414GAL-ccdB, pAS404, pBridge, pGAD-GH, pGAD T7, pGBK T7, pHIS-2, pOBD2, pRS408, pRS410, pRS418, pRS420, pRS428,  yeast micron A form  , pRS403, pRS404, pRS405, pRS406, pYJ403, pYJ404, pYJ405  , and  pYJ406  , but are not limited thereto. 
 
 
   更具體地，酵母菌載體可為包含複製起點(origin, ori )以及抗生素抗性卡匣之酵母複製型質體，其可增殖且在 E.coli 中進行篩選。一般而言，表現載體可包含啟動子-基因-轉錄終止序列之表現建構體。
 More specifically, the yeast vector can be a yeast replicating plastid comprising an origin of origin (  ori  ) and an antibiotic resistant cassette, which can be propagated and screened in  E. coli  . In general, a performance vector can comprise a construct construct of a promoter-gene-transcription termination sequence. 
 
 
   舉例而言，當宿主細胞為酵母菌時，可使用於表現建構體之啟動子可包含 TEF1 啟動子、 TEF2 啟動子、 GAL10 啟動子、 GAL1 啟動子、 ADH1 啟動子、 ADH2 啟動子、 PHO5 啟動子、 GAL1-10 啟動子、 TDH3 啟動子( GPD 啟動子)、 TDH2 啟動子、 TDH1 啟動子、 PGK1 啟動子、 PYK2 啟動子、 ENO1 啟動子、 ENO2 啟動子，以及 TPI1 啟動子，但不限於其等。
 For example, when the host cell is a yeast, a promoter can be used for expression construct may comprise the body of the promoter  TEF1,   TEF2  promoter,  GALl0  promoter,  GALl  promoter,  ADHl  promoter,  the ADH2  promoter,  PH05  promoter  ,  GAL1-10 promoter,  the TDH3  promoter  (GPD  promoter),  TDH2  promoter,  the TDH1  promoter,  PGKl  promoter, promoter  of PYK2,   ENOl  promoter,  EN02  promoter, and  the TPI1  promoter, and the like, but not limited thereto . 
 
 
   可使用於表現建構體之轉錄終止序列可包含 ADH1 終止子、 CYC1 終止子、 GAL10 終止子、 PGK1 終止子、 PHO5 終止子、 ENO1 終止子、 ENO2 終止子，以及 TPI1 終止子，但不限於其等。
 Expression construct can be used for transcript termination sequence may comprise the  ADH1  terminator,  CYCl  terminator,  GALl0  terminator, terminator  PGKl,   PH05  terminator, terminator  ENOl,   EN02  terminator, and the  TPI1  terminator, and the like, but not limited thereto . 
 
 
   此外，編碼內生性標的蛋白質之多核苷酸可在宿主細胞內藉由用以插入染色體之載體，在染色體內被經修飾的多核苷酸置換。或者，欲引入至染色體之編碼外
源標的蛋白質之多核苷酸可被經修飾的多核苷酸置換。將多核苷酸插入染色體可利用本領域之已知的任何方法實施，例如，藉由同源重組。由於本申請之載體可經由同源重組插入染色體中，因此可進一步包含篩選標識以確認載體插入至染色體。該篩選標識係用於經轉形細胞之篩選，即，確認標的多核苷酸是否已經被插入，且可使用能夠提供篩選表型之標識，諸如抗藥性、營養需求、抗細胞抑制劑，以及表面蛋白質之表現。在以篩選試劑處理的情況下，只有能夠表現篩選標識之細胞可以存活或表現其他的表型性狀，而因此可以篩選經轉形的細胞。
 Furthermore, a polynucleotide encoding an endogenous target protein can be replaced in a host cell by a modified polynucleotide in a chromosome by a vector for insertion into a chromosome. Or, to be introduced outside the coding of the chromosome
The polynucleotide of the source protein can be replaced by a modified polynucleotide. Insertion of a polynucleotide into a chromosome can be performed using any method known in the art, for example, by homologous recombination. Since the vector of the present application can be inserted into a chromosome via homologous recombination, a screening marker can be further included to confirm insertion of the vector into the chromosome. The screening marker is for screening of transformed cells, ie, confirming whether the target polynucleotide has been inserted, and using markers capable of providing a screening phenotype, such as resistance, nutritional requirements, anti-cytostatics, and surface The performance of protein. In the case of treatment with a screening reagent, only cells capable of expressing the marker can survive or exhibit other phenotypic traits, and thus the transfected cells can be screened.
 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「轉形」意謂引入包含編碼標的蛋白之多核苷酸之載體至宿主細胞內，從而能夠在宿主細胞內表現由該多核苷酸編碼之蛋白質的過程。至於轉形多核苷酸，只要其可在宿主細胞內表現，不管其係插入至宿主細胞之染色體並座落於其內，或者座落於染色體外皆可。此外，多核苷酸包含編碼標的蛋白之DNA及RNA。只要多核苷酸可被引入至宿主細胞內並在其內表現，多核苷酸可利用任何形式插入。舉例而言，多核苷酸可利用表現卡匣之形式引入至宿主細胞內，表現卡匣係一基因建構體，其包含自我表現所需的所有必要元件。表現卡匣傳統地可包含可操作地連接於多核苷酸之啟動子、轉錄終止訊號、核糖體結合區域以及轉譯終止訊號。表現卡匣可為能夠自我複製之表現載體的形式。此外，多核苷酸可直接引入至宿主細胞內且可操作地連接於對其在宿主細
胞內表現之必要的序列。
 As used herein, the term "transformation" means the introduction of a vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding a target protein into a host cell, thereby enabling expression of the protein encoded by the polynucleotide in the host cell. The transposon polynucleotide is as long as it can be expressed in a host cell, whether it is inserted into the chromosome of the host cell and is located therein, or is located outside the chromosome. In addition, the polynucleotide comprises DNA and RNA encoding the target protein. The polynucleotide may be inserted in any form as long as the polynucleotide can be introduced into and expressed within the host cell. For example, a polynucleotide can be introduced into a host cell in the form of a cassette, representing a cassette-gene construct that contains all of the necessary elements required for self-expression. The performance cassette can traditionally comprise a promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide, a transcription termination signal, a ribosome binding region, and a translation termination signal. A performance card may be in the form of a performance carrier capable of self-replication. In addition, the polynucleotide can be introduced directly into the host cell and operably linked to it in the host
The necessary sequence for intracellular expression.
 
 
 
   此外，如本文中所使用，術語「可操作地連接」意謂在啟動子與上述標的基因序列之間的功能性連接，該啟動子可啟動並調控本申請之編碼標的蛋白之多核苷酸的轉錄。
 Furthermore, as used herein, the term "operably linked" means a functional linkage between a promoter and the above-described target gene sequence which initiates and regulates the polynucleotide encoding the target protein of the present application. Transcription.
 
 
 
   轉形本申請之載體之方法可包含其可將核酸引入至細胞之任何方法，且該轉形可藉由依據宿主細胞而選擇本領域已知的合適之技術來實施。舉例而言，該方法可包含電穿孔法、磷酸鈣(CaPO 4 )沉澱法、氯化鈣(CaCl 2 )沉澱法、顯微注射法、聚乙二醇(polyethylene glycol,PEG)方法、DEAE-右旋糖方法、陽離子脂質體鈣及醋酸鋰/DMSO方法等等，但不限於此。
 The method of transforming the vector of the present application may comprise any method by which the nucleic acid can be introduced into a cell, and the transformation can be carried out by selecting a suitable technique known in the art in accordance with the host cell. For example, the method may include electroporation, calcium phosphate (CaPO  4  ) precipitation, calcium chloride (CaCl  2  ) precipitation, microinjection, polyethylene glycol (PEG), DEAE- The dextrose method, the cationic liposome calcium, the lithium acetate/DMSO method, and the like, but are not limited thereto. 
 
 
   具體地，所使用的宿主細胞應具有高效率的DNA引入以及所引入DNA的高表現效率，依據本申請之目的，宿主細胞可為 Saccharomyces 屬之微生物。
 In particular, the host cell used should have high efficiency of DNA introduction and high expression efficiency of the introduced DNA, and for the purposes of the present application, the host cell can be a microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  . 
 
 
   然後，為了增加多核苷酸之表現而在表現調控序列中之修飾的引入，雖然不特別限定於此等，可藉由經由刪除、插入、保守型取代或非保守型取代、或其組合以引入核酸序列之修飾而實施，以進一步增強表現調控序列之活性；或者藉由以具有增強活性之核酸序列置換多核苷酸序列。該表現調控序列，雖然不特別限定於其等，可包含啟動子、操作子序列、編碼核糖體結合區域之序列以及用以調控轉錄與轉譯之終止的序列等等。
 Then, the introduction of the modification in the expression control sequence in order to increase the expression of the polynucleotide, although not particularly limited thereto, can be introduced by deletion, insertion, conservative substitution or non-conservative substitution, or a combination thereof. Modification of the nucleic acid sequence is carried out to further enhance the activity of the expression control sequence; or by replacing the polynucleotide sequence with a nucleic acid sequence having enhanced activity. The expression control sequence, although not particularly limited thereto, may include a promoter, an operator sequence, a sequence encoding a ribosome binding region, and a sequence for regulating termination of transcription and translation, and the like.
 
 
 
   取代原始啟動子，強的外源啟動子可連接於
多核苷酸之表現單元的上游區域。
 Substituting the original promoter, a strong exogenous promoter can be ligated to
The upstream region of the unit of expression of the polynucleotide.
 
 
 
   一般而言，相較於野生型蛋白質之活性或濃度，蛋白質活性的引入或增強可增加該對應之蛋白質的活性或濃度或在微生物菌株內從至少10%、25%、50%、75%、100%、150%、200%、300%、400%或500%，至1000%或2000%之最大量。
 In general, the introduction or enhancement of protein activity may increase the activity or concentration of the corresponding protein or from at least 10%, 25%, 50%, 75% within the microbial strain, as compared to the activity or concentration of the wild-type protein. The maximum amount of 100%, 150%, 200%, 300%, 400% or 500% to 1000% or 2000%.
 
 
 
   在另一態樣中，本申請提供製造乳酸之方法，其包含a)培養製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces 屬的新穎微生物，其中該微生物係經修飾以於培養基中去活化相較於其內生性活性之丙酮酸脫羧酶(PDC)活性、引入ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶(ACL)之活性，以及增強相較於其內生性生合成途徑之丙酮酸生合成途徑；以及b)從經培養的微生物及培養物回收乳酸。
 In another aspect, the present application provides a method of producing lactic acid comprising: a) cultivating a novel microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  producing lactic acid, wherein the microorganism is modified to deactivate the acetone in the medium compared to its endogenous activity Acid decarboxylase (PDC) activity, introduction of ATP-citrate lyase (ACL) activity, and enhancement of the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway compared to its endogenous biosynthetic pathway; and b) cultured microorganisms and cultures Recover lactic acid. 
 
 
   製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces 屬的微生物與上述之微生物相同。
 The microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  producing lactic acid is the same as the microorganism described above. 
 
 
   如本文中所使用，術語「培養」意謂在合適的人工調節環境下使微生物生長。在本申請中，培養使用的 Saccharomyces 屬的微生物可藉由本領域熟知的合適方法來實施。具體地，該培養可在連續地批式製程、饋料批式，或重複的饋料批式製程中實施，但不限於此。
 As used herein, the term "cultivating" means the growth of a microorganism under a suitable artificially regulated environment. In the present application, the microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  used in the culture can be carried out by a suitable method well known in the art. Specifically, the culture can be carried out in a continuous batch process, a feed batch, or a repeated feed batch process, but is not limited thereto. 
 
 
   本申請用於培養微生物之培養基以及其他培養條件並不特別地限定，用於傳統培養 Saccharomyces 屬之微生物的任何培養基皆可使用。具體地，本申請之微生物可在含有合適的碳源、氮源、磷來源、無機化合物、胺基
酸及/或維生素等等之傳統培養基內，在好氧環境下調節溫度、pH等條件培養。
 The medium for culturing microorganisms and other culture conditions of the present application are not particularly limited, and any medium for conventionally cultivating microorganisms of the genus  Saccharomyces  can be used. Specifically, the microorganism of the present application can be cultured in a conventional medium containing a suitable carbon source, a nitrogen source, a phosphorus source, an inorganic compound, an amino acid, and/or a vitamin, etc., under conditions of aerobic environment, such as temperature and pH. . 
 
 
   作為碳源之實例可使用蔗糖或葡萄糖，而包含大量蔗糖的糖蜜也可以作為碳源，且亦可使用其他適量之各種不同的碳源。
 As an example of the carbon source, sucrose or glucose can be used, and molasses containing a large amount of sucrose can also be used as a carbon source, and other suitable amounts of various carbon sources can also be used.
 
 
 
   氮源之實例可包含有機氮源，諸如蛋白腖、酵母萃取物、濃稠肉汁、麥芽萃取物、玉米浸液，以及大豆粉；而無機氮源諸如尿素、硫酸銨、氯化銨、磷酸銨、碳酸銨，以及硝酸銨。這些氮源可單獨使用或組合使用。在上述培養基中，可包含磷酸二氫鉀、磷酸氫二鉀，以及相對應的含鈉鹽類作為磷來源。此外，可含有金屬鹽，諸如硫酸鎂或硫酸鐵。再者，可含有胺基酸、維生素，以及合適的前驅物。這些培養基或前驅物可在批式培養製程或連續培養製程中添加至培養物。
 Examples of the nitrogen source may include an organic nitrogen source such as peptone, yeast extract, thick gravy, malt extract, corn steep liquor, and soy flour; and inorganic nitrogen sources such as urea, ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate , ammonium carbonate, and ammonium nitrate. These nitrogen sources may be used singly or in combination. In the above medium, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, and a corresponding sodium-containing salt may be contained as a phosphorus source. Further, it may contain a metal salt such as magnesium sulfate or iron sulfate. Further, it may contain amino acids, vitamins, and suitable precursors. These media or precursors can be added to the culture in a batch culture process or a continuous culture process.
 
 
 
   在培養過程中，可藉由以合適的方式添加諸如氫氧化銨、氫氧化鉀、氨水、磷酸，以及硫酸之化合物至培養物，以調節培養物之pH。此外，在培養過程中，可添加諸如脂肪酸聚二醇酯之消泡劑，來避免產生泡沫。此外，為了維持培養物之有氧狀態，可將氧氣或含氧氣體注入培養物中，且為了維持培養物之缺氧以及微需氧狀態，可將氮氣、氫氣，或二氧化碳氣體注入培養物，而不注入空氣。
 During the cultivation, the pH of the culture can be adjusted by adding a compound such as ammonium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonia, phosphoric acid, and sulfuric acid to the culture in a suitable manner. In addition, an antifoaming agent such as a fatty acid polyglycol ester may be added during the cultivation to avoid foaming. In addition, in order to maintain the aerobic state of the culture, oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas may be injected into the culture, and in order to maintain the hypoxia and microaerobic state of the culture, nitrogen, hydrogen, or carbon dioxide gas may be injected into the culture. Without injecting air.
 
 
 
   正常的培養溫度可從20℃至40℃，具體地，從25℃至35℃，且更具體地為30℃，但依據所需之目的
而可不受限制的變化溫度。此外，培養物可連續培養至獲得所需的產物為止，且具體地從10小時至100小時，但不限於此。
 The normal culture temperature can be from 20 ° C to 40 ° C, specifically from 25 ° C to 35 ° C, and more specifically 30 ° C, but depending on the desired purpose
The temperature can be changed without restriction. Further, the culture may be continuously cultured until the desired product is obtained, and specifically from 10 hours to 100 hours, but is not limited thereto.
 
 
 
   本申請之製造乳酸之方法可包含從經培養的微生物或培養物回收乳酸。從經培養的微生物或培養物回收乳酸可利用本領域已知且合適的方法來完成，例如，離心、過濾、陰離子交換層析法、結晶、HPLC等等，但不限於此。
 The method of making lactic acid of the present application may comprise recovering lactic acid from a cultured microorganism or culture. Recovery of lactic acid from the cultured microorganism or culture can be accomplished by methods known in the art and suitable, for example, centrifugation, filtration, anion exchange chromatography, crystallization, HPLC, and the like, but is not limited thereto.
 
 
 
   該回收可包含純化過程。
 This recovery can include a purification process.
 
 
 
 
   【實施例】 [Examples] 
 
 
 
   於下文中，將伴隨例示性實施例以詳細描述本申請。然而，本文中所揭示之例示性實施例僅出於說明之目的，而不應被視為限制本申請之範圍。
 Hereinafter, the present application will be described in detail with the accompanying exemplary embodiments. However, the illustrative embodiments disclosed herein are for illustrative purposes only and are not to be considered as limiting the scope of the application.
 
 
 
 
   實施例1：乳酸製造菌株之製備 Example 1: Preparation of a lactic acid producing strain 
 
 
 
   為了製備本申請所使用之代表性的乳酸製造菌株， Saccharomyces cerevisiae CEN.PK2-1D ，其為取自於Euroscarf之野生型酵母菌株中的代表性酵母菌株，接受一系列的遺傳操作。
 To prepare a representative lactic acid producing strain used in the present application,  Saccharomyces cerevisiae CEN.PK2-1D  , which is a representative yeast strain from a wild-type yeast strain of Euroscarf, undergoes a series of genetic manipulations. 
 
 
   具體地，使用已刪除 D -乳酸脫氫酶1(DLD1)之菌株作為本申請之基礎菌株，並刪除乙醇脫氫酶1(ADH1)及丙酮酸脫羧酶1(PDC1)，以最小化製造醇之醱酵，而阻斷乳酸分解的途徑。
 Specifically, a strain in which  D  -lactate dehydrogenase 1 (DLD1) has been deleted is used as a base strain of the present application, and alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (ADH1) and pyruvate decarboxylase 1 (PDC1) are deleted to minimize alcohol production. It ferments and blocks the pathway of lactic acid decomposition. 
 
 
   DLD1並非直接影響菌株生長改善之因子，但是作為 D -型乳酸之脫氫酶，目前已知DLD1係可使用NAD + 
將乳酸轉為丙酮酸之主要酵素。據此，隨後的菌株係基於刪除其為乳酸消耗酵素之DLD1基因之菌株來製備，並比較乳酸之生產率。
 DLD1 is not a factor directly affecting the growth of the strain, but as a  D  -type lactic dehydrogenase, it is known that the DLD1 system can use NAD  + to  convert lactic acid into the main enzyme of pyruvic acid. Accordingly, the subsequent strain was prepared based on the strain which deleted the DLD1 gene which is a lactate depleting enzyme, and compared the productivity of lactic acid. 
 
 
   在本申請中，基因操作係利用一般的分子選殖方法來實施。首先，依據參考文獻(Lee TH, et al .,J Microbiol.Biotechnol.(2006),16(6),979-982)之內容，利用 pWAL100 及 pWBR100 質體來實施刪除酵素之ADH1及PDC1基因的實驗。每一個併入各質體之插入物係使用對應於各插入物之引子(SEQ ID NO：1至SEQ ID NO：8)藉由聚合酶連鎖反應(polymerase chain reaction,PCR)來製備。
 In the present application, genetic manipulation is carried out using general molecular selection methods. First, according to the contents of the reference (Lee TH,  et al  ., J Microbiol. Biotechnol. (2006), 16 (6), 979-982), the  pWAL100  and  pWBR100  plastids were used to perform the deletion of the ADH1 and PDC1 genes of the enzyme. experiment. Each of the inserts incorporated into each plastid was prepared by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers corresponding to each insert (SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 8). 
 
 
   PCR係使用野生型酵母菌株之基因體DNA作為模板而實施。針對刪除ADH1，其係使用SEQ ID NO：1及SEQ ID NO：2引子來實施PCR，且所得物係使用限制酶 BamH I及 Nco I選殖至 pWAL100 。其他的PCR係使用SEQ ID NO：3及SEQ ID NO：4引子來實施且所得物係使用限制酶 BamH I及 Nco I選殖至 pWBR100 。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘30秒而實施。
 The PCR system was carried out using the genetic DNA of a wild-type yeast strain as a template. For the deletion of ADH1, PCR was carried out using the primers of SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ ID NO: 2, and the resulting  strain was  selected to  pWAL100  using restriction enzymes  BamH  I and  Nco  I. Additional PCRs were performed using the primers SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4 and the resulting lines were  cloned  to  pWBR100  using the restriction enzymes  BamH  I and  Nco  I. The PCR system was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. 
 
 
   針對刪除PDC1，其係使用SEQ ID NO：5及SEQ ID NO：6引子來實施PCR，且所得物係使用限制酶 BamH I及 Nco I選殖至 pWAL100 。其他的PCR係使用SEQ ID NO：7及SEQ ID NO：8引子來實施且所得物係使用限制酶 BamH I及 Nco I選殖至 pWBR100 。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘30秒
而實施。
 For deletion of PDC1, PCR was carried out using the primers of SEQ ID NO: 5 and SEQ ID NO: 6, and the resulting  strain was  selected to  pWAL100  using restriction enzymes  BamH  I and  Nco  I. Additional PCRs were performed using the primers SEQ ID NO: 7 and SEQ ID NO: 8 and the resulting lines were  cloned  to  pWBR100  using the restriction enzymes  BamH  I and  Nco  I. The PCR system was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. 
 
 
   此外，針對刪除DLD1基因，HIS3標識基因係藉由經由雙交換而引入並刪除。本文所使用之DNA片段係藉由使用野生型酵母菌株之基因體DNA以及SEQ ID NO：9及SEQ ID NO：10引子實施PCR而獲得。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘30秒而實施。
 Furthermore, for deletion of the DLD1 gene, the HIS3 marker gene was introduced and deleted by double exchange. The DNA fragment used herein was obtained by performing PCR using the genomic DNA of the wild type yeast strain and the primers of SEQ ID NO: 9 and SEQ ID NO: 10. The PCR system was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute and 30 seconds.
 
 
 
   在基因操作中所使用之引子總結於下列表1。
 The primers used in the genetic manipulation are summarized in Table 1 below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   基於具有刪除三個基因( ADH1、PDC1 及 DLD1 )之菌株，引入用於乳酸製造之D-乳酸脫氫酶(D-LDH)。衍生自於胚芽乳酸桿菌( Lb.plantarum) 之 1dhD 基因之5’端及3’端分別插入至 p413TEF1 載體使 1dhD 基因可被包含介於 TEF1 啟動子及衍生自釀酒酵母( S.cerevisiae) 之 CYC1 終止子之間，其中該插入物係藉由 Sax I/ Pvu II雙分解而製備。該載體係在經 Bam HI/ Not I雙分解之 p-δ-neo 載體之DNA片段內，使用綠豆核酸酶製備為鈍端，且再以 Sac I處理，從而產生具有 Sac I黏端及 Bam HI鈍端之載體部分。
 D-lactate dehydrogenase (D-LDH) for lactic acid production was introduced based on a strain having deletion of three genes (  ADH1, PDC1,  and  DLD1  ). The 5' and 3' ends of the  1dhD  gene derived from  Lac  .  plantarum  are inserted into the  p413TEF1  vector, respectively. The  1dhD  gene can be contained between the  TEF1  promoter and  CYC1  derived from  S. cerevisiae.  Between terminators, wherein the insert is prepared by double decomposition of  Sax  I/  Pvu  II. The carrier system, within its  Bam  HI /  Not  DNA fragment  p-δ-neo  vector of I double decomposition, the use of mung bean nuclease preparation of blunt ends, and then to  Sac  I treatment, thereby producing a  Sac  I sticky end and a  Bam  HI The carrier portion of the blunt end. 
 
 
   由此獲得的載體及該插入物接合至完整的 pTL573 載體，並命名為 pTL537 質體。該 pTL537 質體包含衍生自 Lb.plantarum 之 1dhD 基因並經分解，以使複數的複本可隨機地插入δ-序列，該δ序列係 S.cerevisiae CEN.   PK2-1D pdc1 adh1 d1d1 菌株之反轉錄轉座子之部分區域。針對相對應基因之多個插入，利用 Sac I分解 pTL537 質體以製備可於δ-序列內誘發單交換之DNA片段。該所得物藉由轉染技術引入至母株，並在YPD(1%酵母萃取物、2%細菌用-蛋白腖以及2%葡萄糖)培養基內且在5mg/mL G418之最大濃度，獲得眾多菌落。已證實由此獲得的菌株最後經插入複數的 Lb.plantarum -衍生之 D -LDH，以提供 D -型乳酸生產率且該菌株命名為 CC02-0064 。
 The vector thus obtained and the insert were  ligated  into the entire  pTL573  vector and designated as  pTL537  plastid. The  pTL537  plastid comprises a  1dhD  gene derived from  Lb.plantarum  and is decomposed such that a plurality of copies can be randomly inserted into the δ-sequence, which is a reverse transcription of the  S. cerevisiae CEN.   PK2-1D pdc1 adh1 d1d1  strain. Part of the seat. For the multiple insertions of the corresponding genes, the  pTL537  plastid was decomposed using  Sac  I to prepare a DNA fragment capable of inducing single exchange within the δ-sequence. The resultant was introduced into the mother strain by transfection technique, and numerous colonies were obtained in YPD (1% yeast extract, 2% bacterial-peptone and 2% glucose) medium and at a maximum concentration of 5 mg/mL G418. It was confirmed that the strain thus obtained was finally inserted into a plurality of  Lb.plantarum  -derived  D-  LDH to provide  D  -type lactic acid productivity and the strain was named  CC02-0064  . 
 
 
 
   實施例2：具減低效價或經去活化的PDC之菌株之製備 Example 2: Preparation of strains with reduced potency or deactivated PDC 
 
 
 
   具減低效價或經去活化的PDC之菌株係藉由準備於實施例1所製備之基礎菌株， CC02-0064 菌株中，具有刪除PDC5，即PDC同功異構酶，以及於 CC02-0064 菌株中具有刪除PDC5及PDC6之菌株來製備。
 The strain with reduced titer or deactivated PDC was prepared by the base strain prepared in Example 1,  CC02-0064  strain, with deletion of PDC5, ie PDC isomeric isomerase, and strain  CC02-0064  The strain having PDC5 and PDC6 deleted was prepared. 
 
 
   具體地，使用為了刪除基因之酵母菌、 pWAL100 及 pWBR100 質體( J.Microbiol.Biotechnol .,(2006)16(6),979-982)。
 Specifically, yeasts,  pWAL100,  and  pWBR100  plastids for deleting genes were used (  J. Microbiol  .  Biotechnol  ., (2006) 16(6), 979-982). 
 
 
   針對刪除PDC5，PCR係使用引子SEQ ID NO：11及SEQ ID NO：12來實施，且所得物使用限制酶 BamH I及 Not I選殖入 pWAL100 。額外的PCR係使用引子SEQ ID NO：13及SEQ ID NO：14來實施，且所得物使用限制酶 Spe I及 Nco I選殖入 pWBR100 。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘30秒而實施。
 For the deletion of PDC5, the PCR was carried out using primers SEQ ID NO: 11 and SEQ ID NO: 12, and the resultant was  cloned  into  pWAL100  using restriction enzymes  BamH  I and  Not  I. Additional PCR was performed using primers SEQ ID NO: 13 and SEQ ID NO: 14, and the resulting construct was  cloned  into  pWBR100  using restriction enzymes  Spe  I and  Nco  I. The PCR system was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. 
 
 
   針對刪除PDC6，PCR係使用引子SEQ ID NO：15及SEQ ID NO：16來實施，且所得物使用限制酶 BamH I及 Not I選殖入 pWAL100 。額外的PCR係使用引子SEQ ID NO：17及SEQ ID NO：18來實施，且所得物使用限制酶 Spe I及 Nco I選殖入 pWBR100 。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘30秒而實施。
 For the deletion of PDC6, the PCR was carried out using primers SEQ ID NO: 15 and SEQ ID NO: 16, and the resultant was  cloned  into  pWAL100  using restriction enzymes  BamH  I and  Not  I. Additional PCR was performed using primers SEQ ID NO: 17 and SEQ ID NO: 18, and the resulting construct was  cloned  into  pWBR100  using restriction enzymes  Spe  I and  Nco  I. The PCR system was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   以上製備之新菌株分別命名為 CC02-0256 及 CC02-0553 ，且該新菌種之基因特質總結於下表3。
 The new strains prepared above were named  CC02-0256  and  CC02-0553  , respectively, and the genetic traits of the new strains are summarized in Table 3 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   實施例3：具減低或經去活化的PDC活性之菌株之乳酸生產率之評估 Example 3: Evaluation of lactic acid productivity of strains with reduced or deactivated PDC activity 
 
 
 
   使用於評估菌株之培養基為合成的複合(synthetic complex,SC)培養基。針對培養基之製備，依據製造商之議定書，將胺基酸缺陷型混合物(Sigma)與作為鹼
基之不含胺基酸之0.67%酵母氮基質混合，且依需求加入不含於其中的胺基酸。加入濃度為380mg/L之白胺酸，且分別加入濃度為76mg/L之尿嘧啶、色胺酸及組胺酸，以及將作為碳源之葡萄糖(8%)及作為中和劑之1% CaCO 3 加入其中。由此製備之培養基用來作為酵母菌株之乳酸醱酵之評估。
 The medium used to evaluate the strain is a synthetic complex (SC) medium. For the preparation of the medium, the amino acid-deficient mixture (Sigma) is mixed with a 0.67% yeast nitrogen substrate as a base-free amino acid according to the manufacturer's protocol, and an amine group not contained therein is added as needed. acid. Add lysine at a concentration of 380 mg/L, and add uridine, tryptophan and histidine at a concentration of 76 mg/L, and glucose (8%) as a carbon source and 1% as a neutralizing agent. CaCO  3 is  added thereto. The medium thus prepared was used as an evaluation of lactic acid fermentation of yeast strains. 
 
 
   作為評估菌株之乳酸醱酵能力之條件，製備評估乳酸醱酵之培養基可在各燒瓶內分量為25mL且與各個燒瓶接種酵母菌株，於30℃好氧性地培養48小時，且藉由HPLC分析存在於醱酵液內之乳酸量。
 As a condition for evaluating the lactic acid fermentation ability of the strain, a medium for evaluating lactic acid fermentation can be prepared in an amount of 25 mL in each flask, and a yeast strain is inoculated with each flask, and aerobically cultured at 30 ° C for 48 hours, and analyzed by HPLC. The amount of lactic acid present in the mash.
 
 
 
   實施例之結果總結於下表4。
 The results of the examples are summarized in Table 4 below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   如同結果所示，可由以上表4證實當PDC活性降低時，產率提升，但生產率下降。
 As shown by the results, it can be confirmed from the above Table 4 that when the PDC activity is lowered, the yield is increased, but the productivity is lowered.
 
 
 
 
   實施例4：基於經PDC去活化之菌株，引入ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶(ACL)以及製備具增強之磷酸烯醇丙酮 Example 4: Introduction of ATP-citrate lyase (ACL) and preparation of enhanced phosphoenol acetone based on PDC deactivated strains 
 
 
   酸羧化激酶1(PCK1)及丙酮酸激酶2(PYK2)活性之菌株 Acid carboxylase kinase 1 (PCK1) and pyruvate kinase 2 (PYK2) active strains 
 
 
 
 
   (1)用於引入外來的ACL至乳酸製造菌株之載體之製備 (1) Preparation of a carrier for introducing a foreign ACL to a lactic acid producing strain 
 
 
 
   製備用於引入外來的ACL酵素以及同時過度表現PCK1及PYK2(丙酮酸生合成之途徑之一)之重組載體。
 A recombinant vector for introducing a foreign ACL enzyme and simultaneously overexpressing PCK1 and PYK2 (one of the pathways for pyruvate synthesis) was prepared.
 
 
 
   使用衍生自哺乳動物小鼠( Mus musculus) 之外來的ACL基因，且該對應基因係經由NCBI(登錄號NP_001186225)確認。
 An ACL gene derived from a mammalian mouse (  Mus musculus) was  used, and the corresponding gene was confirmed by NCBI (Accession No. NP_001186225). 
 
 
   具體地，該基因係使用SEQ ID NO：29之胺基酸序列(或SEQ ID NO：30之胺基酸序列)合成，該載體係使用基於酵母菌之基因表現載體 pRS415 之GPD啟動子製備，且製備插入有該基因之載體，並命名為 p415GPDpro-ACL 。
 Specifically, the gene is synthesized using the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 29 (or the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 30) prepared  using  the GPD promoter of the yeast-based gene expression vector  pRS415  , The vector into which the gene was inserted was prepared and designated as  p415GPDpro-ACL  . 
 
 
 
   (2)具增強PCK1及PYK2以提高丙酮酸生合成途徑之載體之製備 (2) Preparation of a carrier with enhanced PCK1 and PYK2 to enhance the pyruvate biosynthesis pathway 
 
 
 
   製備用於同時過度表現PCK1及PYK2以提高丙酮酸生合成途徑之重組載體。
 A recombinant vector for simultaneously overexpressing PCK1 and PYK2 to increase the pyruvate biosynthesis pathway was prepared.
 
 
 
     PYK2 係存在於酵母菌微生物內之基因且可由SEQ ID NO：33表示。PCR係使用 S.cerevisiae 之基因體DNA作為模板以及引子SEQ ID NO：19及20而實施，且從此獲得 PYK2 基因之片段。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘30秒而實施。選殖係使用該基因片段以及在衍生自 pRS416 之酵母菌表
現載體內的限制酶，即 Spe I、 Xho I而實施，且過度表現係使用 TEF1 啟動子來實施。
   PYK2  is a gene existing in a yeast microorganism and can be represented by SEQ ID NO:33. The PCR system was carried out using the genomic DNA of  S. cerevisiae  as a template and the primers SEQ ID NOS: 19 and 20, and a fragment of the  PYK2  gene was obtained  therefrom  . The PCR system was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. The colonization was carried out using the gene fragment and restriction enzymes in the yeast expression vector derived from  pRS416  , namely,  Spe  I and  Xho  I, and the overexpression was carried out using the  TEF1  promoter. 
 
 
   相對應之重組載體命名為pRS416-TEF1pro-PYK2。
 The corresponding recombinant vector was named pRS416-TEF1pro-PYK2.
 
 
 
     PYK1 亦是存在於酵母菌微生物之基因且可由SEQ ID NO：31表示。PCR係使用 S.cerevisiae 之基因體DNA作為模板以及引子SEQ ID NO：23及24而實施，且從此獲得 PYK1 基因之片段。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘30秒而實施。PCR係在相同的條件下，使用 S.cerevisiae 之基因體DNA作為模板以及引子SEQ ID NO：21及22以獲得 PCK1 片段，以可使用 TEF2 啟動子表現 PYK1 ，且獲得 TEF2 啟動子之片段。之後，針對在單一重組載體內同時表現 PCK1 及 PYK2 ，使用 Xho I分解上述所製備之 pRS416-TEF1pro-PYK2 重組載體，且同時，使用In-Fusion cloning kit(Clontech)選殖 TEF2 啟動子之片段及 PCK1 片段。最後，製備可分別以 TEF2 啟動子及 TEF1 啟動子之過度表現 PCK1 及 PYK2 之單一重組載體，且該載體命名為 pRS416-TEF1pro-PYK2-TEF2pro-PCK1 。
   PYK1 is  also a gene present in a yeast microorganism and can be represented by SEQ ID NO:31. The PCR system was carried out using the genomic DNA of  S. cerevisiae  as a template and the primers SEQ ID NOS: 23 and 24, and a fragment of the  PYK1  gene was obtained  therefrom  . The PCR system was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute and 30 seconds. The PCR system was  subjected to  the same conditions, using the genomic DNA of  S. cerevisiae  as a template and primers SEQ ID NOS: 21 and 22 to obtain a  PCK1  fragment, to express  PYK1  using the  TEF2  promoter, and to obtain a fragment of the  TEF2  promoter. Thereafter, in order to simultaneously express  PCK1  and  PYK2  in a single recombinant vector,  Xho  I was used to decompose the above-prepared  pRS416-TEF1pro-PYK2  recombinant vector, and at the same time, the In-Fusion cloning kit (Clontech) was used to select a fragment of the  TEF2  promoter and  PCK1  fragment. Finally, a single recombinant vector which overexpresses  PCK1  and  PYK2  , respectively, with the  TEF2  promoter and the  TEF1  promoter, was prepared, and the vector was named  pRS416-TEF1pro-PYK2-TEF2pro-PCK1  . 
 
 
   使用於製備過度表現 PCK1 及 PYK2 之載體之引子總結於下表5。
 The primers used to prepare vectors overexpressing  PCK1  and  PYK2 are  summarized in Table 5 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   (3)引入外來的ACL至具經去活化的PDC之乳酸製造菌株，以及製備具PCK1及PYK2增強活性之菌株 (3) Introducing a foreign ACL to a lactic acid-producing strain with deactivated PDC, and preparing a strain having PCK1 and PYK2 enhancing activity 
 
 
 
   引入在實施例4-(1)中，基於實施例2所製備之 CC02-0553 菌株所製備之外來的ACL，且藉由轉染而插入由實施例4-(2)所製備之同時過度表現PCK1/PYK2之
載體。
 An ACL prepared in accordance with the  CC02-0553  strain prepared in Example 2 was introduced in Example 4-(1), and was inserted by the method of Example 4-(2) by transfection while overexpressing. The carrier of PCK1/PYK2. 
 
 
   轉染係使用經培養於YPD(1%酵母萃取物、2%細菌用-蛋白腖以及2%葡萄糖)培養基之 CC02-0553 以含有0.1M醋酸鋰、0.01M Tris-HCl以及0.001M EDTA之溶液(以下稱為醋酸鋰/TE緩衝液)處理18小時，並與含有40% PEG之醋酸鋰/TE緩衝液於42℃熱處理15分鐘，以插入重組載體之方法來實施。由此製備的菌株分別命名為 CC02-0652 及 CC02-0765 ，且其基因特質總結於下表6。
 The transfection system used  CC02-0553  cultured in YPD (1% yeast extract, 2% bacterial-peptone and 2% glucose) medium to a solution containing 0.1 M lithium acetate, 0.01 M Tris-HCl, and  0.001  M EDTA ( Hereinafter, it was treated with lithium acetate/TE buffer for 18 hours, and heat-treated with a lithium acetate/TE buffer containing 40% PEG at 42 ° C for 15 minutes to carry out a method of inserting a recombinant vector. The strains thus prepared were designated  CC02-0652  and  CC02-0765  , respectively, and their genetic traits are summarized in Table 6 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   實施例5：基於經去活化的PDC之引入ACL，以及評估具PCK1及PYK2增強活性之菌株之醱酵 Example 5: Introduction of ACL based on deactivated PDC, and evaluation of fermentation of strains with PCK1 and PYK2 enhancing activity 
 
 
 
   針對ACL-PCK1-PYK2-增強菌株之評估，乳酸醱酵能力係與實施例3相同之方式評估實施例4-(3)中所製備之具PDC去活化潛勢之菌株。結果總結於下表7。
 For the evaluation of the ACL-PCK1-PYK2-enhanced strain, the lactic acid fermentation ability was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 3, and the strain having the PDC deactivation potential prepared in Example 4-(3) was evaluated. The results are summarized in Table 7 below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   結果為如上表7可證實，引入外來的ACL且在內增強PCK1及PYK2活性之菌株，顯示OD 600 數值增加，其代表相較於經PDC去活化之菌株，細菌生長增加130%；在同一期間內，葡萄糖消耗量增加了100%；以及乳酸醱酵之產率10%的改善。此外，該菌株最後顯示乳酸生產率120%的改善。依據 CC02-0652 菌株之醱酵結果，證實由於藉由新的製造途徑而生成乙醯輔酶A，使引入外來的ACL可增加酵母菌微生物之生長。此外，證實引入外來的ACL不僅能夠增加生長，亦能增加生產率。
 As a result, as shown in Table 7 above, it was confirmed that the strain which introduced the foreign ACL and enhanced the activity of PCK1 and PYK2 showed an increase in the OD  600  value, which represented a 130% increase in bacterial growth compared to the PDC deactivated strain; during the same period Within this, glucose consumption increased by 100%; and the yield of lactic acid fermentation was improved by 10%. In addition, the strain finally showed an improvement of 120% of lactic acid productivity. According to the fermentation results of the  CC02-0652  strain, it was confirmed that the introduction of the exogenous ACL increased the growth of the yeast microorganism due to the production of the coenzyme A by a new manufacturing route. In addition, it was confirmed that the introduction of foreign ACLs not only increased growth but also increased productivity. 
 
 
   再者，由 CC02-0765 菌株之醱酵結果，其證實乳酸醱酵之生產率可進一步藉由增強丙酮酸生合成而增加，因此證實藉由本申請採用新的途徑以生成乙醯輔酶A以及增強丙酮酸生合成之策略以製造乳酸之方法，不僅能增加乳酸醱酵產率以及增加特定微生物之生長，也能增加乳酸醱酵生產率，與現存技術不相類似。
 Furthermore, the fermentation results of the  CC02-0765  strain confirmed that the productivity of lactic acid fermentation could be further increased by enhancing the synthesis of pyruvate, thus confirming that a new route was adopted by the present application to generate acetaminophen coenzyme A and enhance acetone. The strategy of acid synthesis to produce lactic acid not only increases the yield of lactate and increases the growth of specific microorganisms, but also increases the productivity of lactic acid fermentation, which is not similar to existing technologies. 
 
 
   據此，依布達佩斯條約， CC02-0765 菌株在2014年11月28日寄存於韓國微生物保存中心(Korea Culture Center of Microorganisms,KCCM)，寄存編號為 KCCM1161P 。
 Accordingly, according to the Budapest Treaty, the strain  CC02-0765  was deposited at the Korea Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM) on November 28, 2014 under the registration number  KCCM1161P  . 
 
 
 
   實施例6：基於經PDC去活化之菌株之引入ACL以及製備具蘋果酸脫氫酶2(MDH2)及細胞溶質的蘋果酸酶1(MAE1)增強活性之菌株 Example 6: Introduction of ACL based on PDC deactivated strain and preparation of malic acid dehydrogenase 2 (MDH2) and cytosol-producing malic enzyme 1 (MAE1) enhancing activity 
 
 
 
   依據實施例5之結果，證實藉由新的途徑以生成乙醯輔酶A以及增強丙酮酸生合成之策略以增加乳酸醱酵產率、增強具生產率之微生物生長，以及增加乳酸酸醱酵生產率之有效的方法，正因為如此，本申請嘗試證實使用其他的基因來增強丙酮酸生合成是否具有相似的效果。
 According to the results of Example 5, a new route was established to generate acetaminophen coenzyme A and enhance the pyruvate biosynthesis strategy to increase lactate fermentation yield, enhance productivity of microorganism growth, and increase lactic acid fermentation productivity. An effective method, and as such, the present application attempts to demonstrate whether other genes are used to enhance whether pyruvate biosynthesis has a similar effect.
 
 
 
 
   (1)具MDH2及細胞溶質的MAE1增強活性之載體之製備 (1) Preparation of MAE1 enhancing activity carrier with MDH2 and cytosol 
 
 
 
   由於藉由引入外來的ACL所產生的OAA可藉由不同的途徑生合成丙酮酸，本申請之發明人嘗試過度表現原本就位於細胞溶質之MDH2，以及過度表現位於粒線體之酵素，藉由改變其位置至細胞溶質之MAE1。為此，製備重組載體。
 Since the OAA produced by the introduction of the foreign ACL can synthesize pyruvate by different routes, the inventors of the present application attempt to overexpress the MDH2 originally located in the cytosol and overexpress the enzyme located in the mitochondria, Change its position to the cytosol of MAE1. To this end, recombinant vectors are prepared.
 
 
 
     MDH2 係存在於酵母菌微生物內之基因且可由SEQ ID NO：35之胺基酸序列表示。MHD2基因之片段係藉由使用 S.cerevisiae 之基因體DNA作為模板以及引子SEQ ID NO：25及26進行PCR而實施。PCR係以95
℃變性5分鐘，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘，以及72℃聚合1分鐘而實施。由此獲得之 MDH2 基因片段選殖至經限制酶 Spe I及 Nco I消化之 pRS414 載體，其中 MDH2 基因係設置使用TEF1啟動子過度表現。由此獲得的重組載體命名為 pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2 。
   MDH2  is a gene present in a yeast microorganism and can be represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:35. A fragment of the MHD2 gene was carried out by PCR using the genomic DNA of  S. cerevisiae  as a template and primers SEQ ID NOS: 25 and 26. The PCR was carried out by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, cooling at 53 ° C for 1 minute, and polymerization at 72 ° C for 1 minute. The  MDH2  gene fragment thus obtained was  cloned  into the  pRS414  vector digested with the restriction enzymes  Spe  I and  Nco  I, wherein the  MDH2  gene line was overexpressed using the TEF1 promoter. The recombinant vector thus obtained was named  pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2  . 
 
 
     MAE1 係原本存在於酵母菌微生物之粒線體之基因且可由SEQ ID NO：37之胺基酸序列表示。針對在細胞溶質內表現 MAE1 基因，不包括粒線體標的序列(由SEQ ID NO：51之胺基酸序列表示)，將由從 MAE1 基因之起始密碼子所組成之90個核苷酸序列進行選殖。PCR係利用 S.cerevisiae 之基因體DNA作為模板以及引子SEQ ID NO：27及28而實施。PCR係以95℃變性5分鐘進行變性作用，53℃降溫黏合1分鐘進行，以及72℃聚合2分鐘而實施。從此獲得之PCR片段選殖至經限制酶 Spe I及 Xma I消化之 pRS416 載體。為了移除從 MAE1  ORF起始密碼子開始之90個核苷酸序列，以此方式製備SEQ ID NO：27之引子，以獲得從位置91開始之核苷酸序列。此外，嘗試使用 TEF1 啟動子過度表現細胞溶質的 MAE1 。此外，由此製備之重組載體命名為 pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2 及 pRS416-TEF1pro-細胞溶質的MAE1 。使用於製備重組載體，即， pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2 及 pRS416-TEF1pro-細胞溶質的MAE1 之引子總結於下表8。
   MAE1  is a gene originally present in the mitochondria of a yeast microorganism and can be represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:37. For the expression of the  MAE1  gene in the cytosol, excluding the mitochondrial sequence (represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 51), the 90 nucleotide sequence consisting of the start codon from the  MAE1  gene will be carried out. Colonization. The PCR system was carried out using the genomic DNA of  S. cerevisiae  as a template and primers SEQ ID NOS: 27 and 28. The PCR system was denatured by denaturation at 95 ° C for 5 minutes, at 50 ° C for 1 minute, and at 72 ° C for 2 minutes. The PCR fragment obtained  therefrom was  colonized to the  pRS416  vector digested with restriction enzymes  Spe  I and  Xma  I. To remove the 90 nucleotide sequence starting from the  MAE1  ORF start codon, the primer of SEQ ID NO: 27 was prepared in this manner to obtain the nucleotide sequence starting at position 91. In addition, try to use the  TEF1  promoter to overexpress cytosolic  MAE1  . Furthermore, the recombinant vectors thus prepared were designated as  pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2  and  pRS416-TEF1pro-cytosol MAE1  . The primers used to prepare the recombinant vector, i.e.,  MARS for pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2  and  pRS416-TEF1pro-cytosol, are  summarized in Table 8, below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   (2)在具經去活化的PDC之乳酸製造菌株中製備具增強活性的MDH2及細胞溶質的MAE1之菌株 (2) Preparation of a strain of MAE1 with enhanced activity of MDH2 and cytosol in a lactic acid producing strain with deactivated PDC 
 
 
 
   將由實施例4-(1)所製備之經引入外來的ACL之載體，以及由實施例6-(1)所製備之 MDH2 過度表現載體及MAE1過度表現載體，藉由轉染方式選殖基於實施例2所製備之 CC02-0553 菌株。轉染係使用說明於實施例4-(3)之方法來實施。由此製備之菌株命名為 CC02-0821 ，且該菌株之基因特質總結於下表9。
 The vector introduced by the external ACL prepared in Example 4-(1), and the  MDH2  overexpression vector prepared by Example 6-(1) and the MAE1 overexpression vector were selected by transfection method. The  CC02-0553  strain prepared in Example 2. The transfection system was carried out by the method described in Example 4-(3). The strain thus prepared was named  CC02-0821  , and the genetic traits of the strain are summarized in Table 9 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   基於具經去活化的PDC之菌株之引入ACL以及評估具MDH2及細胞溶質的MAE1增強活性之菌株之醱酵 Introduction of ACL based on strains with deactivated PDC and evaluation of strains of MAE1 enhancing activity with MDH2 and cytosol 
 
 
 
   針對ACL-MDH2-細胞溶質的MAE1-增強菌株之評估，乳酸醱酵能力係利用與實施例2相同之方式評估實施例6所製備之具經去活化的PDC之菌株。結果總結於下表10。
 Evaluation of MAE1-enhanced strain against ACL-MDH2-cytosol, lactic acid fermentation ability The strain having deactivated PDC prepared in Example 6 was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 2. The results are summarized in Table 10 below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   結果為如上表10可證實，藉由過度表現MDH2及細胞溶質的MAE1以增強丙酮酸生合成，如同
 CC02-0821 菌株之醱酵能力評估結果亦顯示代表相較於PDC活性經移除之菌株之細菌生長之OD 600 數值增加110%；在同一期間內，葡萄糖消耗量增加80%；以及乳酸醱酵之產率改善6%，如同 CC02-0765 菌株。此外，該菌株最後顯示乳酸生產率90%的改善。依據以上結果，證實不僅在酵母菌微生物內引入外來的ACL改善乳酸的生產率，而且經由不同路徑以增強丙酮酸生合成途徑亦有效於進一步改善乳酸生產率。
 As a result, as shown in the above Table 10, it was confirmed that MAE1 which overexpressed MDH2 and cytosol was used to enhance pyruvate synthesis, and the evaluation results of the fermentation ability of the  CC02-0821  strain also showed that the strain was removed compared to the PDC activity. The OD  600  value of bacterial growth was increased by 110%; during the same period, glucose consumption was increased by 80%; and the yield of lactic acid fermentation was improved by 6%, as in the  CC02-0765  strain. In addition, the strain finally showed an improvement in lactic acid productivity of 90%. Based on the above results, it was confirmed that not only the introduction of foreign ACL into the yeast microorganisms improves the productivity of lactic acid, but also enhances the pyruvate biosynthesis pathway via different routes and is effective for further improving the lactic acid productivity. 
 
 
 
   實施例8：具減低PDC活性之菌株之引入ACL以及製備具PCK1及PYK2增強活性之菌株，以及具MDH2及細胞溶質MAE1增強活性之菌株 Example 8: Introduction of ACL with strains with reduced PDC activity and preparation of strains with PCK1 and PYK2 enhancing activity, and strains with MDH2 and cytosolic MAE1 enhancing activity 
 
 
 
   決定性地從實施例之結果證實，移除PDC效價之菌株可藉由引入外來的ACL以及增強丙酮酸生合成途徑來增加乳酸醱酵之生產率。因此，本申請之發明人嘗試證實來自PDC效價減低之菌株，以及PDC效價經移除之菌株是否能獲得相同的結果。
 Deterministically, it was confirmed from the results of the examples that the strain which removes the PDC titer can increase the productivity of lactic acid fermentation by introducing a foreign ACL and enhancing the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway. Therefore, the inventors of the present application attempted to confirm whether a strain derived from a decrease in PDC titer and a strain having a PDC titer were able to obtain the same result.
 
 
 
   以相同於實施例4-(3)之方式，基於由實施例2所製備之具減低PDC活性之 CC02-0256 菌株，引入由實施例4所製備之重組載體，即 pRS415-GPDpro-ACL 以及 pRS416-TEF1pro-PYK2-TEF2p-PCK1 。由此製備之菌株分別命名為 CC02-0819 以及 CC02-0820 。再者，以相同於實施例4-(3)之方式，基於由實施例2所製備之具減低PDC活性之 CC02-0256 菌株，插入由實施例4所製備之重組載體，即pRS415-GPDpro-ACL以及由實施例6-(1)所製備之
 pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2 及 pRS416-TEFpro-細胞溶質的MAE1 。由此製備之菌株命名為 CC02-0831 ，且該菌株之基因特質總結於下表11。
 In the same manner as in Example 4-(3), the recombinant vector prepared by Example 4,  pRS415-GPDpro-ACL  and  pRS416  , was introduced based on the  CC02-0256  strain having the reduced PDC activity prepared in Example 2.  -TEF1pro-PYK2-TEF2p-PCK1  . The strains thus prepared were named  CC02-0819  and  CC02-0820  , respectively. Further, the recombinant vector prepared in Example 4, pRS415-GPDpro-, was inserted in the same manner as in Example 4-(3) based on the  CC02-0256  strain having the reduced PDC activity prepared in Example 2. ACL and  MAE1  of  pRS414-TEF1pro-MDH2  and  pRS416-TEFpro   -cytosol  prepared by Example 6-(1). The strain thus prepared was named  CC02-0831  , and the genetic traits of the strain are summarized in Table 11 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   實施例9：在具減低PDC活性之菌株之引入ACL以及評估具PCK1及PYK2增強活性之菌株之醱酵作用 Example 9: Introduction of ACL in strains with reduced PDC activity and evaluation of fermentation of strains with PCK1 and PYK2 enhancing activity 
 
 
 
   以相同於實施例3之方式，評估實施例8所製備之 CC02-0819 及 CC02-0820 菌株之乳酸醱酵能力，並以 CC02-0256 菌株作為對照組。實施例結果總結於下表12。
 The lactic acid fermentation ability of the  CC02-0819  and  CC02-0820  strains prepared in Example 8 was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 3, and the  CC02-0256  strain was used as a control group. The results of the examples are summarized in Table 12 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   結果為如上表12可證實，不同於 CC02-0553 菌株， CC02-0256 菌株藉由增加引入外來的ACL以及增強丙酮酸生合成途徑並未呈現顯著增加之效果，但是乳酸醱酵產率有改善、具生產率之微生物之細菌生長有增加，以及乳酸醱酵生產率亦有增加。
 As a result, as shown in Table 12 above, it was confirmed that unlike the  CC02-0553  strain, the  CC02-0256  strain did not exhibit a significant increase in the effect of introducing the foreign ACL and enhancing the pyruvate biosynthesis pathway, but the lactate fermentation yield was improved. The growth of bacteria with productive microorganisms has increased, and the productivity of lactic acid fermentation has also increased. 
 
 
   其中引入外來的ACL且PCK1及PYK2活性增強之 CC02-0820 菌株，顯示OD 600 數值增加，其代表相較於具減低PDC效價之菌株，細菌生長增加80%；在同一期間內，葡萄糖消耗量增加40%；以及乳酸醱酵之產率改善2%。此外，乳酸生產率最終改善40%。相較於僅引入外來的ACL之 CC02-0819 菌株， CC02-0820 菌株顯示OD數值、在同一期間內之葡萄糖消耗量，以及乳酸醱酵之產率皆增加，且顯示生產率20%增加。
 The  CC02-0820  strain, which introduced the foreign ACL and enhanced the activity of PCK1 and PYK2, showed an increase in the OD  600  value, which represented an increase of 80% in bacterial growth compared to the strain with reduced PDC titer; during the same period, glucose consumption An increase of 40%; and a 2% improvement in the yield of lactic acid fermentation. In addition, lactic acid productivity eventually improved by 40%. Compared to the  CC02-0819  strain in which only the foreign ACL was introduced, the  CC02-0820  strain showed an increase in the OD value, the glucose consumption during the same period, and the yield of lactic acid fermentation, and showed a 20% increase in productivity. 
 
 
 
   實施例10：在具減低PDC活性之菌株之引入ACL以及比較評估具MDH2及細胞溶質的MAE1增強活 Example 10: Introduction of ACL in strains with reduced PDC activity and comparative evaluation of MAE1 enhanced activity with MDH2 and cytosol 
 
 
   性之菌株之醱酵作用 Fermentation of sexual strains 
 
 
 
   以相同於實施例3之方式，評估實施例8所製備之 CC02-0831 菌株之乳酸酸醱酵能力，並以 CC02-0256 以及 CC02-0819 菌株作為對照組。實施例結果總結於下表13。
 The lactic acid acid fermentation ability of the  CC02-0831  strain prepared in Example 8 was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 3, and  CC02-0256  and  CC02-0819  strains were used as a control group. The results of the examples are summarized in Table 13 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   其結果，如同上述表13所證實，其中經引入外的ACL以及MDH2及細胞溶質的MAE1經增強的菌株 CC02-0831 ，相較於母株 CC02-0256 ，顯示OD 600 數值y/ru880%，在同一期間內，葡萄糖消耗量增加30%；以及乳酸醱酵之產率改善2%。此外，乳酸生產率最終改善30%。相較於其中僅引入外來ACL之 CC02-0819 菌株， CC02-0831 菌株顯示於OD數值、在同一期間內的葡萄糖消耗量、以及乳酸醱酵的產率皆增加，且顯示生產率增加20%。
 As a result, as demonstrated in Table 13 above, the MAE1-enhanced strain  CC02-0831  in which the ACL and the MDH2 and the cytosol were  introduced  , compared with the parent strain  CC02-0256  , showed an OD  600  value of y/ru 880%. During the same period, glucose consumption increased by 30%; and the yield of lactic acid fermentation increased by 2%. In addition, the lactic acid productivity was finally improved by 30%. Compared to the  CC02-0819  strain in which only the foreign ACL was introduced, the  CC02-0831  strain showed an increase in the OD value, the glucose consumption during the same period, and the yield of lactic acid fermentation, and showed a 20% increase in productivity. 
 
 
   以上結果支持，與現有技術不同，藉由採用利用新的途徑以生成乙醯輔酶A以及增強丙酮酸生合成
之策略以製造乳酸之方法，不僅能增加乳酸醱酵之產率及增強具生產率之微生物生長，而且能增加乳酸醱酵之生產率。尤其，該結果建議，由採用利用引入外來的ACL及增強丙酮酸生合成之新的途徑以生成乙醯輔酶A之策略所製備之微生物，不僅能增加乳酸醱酵之產率及增強具生產率之微生物生長，而且能增加乳酸醱酵之生產率，因此能提供作為極佳的乳酸製造微生物。
 The above results support, unlike the prior art, by using a new approach to generate acetamyl coenzyme A and enhance pyruvate synthesis.
The strategy of producing lactic acid not only increases the yield of lactic acid fermentation and enhances the growth of microorganisms with productivity, but also increases the productivity of lactic acid fermentation. In particular, the results suggest that microorganisms prepared by the strategy of using the introduced ACL and enhancing the new route of pyruvate synthesis to produce acetaminophen A can not only increase the yield of lactic acid fermentation but also enhance productivity. Microbial growth, and can increase the productivity of lactic acid fermentation, can provide microbes as an excellent lactic acid.
 
 
 
   由上述，本領域技術人員對本申請所屬能夠瞭解在不修改本申請技術概念或必要特徵下，本申請可體現於其他形式。在這方面，本文所揭示之例示性實施例僅用於說明用途且不應被詮釋為限制本申請之範圍。相反地，本申請意謂涵蓋不只例示性具體例，還有各種不同的選擇、修飾、同等以及可包含被所附申請專利範圍所限制之本申請之本質及範圍之其他具體例。
 From the above, those skilled in the art can understand that the present application can be embodied in other forms without modifying the technical concept or essential features of the present application. In this regard, the illustrative embodiments disclosed herein are for illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the application. On the contrary, the invention is intended to cover the invention, and the invention
 
 
 
   寄存證明書(中譯本)
 Hosting certificate (Chinese translation)
 
 
 
   布達佩斯條約締約國所承認之專利手續上的微生物寄存的國際寄存機構根據布達佩斯條約第7.1條出具此證明
 The international depository of microbiological deposits in the patent formalities recognized by the parties to the Budapest Treaty issues this certificate in accordance with Article 7.1 of the Budapest Treaty.
 
 
 
   寄存者：CJ第一製糖股份有限公司
 Depositor: CJ First Sugar Co., Ltd.
 
 
 
   地址：大韓民國100-400首爾市 中區 東湖路330 CJ第一製糖中心
 Address: 100-400 Seoul, Republic of Korea Central District 330 CJ First Sugar Center, Donghu Road
 
 
 
   I.微生物身分
 I. Microbial identity
 
 
 
   寄存者給予之編號： Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CC02-0765
 Number given by the depositor:  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CC02-0765 
 
 
   國際寄存機構給予之登錄號：KCCM11616P 
 The registration number given by the international depository: KCCM11616P
 
 
 
   II.科學描述及/或建議的分類名稱
 II. Scientific description and/or suggested classification name
 
 
 
   上述I.所定義之微生物附帶有：
 The microorganisms defined in I. above are accompanied by:
 
 
 
   □科學描述
 □ Scientific description
 
 
 
   □建議的分類名稱
 □Recommended classification name
 
 
 
   (請以■註記)
 (please note with ■)
 
 
 
   III.受領及收存
 III. Acceptance and storage
 
 
 
   本國際寄存機構收存於2014年11月28日(原始寄存日)受領之上述I.所定義之微生物。
 The International Depository Corporation collects the microorganisms defined in the above I. which were received on November 28, 2014 (original deposit date).
 
 
 
   IV.國際寄存機構
 IV. International Depository
 
 
 
   韓國微生物培養中心
 Korea Microbiology Center
 
 
 
   地址：大韓民國120-861首爾市 西大門區 弘濟洞-2-1 45儒林大樓
 Address: 120-861 Seoul, Republic of Korea, Seodaemun-gu, Hongji-dong - 2-1 45 Rulin Building
 
 
 
   國際寄存機構授權人簽署：
 Authorized by the International Depository Authority:
 
 
 
   日期：2014年11月28日
 Date: November 28, 2014
 
 
 
 
 
   <110> CJ第一製糖股份有限公司
 <110> CJ First Sugar Co., Ltd.
 
 
 
   <120> 用於製造乳酸之微生物及使用該微生物製造乳酸的方法
 <120> microorganism for producing lactic acid and method for producing lactic acid using the same
 
 
 
   <130> OPA16043-TW 
 <130> OPA16043-TW
 
 
 
   <150> KR 10-2015-0083658 
 <150> KR 10-2015-0083658
 
 
 
   <151> 2015-06-12 
 <151> 2015-06-12
 
 
 
   <160> 52 
 <160> 52
 
 
 
   <170> KopatentIn 2.0 
 <170> KopatentIn 2.0
 
 
 
   <210> 1 
 <210> 1
 
 
 
   <211> 32 
 <211> 32
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> ADH1上游前置引子
 <223> ADH1 upstream pre-introduction
 
 
 
   <400> 1 
   <400> 1    
 
 
   <210> 2 
 <210> 2
 
 
 
   <211> 44 
 <211> 44
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> ADH1上游反置引子
 <223> ADH1 upstream reverse primer
 
 
 
   <400> 2 
   <400> 2    
 
 
   <210> 3 
 <210> 3
 
 
 
   <211> 37 
 <211> 37
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> ADH1下游前置引子
 <223> ADH1 downstream pre-introduction
 
 
 
   <400> 3 
   <400> 3    
 
 
   <210> 4 
 <210> 4
 
 
 
   <211> 37 
 <211> 37
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> ADH1下游反置引子
 <223> ADH1 downstream reverse primer
 
 
 
   <400> 4 
   <400> 4    
 
 
   <210> 5 
 <210> 5
 
 
 
   <211> 35 
 <211> 35
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> PDC1上游前置引子
 <223> PDC1 upstream pre-introduction
 
 
 
   <400> 5 
   <400> 5    
 
 
   <210> 6 
 <210> 6
 
 
 
   <211> 44 
 <211> 44
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> PDC1上游反置引子
 <223> PDC1 upstream reverse primer
 
 
 
   <400> 6 
   <400> 6    
 
 
   <210> 7 
 <210> 7
 
 
 
   <211> 37 
 <211> 37
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> PDC1下游前置引子
 <223> PDC1 downstream pre-introduction
 
 
 
   <400> 7 
   <400> 7    
 
 
   <210> 8 
 <210> 8
 
 
 
   <211> 44 
 <211> 44
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> PDC1下游前置引子1 
 <223> PDC1 downstream pre-priming 1
 
 
 
   <400> 8 
   <400> 8    
 
 
   <210> 9 
 <210> 9
 
 
 
   <211> 50 
 <211> 50
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> DLD1-HIS3上游聯結引子
 <223> DLD1-HIS3 upstream coupling primer
 
 
 
   <400> 9 
   <400> 9    
 
 
   <210> 10 
 <210> 10
 
 
 
   <211> 50 
 <211> 50
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> DLD1-HIS3下游聯結引子
 <223> DLD1-HIS3 downstream linkage primer
 
 
 
   <400> 10 
   <400> 10    
 
 
   <210> 11 
 <210> 11
 
 
 
   <211> 41 
 <211> 41
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-ALPDC5-BamHI引子
 <223> F-ALPDC5-BamHI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 11 
   <400> 11    
 
 
   <210> 12 
 <210> 12
 
 
 
   <211> 43 
 <211> 43
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-ALPDC5-NotI引子
 <223> R-ALPDC5-NotI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 12 
   <400> 12    
 
 
   <210> 13 
 <210> 13
 
 
 
   <211> 42 
 <211> 42
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-BRPDC5-SpeI引子
 <223> F-BRPDC5-SpeI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 13 
   <400> 13    
 
 
   <210> 14 
 <210> 14
 
 
 
   <211> 42 
 <211> 42
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-BRPDC5-NcoI引子
 <223> R-BRPDC5-NcoI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 14 
   <400> 14    
 
 
   <210> 15 
 <210> 15
 
 
 
   <211> 41 
 <211> 41
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-ALPDC6-BamHI引子
 <223> F-ALPDC6-BamHI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 15 
   <400> 15    
 
 
   <210> 16 
 <210> 16
 
 
 
   <211> 41 
 <211> 41
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-ALPDC6-NcoI引子
 <223> R-ALPDC6-NcoI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 16 
   <400> 16    
 
 
   <210> 17 
 <210> 17
 
 
 
   <211> 40 
 <211> 40
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-BRPDC6-BamHI引子
 <223> F-BRPDC6-BamHI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 17 
   <400> 17    
 
 
   <210> 18 
 <210> 18
 
 
 
   <211> 41 
 <211> 41
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-BRPDC6-NcoI引子
 <223> R-BRPDC6-NcoI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 18 
   <400> 18    
 
 
   <210> 19 
 <210> 19
 
 
 
   <211> 33 
 <211> 33
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-PYK2-SpeI引子
 <223> F-PYK2-SpeI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 19 
   <400> 19    
 
 
   <210> 20 
 <210> 20
 
 
 
   <211> 37 
 <211> 37
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-PYK2-XhoI引子
 <223> R-PYK2-XhoI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 20 
   <400> 20    
 
 
   <210> 21 
 <210> 21
 
 
 
   <211> 42 
 <211> 42
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-PYK2-ADH1t-infusion引子
 <223> F-PYK2-ADH1t-infusion primer
 
 
 
   <400> 21 
   <400> 21    
 
 
   <210> 22 
 <210> 22
 
 
 
   <211> 45 
 <211> 45
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-TEF2p-PCK1-infusion引子
 <223> R-TEF2p-PCK1-infusion primer
 
 
 
   <400> 22 
   <400> 22    
 
 
   <210> 23 
 <210> 23
 
 
 
   <211> 46 
 <211> 46
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-PCK1-TEF2-infusion引子
 <223> F-PCK1-TEF2-infusion primer
 
 
 
   <400> 23 
   <400> 23    
 
 
   <210> 24 
 <210> 24
 
 
 
   <211> 46 
 <211> 46
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-PCK1-infusion引子
 <223> R-PCK1-infusion primer
 
 
 
   <400> 24 
   <400> 24    
 
 
   <210> 25 
 <210> 25
 
 
 
   <211> 38 
 <211> 38
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-MDH2-SpeI引子
 <223> F-MDH2-SpeI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 25 
   <400> 25    
 
 
   <210> 26 
 <210> 26
 
 
 
   <211> 38 
 <211> 38
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-MDH2-XhoI引子
 <223> R-MDH2-XhoI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 26 
   <400> 26    
 
 
   <210> 27 
 <210> 27
 
 
 
   <211> 39 
 <211> 39
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> F-cytMAE1-SpeI引子
 <223> F-cytMAE1-SpeI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 27 
   <400> 27    
 
 
   <210> 28 
 <210> 28
 
 
 
   <211> 36 
 <211> 36
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> R-cytMAE1-XmaI引子
 <223> R-cytMAE1-XmaI primer
 
 
 
   <400> 28 
   <400> 28    
 
 
   <210> 29 
 <210> 29
 
 
 
   <211> 1091 
 <211> 1091
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 小鼠
 <213> mouse
 
 
 
   <400> 29 
           <400> 29            
 
 
   <210> 30 
 <210> 30
 
 
 
   <211> 3276 
 <211> 3276
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 小鼠
 <213> mouse
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1091) 
 <222> (1)..(1091)
 
 
 
   <223> ACL 
 <223> ACL
 
 
 
   <400> 30 
       <400> 30        
 
 
   <210> 31 
 <210> 31
 
 
 
   <211> 549 
 <211> 549
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 31 
     <400> 31      
 
 
   <210> 32 
 <210> 32
 
 
 
   <211> 1650 
 <211> 1650
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1650) 
 <222> (1)..(1650)
 
 
 
   <223> PCK1(SGD,YKR097W) 
 <223> PCK1 (SGD, YKR097W)
 
 
 
   <400> 32 
     <400> 32      
 
 
   <210> 33 
 <210> 33
 
 
 
   <211> 506 
 <211> 506
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 33 
       <400> 33        
 
 
   <210> 34 
 <210> 34
 
 
 
   <211> 1521 
 <211> 1521
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1521) 
 <222> (1)..(1521)
 
 
 
   <223> PYK2(SGD,YOR347C) 
 <223> PYK2 (SGD, YOR347C)
 
 
 
   <400> 34 
     <400> 34      
 
 
   <210> 35 
 <210> 35
 
 
 
   <211> 377 
 <211> 377
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 35 
     <400> 35      
 
 
   <210> 36 
 <210> 36
 
 
 
   <211> 1134 
 <211> 1134
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1134) 
 <222> (1)..(1134)
 
 
 
   <223> MDH2(SGD YOL126C) 
 <223> MDH2(SGD YOL126C)
 
 
 
   <400> 36 
   <400> 36    
 
 
   <210> 37 
 <210> 37
 
 
 
   <211> 669 
 <211> 669
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 37 
         <400> 37          
 
 
   <210> 38 
 <210> 38
 
 
 
   <211> 2010 
 <211> 2010
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(2010) 
 <222> (1)..(2010)
 
 
 
   <223> MAE1(SGD YKL029C) 
 <223> MAE1(SGD YKL029C)
 
 
 
   <400> 38 
     <400> 38      
 
 
   <210> 39 
 <210> 39
 
 
 
   <211> 563 
 <211> 563
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 39 
       <400> 39        
 
 
   <210> 40 
 <210> 40
 
 
 
   <211> 1692 
 <211> 1692
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1692) 
 <222> (1)..(1692)
 
 
 
   <223> PDC1(SGD YLR044C) 
 <223> PDC1(SGD YLR044C)
 
 
 
   <400> 40 
     <400> 40      
 
 
   <210> 41 
 <210> 41
 
 
 
   <211> 563 
 <211> 563
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 41 
       <400> 41        
 
 
   <210> 42 
 <210> 42
 
 
 
   <211> 1692 
 <211> 1692
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1692) 
 <222> (1)..(1692)
 
 
 
   <223> PDC5(SGD YLR134W) 
 <223> PDC5(SGD YLR134W)
 
 
 
   <400> 42 
     <400> 42      
 
 
   <210> 43 
 <210> 43
 
 
 
   <211> 563 
 <211> 563
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 43 
       <400> 43        
 
 
   <210> 44 
 <210> 44
 
 
 
   <211> 1692 
 <211> 1692
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1692) 
 <222> (1)..(1692)
 
 
 
   <223> PDC6(SGD YGR087C) 
 <223> PDC6(SGD YGR087C)
 
 
 
   <400> 44 
     <400> 44      
 
 
   <210> 45 
 <210> 45
 
 
 
   <211> 348 
 <211> 348
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 45 
       <400> 45        
 
 
   <210> 46 
 <210> 46
 
 
 
   <211> 1047 
 <211> 1047
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(1047) 
 <222> (1)..(1047)
 
 
 
   <223> ADH1(SGD YOL086C) 
 <223> ADH1(SGD YOL086C)
 
 
 
   <400> 46 
   <400> 46    
 
 
   <210> 47 
 <210> 47
 
 
 
   <211> 587 
 <211> 587
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <400> 47 
       <400> 47        
 
 
   <210> 48 
 <210> 48
 
 
 
   <211> 1764 
 <211> 1764
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 釀酒酵母
 <213> Saccharomyces Cerevisia
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1).(1764) 
 <222> (1). (1764)
 
 
 
   <223> DLD1(SGD) 
 <223> DLD1 (SGD)
 
 
 
   <400> 48 
     <400> 48      
 
 
   <210> 49 
 <210> 49
 
 
 
   <211> 332 
 <211> 332
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 胚芽乳酸桿菌
 <213> Lactobacillus
 
 
 
   <400> 49 
     <400> 49      
 
 
   <210> 50 
 <210> 50
 
 
 
   <211> 999 
 <211> 999
 
 
 
   <212> DNA 
 <212> DNA
 
 
 
   <213> 胚芽乳酸桿菌
 <213> Lactobacillus
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <221> gene 
 <221> gene
 
 
 
   <222> (1)..(999) 
 <222> (1)..(999)
 
 
 
   <223> 1dhD(登錄號NC_004567) 
 <223> 1dhD (Accession number NC_004567)
 
 
 
   <400> 50 
     <400> 50      
 
 
   <210> 51 
 <210> 51
 
 
 
   <211> 30 
 <211> 30
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> MAE1之粒線體標的序列
 <223> Sequence of the grain line standard of MAE1
 
 
 
   <400> 51 
   <400> 51    
 
 
   <210> 52 
 <210> 52
 
 
 
   <211> 639 
 <211> 639
 
 
 
   <212> PRT 
 <212> PRT
 
 
 
   <213> 人工序列
 <213> Artificial sequence
 
 
 
   <220> 
 <220>
 
 
 
   <223> 經修飾的MAE1 
 <223> Modified MAE1
 
 
 
   <400> 52 
       <400> 52        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
