
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
 This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 17/039,343, filed Sep. 30, 2020, entitled  Hydrangea paniculata  ‘SMNHPH’ LITTLE LIME PUNCH—the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. 
 FIELD OF INVENTION 
 The present disclosure relates to the field of hydrangea plants, and more particularly toward the field of ornamental hydrangea plants and methods of breeding the same. 
 BACKGROUND 
 The genus  Hydrangea paniculata  belongs to the plant family Hydrangeaceae and is divided into 70-75 different species, which are endemic to Asia and North and South America. Although  Hydrangea paniculata  is native to Japan, Taiwan, and parts of China, it is grown in landscapes around the world (3, 9). Breeding efforts have recently been directed towards smaller stature, quality architecture, panicle size, and coverage of sterile (showy) florets, among other attributes. In nature,  H. paniculata  occurs as diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid cytotypes, where 1x=18. There is evidence that most plants in cultivation are tetraploids. 
 In conventional  Hydrangea paniculata  breeding, there has been interest in the development of new forms, brighter aging flower color and earlier flowering plants. The conventional  Hydrangea paniculata  varieties today cover a range of different habits, lace-cap and mop head panicles, and panicle color. 
   Hydrangea paniculata  can be propagated from seed, cuttings, and tissue culture. Germination, and propagation via cutting can be used as well. 
 SUMMARY 
 The cultivar ‘SMNHPH’ has not been observed under all possible environmental conditions. The phenotype may vary somewhat with variations in environment such as temperature, day length, and light intensity, without, however, any variance in genotype. 
 In one embodiment, the following traits have been repeatedly observed and are determined to be the unique characteristics of ‘SMNHPH’. These characteristics in combination distinguish ‘SMNHPH’ as a new and distinct  Hydrangea  cultivar:
         1. Compact plant habit.   2. Flowers age attractively to a rich, deep pink.   3. Exhibits flowers at different age stages throughout transition stages   4. Dense panicle.   5. Thick, durable foliage.   6. Strong stems.   7. Orange fall color.       
 In one embodiment, a hydrangea plant variety may include one or more of the physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’. For instance, the hydrangea plant variety may include one or more of the seven characteristics listed above. In one embodiment, a hydrangea plant variety may include one or more of the following: orange fall color, a dense panicle, and flowers that age attractively to a rich, deep pink. 
 In one embodiment, a method of producing F1 seed or embryo may involve providing a hydrangea plant variety having one or more of the physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, including one or more of the following: compact plant habit, flowers that age attractively to a rich, deep pink, exhibiting flowers at different age stages throughout transition stages, a dense panicle, thick, durable foliage, strong stems, and orange fall color. 
 In one embodiment, a tissue or cell culture of regenerable cells produced from a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ is provided. 
 The foregoing and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features, alone or in combination. In particular, one embodiment includes all the following features in combination. 
 The tissue or cell culture may include tissues or cells from a plant part that include at least one of leaves, pollen, embryos, cotyledons, ovules, protoplasts, callus, pollen, seeds, petiole, hypocotyl, meristematic cells, roots, root tips, pistils, anthers, flowers, and stems. 
 A hydrangea plant regenerated from the tissue or cell culture may be provided. 
 In one embodiment, a method of developing a hydrangea plant variety having the physiological and morphological characteristics of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ may be provided. The method may include genotyping a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, wherein the genotyping includes obtaining a sample of nucleic acids from the plant and detecting in the nucleic acids a plurality of polymorphisms, and using the identified polymorphisms for marker-assisted selection in a breeding program. 
 In one embodiment, a method for developing a hydrangea plant variety may be provided. The method may include one or more of the following steps: a) identifying and selecting a spontaneous mutation of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ or a part thereof, and cultivating the selected spontaneous mutation plant or plant part; b) introducing a mutation into the genome of a plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ or a part thereof, and cultivating the mutated plant or plant part; and c) transforming a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ with a transgene. 
 The foregoing and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features, alone or in combination. In particular, one embodiment includes all the following features in combination. 
 A hydrangea plant may be produced by cultivating the selected spontaneous mutation plant or plant part. 
 A hydrangea plant may be produced by cultivating the mutated plant or plant part. 
 The mutation may be introduced using a method comprising one or more of the following: temperature, long-term seed storage, tissue culture conditions, ionizing radiation, chemical mutagens, targeting induced local lesions in genomes, zinc finger nuclease mediated mutagenesis, CRISPR/Cas9, meganucleases, and gene editing. 
 The method may include the transgene conferring resistance to a herbicide, insecticide, or disease. A herbicide, insecticide, or disease resistant plant may be produced by the method, which includes a transgene conferring resistance. 
 In one embodiment, a method of producing an F1 seed or embryo may be provided, where the method includes crossing a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ with a second plant and harvesting the resultant F1 seed or embryo. 
 The foregoing and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features, alone or in combination. In particular, one embodiment includes all the following features in combination. 
 The method of producing an F1 seed or embryo may include the second plant being another plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’. 
 The method of producing an F1 seed or embryo may include the second plant being a plant of a different variety from the variety ‘SMNHPH’. 
 The method of producing an F1 seed or embryo may include producing a  hydrangea plant by cultivating the harvested F 1 seed or embryo. 
 In one embodiment, a method of producing an F1 seed or embryo may include providing a hydrangea plant having one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’. The method may include crossing the hydrangea plant with a second plant and harvesting the resultant F1 seed or embryo, where the one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant include at least one of orange fall color, a flower panicle density score greater than 85, and flowers that age to a rich, deep pink. 
 The foregoing and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features, alone or in combination. In particular, one embodiment includes all the following features in combination. 
 The hydrangea plant may be produced by cultivating the harvested F1 seed or embryo yielded according to the method of producing an F1 seed or embryo. 
 The one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant include a flower panicle density that is greater than 90. The flower panicle density may be about 137 in one aspect of the hydrangea plant. 
 In one embodiment, a hydrangea plant variety may be provided having one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, where the one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant include at least one of orange fall color, a flower panicle density score greater than 85, and flowers that age to a rich, deep pink. 
 The one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plan may include a flower panicle density that is greater than 90. 
 Before the embodiments of the invention are explained in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the details of operation or to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention may be implemented in various other embodiments and of being practiced or being carried out in alternative ways not expressly disclosed herein. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of “including” and “comprising” and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items and equivalents thereof. Further, enumeration may be used in the description of various embodiments. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the use of enumeration should not be construed as limiting the invention to any specific order or number of components. Nor should the use of enumeration be construed as excluding from the scope of the invention any additional steps or components that might be combined with or into the enumerated steps or components. Any reference to claim elements as “at least one of X, Y and Z” is meant to include any one of X, Y or Z individually, and any combination of X, Y and Z, for example, X, Y, Z; X, Y; X, Z; and Y, Z. 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
 The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee. 
 ‘SMNHPH’ is illustrated by the accompanying photographs which show the plant's form, foliage, and inflorescences. The patent or patent application contains photographs executed in color. The colors shown are as true as can be reasonably obtained by conventional photographic procedures. Colors in the photographs may differ slightly from the color values cited in the detailed botanical description, which accurately describe the colors of the new hybrid  Hydrangea . Age of the plants photographed is between 2 to 3 years. All plants were container grown in Grand Haven, Michigan and photographed during 2020. 
   FIG.  1    shows the pedigree of  Hydrangea paniculata  ‘SMNHPH’. 
   FIG.  2    shows plants of ‘SMNHPH’ grown outdoors in Grand Haven, MI during early Fall (second week of September). Plants have both white and pink flowers. 
   FIG.  3    shows an alternative view of the ‘SMNHPH’ of  FIG.  2   . 
   FIG.  4    shows the inflorescence color of the plants in  FIG.  1    approximately 10 days earlier, before the rich pink color forms. 
   FIG.  5    shows an enlarged view of the plants in  FIG.  4   . 
   FIG.  6    shows an alternative view of the plants in  FIG.  4   . 
   FIG.  7    shows yet another view of the plants in  FIG.  4   . 
   FIG.  8    shows compact habit and plant after all flowers have fully transitioned. 
   FIG.  9    shows an alternative view of the plants in  FIG.  8   . 
   FIG.  10    shows the late Summer (late August) color of a maturing inflorescence, just beginning to change color of a container-grown plant. 
   FIG.  11    shows the early Summer (mid-July) color of a mature inflorescence color of a container-grown plant. 
   FIG.  12    shows an alternative view of  FIG.  11   . 
   FIG.  13    shows an alternative view of  FIG.  11   . 
   FIG.  14    shows orange fall color of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety. 
   FIG.  15    shows progression of fall color of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety from greyed-red to orange-red in one embodiment according to the present disclosure. 
   FIG.  16    shows fall color in one embodiment according to the present disclosure. 
   FIG.  17    shows fall color in one embodiment according to the present disclosure. 
   FIG.  18    shows thick durable, foliage of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety relative to foliage of a conventional  Hydrangea paniculata.    
   FIG.  19    shows another of thick, durable, foliage of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety relative to foliage of a conventional  Hydrangea paniculata.    
   FIG.  20    shows flower panicle density of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety relative to flower panicle density of the ‘DVP PINKY’  Hydrangea paniculata  (PP16,166). 
   FIG.  21    shows flower panicle density of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety relative to flower panicle density of the ‘SMNHPM’ variety  Hydrangea paniculata  (PP32,513). 
   FIG.  22    shows stem strength of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety relative to a conventional  Hydrangea paniculata.    
   FIG.  23    shows stem strength of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety relative to a ‘RENHY’ variety (PP20,670). 
 
 DEFINITIONS 
 In the description and tables herein, a number of terms are used. In order to provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and claims, including the scope to be given such terms, the following definitions are provided: 
 Allele. “Allele” is any of one or more alternative forms for a gene. 
 Border Pattern. A “border pattern” refers to a pattern expressed on the flower where the color along the outer margin of the flower is different from the color of the rest of the flower. The color of the border along the outer margin of the flower may be thick or thin and solid or semi-solid. The color of the border along the outer margin and the rest of the flower may also vary in all colors and border patterns. Color, as referred to here, includes all pigmented colors and shades in-between, white, and unpigmented. 
 Gene. As used herein, “gene” refers to a segment of nucleic acid. 
 Locus. A “locus” is the position or location of a gene on a chromosome. 
 Plant Parts. A “plant part” or “a part thereof” is meant to refer to any part of the plant and includes but is not limited to, regenerable cells which may include plant calli, plant clumps, plant protoplast, plant cells, embryos, protoplasts, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, ovules, anthers, cotyledons, hypocotyl, pistils, roots, root tips, fruit, flowers, seeds, shoot, petiole, or stems. 
 Progeny. As used herein, the descendants of one or more of the parental lines and includes an F 1    Hydrangea paniculata  plant produced from the cross of two  Hydrangea paniculata  plants where at least one plant includes a  Hydrangea paniculata  plant disclosed herein and progeny further includes, but is not limited to, subsequent F 2 , F 3 , F 4 , F 5 , F 6 , F 7 , F 8 , F 9 , and F 10  generational crosses with the recurrent parental line. 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION 
 All publications cited in this application are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. The present disclosure relates to the field of ornamental  Hydrangea paniculata  plants and plant breeding. The disclosure provides new, distinct and stable  Hydrangea paniculata  plants with compact habit, panicle flowers that, with age, transition from lime green to white to bright pink and have multi-age flowers on the same plant in different periods of transition. This combination of traits has not been observed in any known  Hydrangea paniculata , but was discovered through the Applicant's breeding program. 
   Hydrangea paniculata  is considered a valuable ornamental plant. Thus, continuing efforts of ornamental plant breeders are directed to developing plants with novel characteristics, such as strong stems, early flowering, vibrant flower color, and growth habit. To accomplish this goal, the breeder may select and develop plants that have traits that result in superior  Hydrangea paniculata  varieties. 
   Hydrangea paniculata  ‘SMNHPH’ was created by recurrent crossing and selection and is the result of three generations of controlled crossing, and is a hybrid varietal resulting from the crossing of a first varietal and a second varietal by artificial pollination. The first varietal and the second varietal had been previously bred for target characteristics. The first varietal is a female parent (i.e., the seed parent) and is the ‘SMNHPPINO’ variety (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 27,302), which originated from an F2 generation of seed from the ‘BULK’ variety (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 16,812) via open pollination and selection for target properties. The second varietal is the male parent (i.e., the pollen parent) and is an unpatented, Applicant-developed  Hydrangea paniculata  designated by Applicant as the ‘RED SWAN’ variety, which originated from an F2 generation of seed from the ‘BULK’ variety (U.S. Plant Pat. 16,812) via open pollination and selection for target properties. The pedigree for the  Hydrangea paniculata  ‘SMNHPH’ can be summarized by the lineage depicted in  FIG.  1   . 
 The seeds resulting from pollination of the ‘SMNHPPINO’ variety and the ‘RED SWAN’ variety were sown and plants were obtained which were physically and biologically different from each other. Selective study resulted in the identification of a single F1 plant, to yield the  Hydrangea paniculata  ‘SMNHPH’. The resulting plants and the ‘SMNHPH’ plant were cultivated internally and have not been sold or offered for sale more than a year prior to the earliest effective filing date of this application. 
 It has been found that the ‘SMNHPH’ variety described in the present application possesses the following characteristics:
         1. compact plant habit,   2. flowers age attractively to a rich, deep pink,   3. exhibits flowers at different age stages throughout transition stages,   4. dense flower panicle,   5. thick, durable foliage,   6. strong stems, and   7. orange fall color.       
 The ‘SMNHPH’ variety meets the needs of the horticultural industry. It can be grown to advantage as ornamentation in parks, gardens, public areas, and in residential settings. Accordingly, the ‘SMNHPH’ plant is particularly well suited for growing in the landscape. 
 The ‘SMNHPH’ variety of the present application can readily be distinguished from its ancestors. More specifically, the ‘SMNHPPINO’ variety (i.e., the seed parent) exhibits flowers with pale pink color in the Fall, whereas the ‘SMNHPH’ variety exhibits flowers which turn a richer red-pink in the Fall. Additionally, the ‘SMNHPH’ variety has thicker, darker green foliage than the ‘SMNHPPINO’ variety. 
 The ‘RED SWAN’ variety (i.e., the pollen parent) exhibits flowers that turn pink earlier compared to the flowers of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, which stay white longer before turning a rich red-pink. The ‘SMNHPH’ variety also has larger, more dense flowers than the ‘RED SWAN’ variety. 
 The ‘BULK’ variety (i.e., the “grandparent” of both the seed and pollen parent) exhibits less dense open flower panicles, larger more open habit and less vibrant flower age, whereas the ‘SMNHPH’ variety exhibits densely packed flower panicles, tighter internodes, and more rich flower age. 
 Plants of the cultivar ‘SMNHPH’ can be compared to the variety  Hydrangea paniculata  ‘Jane’, USPP 22,330. These varieties are similar in several horticultural characteristics; however, ‘SMNHPH’ differs in one or more of the following:
         1. The ‘SMNHPH’ variety has larger inflorescences than this comparator.   2. Flowers of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety hold their color longer than this comparator.   3. Stems of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety are stronger than stems of ‘Jane’.       
 The ‘SMNHPH’ variety has been found to undergo asexual propagation at a commercial greenhouse in Grand Haven, Michigan. Subsequent asexual propagation has shown that the features of this cultivar are stable and reproduced true to type in four successive generations. 
 As noted above, the ‘SMNHPH’ variety has several characteristics that differ from its ancestors. The ‘SMNHPH’ variety provides a compact habit, and panicle flowers that, when they age, transition from lime green to white to bright red pink. The ‘SMNHPH’ variety exhibits flowers at different age stages, such that an array of colors on the plant are exhibited at the same time. 
 The ‘SMNHPH’ variety or the breeding methods described herein with respect to the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, or both, provide a  Hydrangea paniculata  having one or more characteristics not present in its ancestors. 
 One embodiment of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety or a  Hydrangea paniculata  bred according to the breeding methods described herein, or both, is a compact plant habit. Compact plant habit is defined by internode length for  Hydrangea paniculata , and a plant is considered to be of compact nature if average internode length when grown in a container for commercial sale is 6 cm or less. Plants exhibiting non-compact habits have an average internode length greater than 6 cm and up to but not limited to 8 cm. The ‘SMNHPH’ variety may have an average internode length of between 5 and 6 cm. 
 Another embodiment of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety or a  Hydrangea paniculata  bred according to the breeding methods described herein, or both, is flowers that age attractively to a rich, deep pink. 
 Another embodiment of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety or a  Hydrangea paniculata  bred according to the breeding methods described herein, or both, is exhibits flowers at different age stages throughout transition stages. A conventional  Hydrangea paniculata  has the same age flowers that open and begin their color transition at the same time making a uniform non-contrasting color shift. ‘SMNHP’ may have all flowers formed and spaced generally uniformly on the plant; however, the flowers may be at different ages making a stark contrast when a newly maturing flower is white at the same time that a more mature flower has already progressed to its final bright red pink stage. This behavior can be seen in  FIGS.  2  and  3   . 
 Another embodiment of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety or a  Hydrangea paniculata  bred according to the breeding methods described herein, or both, is dense flower panicles. Panicle density may be defined as a ratio of total (sterile and fertile) flower number divided by the length of panicle. For the ‘SMNHPH’ variety at the early flower maturation (week 1 or 2 post opening) stage of development, average fertile flower count per panicle may be approximately 620 and average sterile florets per panicle may be approximately 238. Total flower number per panicle on the ‘SMNHPH’ variety may be approximately 858 and average length may be 6.29″ for an average density score of 136.41 (flowers per panicle length), which is greater than a density score of 85 and also greater than a density score of 100, in contrast to conventional  Hydrangea paniculata . In one embodiment, the total flower number for the ‘SMNHPH’ variety may be greater than a conventional  Hydrangea paniculata , facilitating a greater density score. Additionally, density of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety may be greater than conventional  Hydrangea paniculata  at least in part because the flower panicle length of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety is shorter than conventional  hydrangea paniculata  for a given number of panicle flowers. In other words, the greater the density score, the greater the density of flower panicles. A conventional  Hydrangea paniculata , such as the ‘DVP PINKY’ (PP16,166), may have a density score of about 73 with a total average number of flowers per panicle being about 766 (557 fertile flowers per head and 209 sterile flowers per head) and an average length of about 10.5″. With a density score of 85 or greater, 90 or greater, 100 or greater, or 130 or greater, the ‘SMNHPH’ variety has greater density flower panicles. Comparing the panicle flower density of the ‘SMNHPM’ variety yields similar results—the ‘SMNHPM’ variety (PP32,513) has a density score of about 81, with 424 flowers (102 fertile flowers per head and 322 sterile flowers per head) and a panicle length of 5.24″. Accordingly, the ‘SMNHPH’ variety has a density of flower panicles that is greater than conventional  Hydrangea paniculata . This increase in density of flower panicles can be seen in  FIGS.  20  and  21   , which show density of flower panicles of ‘SMNHPH’ relative to flower panicles of two conventional  Hydrangea paniculata —the ‘DVP PINKY’ variety and the ‘SMNHPM’ variety. Panicle width may also affect density of flower panicles—but this property is represented within the density score. 
 The density scores identified herein with respect to the ‘SMNHPH’ variety and conventional  Hydrangea paniculata  are measurable at the early flower maturation (week 1 or 2 post opening) stage of development (measurements taken on the same age plants and flowers). It is noted that the physical density may change as the flower matures, sepals fully open, and the panicle continues to grow in length. However, with reference to the late stage or full maturation stage of development, the density score of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety is significantly greater than conventional varieties of  Hydrangea paniculata.    
 Yet another embodiment of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety or a  Hydrangea paniculata  bred according to the breeding methods described herein, or both, is thick, durable foliage. For instance, the leaves may be thicker and more puckered as opposed to the leaves of conventional  Hydrangea paniculata , which have a flimsier feel and are smoother and less venial. A comparison of thicker, durable foliage of ‘SMNHPH’ relative to foliage of a conventional  Hydrangea paniculata  can be seen in  FIGS.  18 - 19   . 
 Another further embodiment of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety or a  Hydrangea paniculata  bred according to the breeding methods described herein, or both, is strong stems. For instance, the stems of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety may prevent the flower head from flopping or falling apart in a container, allowing the ‘SMNHPH’ variety to be bred or offered for sale, or both, without having to individually stake each branch to support the flower head. This strong stem aspect of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety can be seen in  FIGS.  22  and  23    with the branches supporting the flower head in a container in a generally upright manner without stakes or external support. For comparison, two conventional  Hydrangea paniculata  are also shown in  FIGS.  22  and  23    at an age similar to the ‘SMNHPH’ variety and with stems that flop entirely under the weight of the flower heads or spread out relative to the center of the plant under the weight of the flower heads. The strength of the stems of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, in contrast, provides a plant with flower heads that are more upright than the conventional  Hydrangea paniculata , yielding a plant that appears denser per the number of flower heads and that is more manageable for sale and breeding relative to conventional  Hydrangea paniculata.    
 Another embodiment of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety or a  Hydrangea paniculata  bred according to the breeding methods described herein, or both, is orange fall color. Historically and in native populations, fall color of  Hydrangea paniculata  is yellow. Two conventional variety exist that exhibit red fall color ‘SMNHPLQF’ PP25,136 and ‘BULK’ PP16,812. However, orange fall color has not been observed in conventional cultivars of  Hydrangea paniculata . The fall color of ‘SMNHPH’ begins with Greyed-red 178B then progresses to an Orange-Red 35A at outer tips of leaf and blends to Greyed-Orange 163C in interveinal. 
 It is to be understood that one or more embodiments according to the present disclosure may involve breeding, as described herein, to yield a  Hydrangea paniculata  having one or more traits of the ‘SMNHPH’ variety. 
 I. Botanical Description 
 In the following description, color references are made to the Royal Horticultural Society Color Chart 2015 except where general terms of ordinary dictionary significance are used. The following observations and measurements describe ‘SMNHPH’ plants grown in a commercial poly greenhouse in Grand Haven, Michigan under natural lighting. Measurements were taken during Summer of 2020. The plants were about 2.5 years old, growing in 3-gallon pots. The growing temperature ranged from 5° C. to 27° C. Measurements and numerical values represent averages of typical plant types. 
 Botanical classification:  Hydrangea paniculata  ‘SMNHPH’ 
 Propagation
         Time to Initiate Roots: Approximately 18 days at about 18° to 27° C.   Time to produce a rooted young plant: Approximately 60 days at about 18° to 27° C.   Propagation Method: Softwood cuttings.       
 Plant
         Plant type: Flowering deciduous perennial shrub.   Growth Habit: Upward and outward.   Overall Plant Shape: Upright, rounded, compact.   Height: 68 cm.   Plant Spread: 97 cm.   Growth Rate: Good.   Plant vigor: Moderate to vigorous.   Branching Habit: Upright, outward.   Length of Primary Lateral Branches: 55 cm.   Diameter of Lateral Branches: 5 mm.   Quantity of Lateral Branches: 30 to 40.   Stem:
           Stem shape: Round.   Stem strength: Strong.   Color:
               Immature: RHS Grey-Brown N199C.   Mature: RHS Grey-Brown 199B.   
   Pubescence: None.   Angle of attachment: 15° to 45°.   
   Internode length: Average 3 cm.   Root Description: Moderately dense, thick main roots with fine, fibrous secondary roots. Main roots colored near Brown 200D, secondary roots near Yellow-White 158D.       
 Foliage
         Leaf:
           Arrangement: Opposite.   Leaf shape: Elliptic.   Average Length: 4.5 cm.   Average Width: 3.75 cm.   Apex: Cuspidate.   Base: Obtuse   Margin: Serrate.   Texture of top surface: Rough pubescent.   Texture of bottom surface: Leathery with distinct veins.   Color:
               Young foliage upper side: RHS Green 137B.   Young foliage under side: RHS Yellow-Green 147B.   Mature foliage upper side: RHS Green 137B.   Mature foliage under side: RHS Yellow-Green 147D.   Fall foliage upper side: RHS Orange-Red 35A.   Fall foliage under side: RHS Orange-Red 35A.   
   Venation:
               Pattern: Pinnate.   Color upper side: RHS Yellow-Green 151C.   Color under side: RHS Yellow-Green 145C.   Fall color upper side: Greyed-Orange 163C.   Fall color under side: Greyed-Orange 163C.   
   Petiole:
               Average Length: 7 mm.   Diameter: 2 mm.   Petiole color upper side: RHS Green 143C slightly flushed Green-Purple 183C.   Petiole color lower side: RHS Green 143C.   Petiole Texture upper side: Smooth.   Petiole Texture lower side: Slightly pubescent.   
   
       
 Flower
         Natural flowering season: Summer until Fall.   Inflorescence:   Panicle:
           Shape: Very broad deltate.   Height: 13 cm.   Diameter: 11 cm.   Quantity of flowers per inflorescence:
               Fertile flowers: About 100.   Sterile flowers: 200 to 500.   
   Persistent or self-cleaning: Persistent, self-cleaning after several weeks.   Longevity: Individual flowers stay fresh on the plant for about 2 weeks. Inflorescences are ornamental for several weeks.   Fragrance: None detected.   
   Sterile Flower:
           Bud shape: Globose.   Bud length: 2 mm.   Bud diameter: 2 mm.   Bud color: RHS Green-White 157C.   Flower aspect: Outward.   Flower length: 5 mm.   Flower Diameter: 5 mm.   Flower shape: Cruciform.   Persistence: Persistent.   
   Sterile Flower Petals:
           Petal Arrangement: Cruciform.   Quantity: 4.   Length of petal: 2 mm.   Width of petal: 1 mm.   Apex: Acute.   Shape of petal: Narrow deltate.   Petal margin: Entire.   Petal Base: Obtuse.   Petal Texture: Smooth, upper and under side.   
   Color:
           Upper surface at first opening: RHS Green-White 157D.   Under surface at first opening: RHS Green-White 157D.   Upper surface at maturity: RHS Green-White 157D.   Under surface at maturity: RHS Green-White 157D.   
   Sterile Flower Sepal:
           Arrangement: Cruciform.   Number: 4.   Shape: Obovate.   Tip: Obtuse.   Base: Acute.   Margin: Entire.   Length: 1 cm.   Width: 9 mm.   Texture, Upper: Smooth.   Texture, Lower: Smooth.   Color:
               Upper surface at first opening: RHS Green-White 157D.   Under surface at first opening: RHS Green-White 157D.   Upper surface at maturity: RHS White 155A. Late Summer strongly flushed 61B. Maturing to have a flush near Greyed-Purple 186 and 186D.   Under surface at maturity: RHS White 155A. Late Summer strongly flushed 59D. Maturing to have a flush near Red-Purple 63B.   Upper surface, at most mature: RHS Greyed-Purple 186 and 186D   Under surface, at most mature: RHS Greyed-Purple 186 and 186D.   
   
   Sterile Flower Pedicel:
           Length: 1.5 cm.   Diameter: 1 mm.   Angle: 90-130°.   Strength: Flexible.   Texture: Some pubescence.   Color: RHS Greyed-Green 193C.   
   Fertile Flower:
           Shape: Rotate.   Depth: 5 mm.   Diameter: 7 mm.   Flower aspect: Outward.   Persistence: Self-Cleaning.   Longevity: 1-2 weeks.   Bud shape: Orbicular.   Bud length: 3 mm.   Bud diameter. 3 mm.   Bud texture: Glabrous.   Bud color: RHS Green-White 157C.   
   Fertile Flower Petals:
           Arrangement: Rotate to cruciform.   Quantity: 4.   Length of petal: 3 mm.   Width of petal: 2 mm.   Apex: Acute.   Shape of petal: Elliptic.   Petal margin: Entire.   Petal base: Truncate.   Petal Texture: Smooth, upper and under side.   
   Color:
           Upper surface at first opening: RHS White 155C.   Under surface at first opening: RHS White 155C.   Upper surface at maturity: RHS White 155C.   Under surface at maturity: RHS White 155C.   
   Fertile Flower Sepal:
           Arrangement: Cruciform.   Quantity: 4.   Length: 1 mm.   Width: 1 mm.   Apex: Obtuse.   Shape: Orbicular.   Margin: Entire.   Base: Truncate.   Texture: Smooth, upper and under side.   
   Color:
           Upper surface at first opening: RHS Yellow-Green 145C.   Under surface at first opening: RHS Yellow-Green 145C.   Upper surface at maturity: RHS Yellow-Green 145C.   Under surface at maturity: RHS Yellow-Green 145C.   
   Fertile Flower Pedicel:
           Angle: 90° to 130°.   Strength: Moderate.   Length: 5 mm.   Width: 1 mm.   Texture: Slight pubescence.   Color: RHS White 155C.   
       
 Reproductive Organs
         Sterile flowers Androecium: Present.   Stamens: 6 to 0 mm, Inconspicuous, about 1 mm.   Filament: Colored near White NN155A.   Anthers: Less than 1 mm long, colored near White NN155A.   Sterile flowers Gynoecium: Not present.   Fertile flowers:   Stamens:   Number: 8.   Filament length: 3 mm.   Filament color: RHS White 155C.   Anthers:
           Shape: Globular.   Length: <1 mm.   Color: RHS White 155C.   Pollen color: RHS White 155c.   Pollen amount: Moderate.   
   Pistil:
           Number: 1.   Length: Less than 1 mm.   Style:   Length: About 0.5 mm   Color: RHS Yellow-Green 145D.   Stigma:
               Shape: Lobed.   Color: RHS Yellow-Green 145D.   
   
       
 Other Characteristics
         Seeds and fruits: None observed.   Disease/pest resistance: Neither resistance nor susceptibility to normal diseases and pests of  Hydrangea  have been observed.   Temperature tolerance: USDA Zones 3 to 9.       
 II. Using  Hydrangea paniculata  Plants to Develop Other  Hydrangea paniculata  Plants 
 The  Hydrangea paniculata  plants herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, can also provide a source of breeding material that may be used to develop new  Hydrangea paniculata  plants and varieties. Plant breeding techniques known in the art and used in a  Hydrangea paniculata  plant breeding program include, but are not limited to, recurrent selection, mass selection, bulk selection, hybridization, mass selection, backcrossing, pedigree breeding, open-pollination breeding, restriction fragment length polymorphism enhanced selection, genetic marker enhanced selection, making double haploids, mutagenesis and transformation. Often combinations of these techniques may be implemented. There are many analytical methods available to evaluate a new variety. For instance, the observation of phenotypic traits or genotypic analysis, or both, may be used. 
 III. Additional Breeding Methods 
 Any plants produced using the  Hydrangea paniculata  plants disclosed in the present application, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, and at least one parent are also an embodiment. Several methods of breeding the  Hydrangea paniculata  are described herein, but it is to be understood that the present disclosure is not so limited. Any type of breeding methodology may be implemented. 
 Descriptions of breeding methods can be found in one of several reference books (e.g., Allard, “Principles of Plant Breeding” (1999); Vainstein, “Breeding for Ornamentals: Classical and Molecular Approaches,” Kluwer Academic Publishers (2002); Callaway, “Breeding Ornamental Plants,” Timber Press (2000); and Bragdo, Marie, “Inter-specific Crosses in  Lupinus : Cytology and Inheritance of Flower Color,” Institute of Genetics and Plant Breeding, Agricultural College of Norway, Vollebekk, Norway (Sep. 28, 1956)). 
 Breeding steps that may be used in the  Hydrangea paniculata  plant breeding program can include for example, pedigree breeding, backcrossing, mutation breeding, and recurrent selection. In conjunction with these steps, techniques such as RFLP-enhanced selection, genetic marker enhanced selection (for example, SSR markers), and the making of double haploids may be utilized. 
 As used herein, the term “plant” includes plant cells, plant protoplasts, plant cell tissue cultures from which  Hydrangea paniculata  plants can be regenerated, plant calli, plant clumps, and plant cells that are intact in plants or parts of plants, such as pollen, ovules, embryos, protoplasts, meristematic cells, callus, leaves, anthers, cotyledons, hypocotyl, pistils, roots, root tips, seeds, flowers, petiole, shoot, or stems and the like. 
 A. Pedigree Breeding 
 Pedigree breeding starts with the crossing of two genotypes, such as a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, and another different  Hydrangea paniculata  having one or more desirable characteristics that is lacking or which complements a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein. If the two original parents do not provide all the desired characteristics, other sources can be included in the breeding population. In the pedigree method, superior plants are selfed and selected in successive filial generations. In the succeeding filial generations, the heterozygous condition gives way to homogeneous varieties as a result of self-pollination and selection. In the pedigree method of breeding, five or more successive filial generations of selfing and selection may be practiced: F 1  to F 2 ; F 2  to F 3 ; F 3  to F 4 ; F 4  to F 5 ; etc. After a sufficient amount of inbreeding, successive filial generations may serve to increase seed of the developed variety. The developed variety may include homozygous alleles at about 95% or more of its loci. 
 B. Backcross Breeding 
 Backcross breeding has been used to transfer genes for a simply inherited, highly heritable trait into a target homozygous variety or inbred line which is the recurrent parent. The source of the trait to be transferred is called the donor parent. After the initial cross, individuals possessing the phenotype of the donor parent are selected and repeatedly crossed (backcrossed) to the recurrent parent. The resulting plant is expected to have the attributes of the recurrent parent and the desirable trait transferred from the donor parent. 
 In addition to being used to create a backcross conversion, backcrossing can also be used in combination with pedigree breeding. As discussed previously, backcrossing can be used to transfer one or more target traits from one variety, the donor parent, to a developed variety called the recurrent parent, which has commercial characteristics of interest and yet lacks that target trait or traits. However, the same procedure can be used to move the progeny toward the genotype of the recurrent parent, but at the same time retain many components of the nonrecurrent parent by stopping the backcrossing at an early stage and proceeding with selfing and selection. For example, a  Hydrangea paniculata  plant may be crossed with another variety to produce a first-generation progeny plant. The first-generation progeny plant may then be backcrossed to one of its parent varieties to create a BC 1  or BC 2 . Progeny are selfed and selected so that the newly developed variety has many of the attributes of the recurrent parent and yet several of the desired attributes of the nonrecurrent parent. This approach leverages the value and strengths of the recurrent parent for use in new  Hydrangea paniculata  varieties. 
 Therefore, another embodiment is a method of making a backcross conversion of a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, comprising the steps of crossing a  Hydrangea paniculata  with a donor plant comprising a desired trait, selecting an F 1  progeny plant comprising the desired trait, and backcrossing the selected F 1  progeny plant to a plant of  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety. This method may further comprise the step of obtaining a molecular marker profile of a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein and using the molecular marker profile to select for a progeny plant with the desired trait and the molecular marker profile of a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein. 
 C. Recurrent Selection and Mass Selection 
 Recurrent selection is a method used in a plant breeding program to improve a population of plants. A  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, may be suitable for use in a recurrent selection program. The method entails individual plants cross-pollinating with each other to form progeny. The progenies are grown and the superior progenies selected by any number of selection methods, which include individual plant, half-sib progeny, full-sib progeny, and selfed progeny. The selected progenies are cross-pollinated with each other to form progeny for another population. This population is planted and again superior plants are selected to cross-pollinate with each other. Recurrent selection is a cyclical process and therefore can be repeated as many times as desired. The objective of recurrent selection is to improve the traits of a population. The improved population can then be used as a source of breeding material to obtain new varieties for commercial or breeding use, including the production of a synthetic variety. A synthetic variety is the resultant progeny formed by the intercrossing of several selected varieties. 
 Mass selection is a useful technique when used in conjunction with molecular marker enhanced selection. In mass selection, seeds from individuals are selected based on phenotype or genotype. These selected seeds are then bulked and used to grow the next generation. Bulk selection may involve growing a population of plants in a bulk plot, allowing the plants to self-pollinate, harvesting the seed in bulk, and then using a sample of the seed harvested in bulk to plant the next generation. Also, instead of self-pollination, directed pollination could be used as part of the breeding program. 
 Mass and recurrent selections can be used to improve populations of either self- or cross-pollinating plants. A genetically variable population of heterozygous individuals is either identified, or created, by intercrossing several different parents. The best plants, or plants satisfying target criteria, may be selected based on individual superiority, outstanding progeny, or excellent combining ability. The selected plants are intercrossed to produce a new population in which further cycles of selection are continued. 
 D. Mutation Breeding 
 Mutation breeding is another method of introducing new traits into a  Hydrangea paniculata  according to one embodiment herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety. Mutations that occur spontaneously or are artificially induced can be useful sources of variability for a plant breeder. The goal of artificial mutagenesis is to increase the rate of mutation for a desired characteristic. Mutation rates can be increased by many different means including temperature, long-term seed storage, tissue culture conditions, radiation; such as X-rays, Gamma rays (e.g., cobalt 60 or cesium 137), neutrons, (product of nuclear fission by uranium 235 in an atomic reactor), Beta radiation (emitted from radioisotopes such as phosphorus 32 or carbon 14), or ultraviolet radiation (preferably from 2500 to 2900 nm), or chemical mutagens (such as base analogues (5-bromo-uracil)), related compounds (8-ethoxy caffeine), antibiotics (streptonigrin), alkylating agents (sulfur mustards, nitrogen mustards, epoxides, ethylenamines, sulfates, sulfonates, sulfones, lactones), azide, hydroxylamine, nitrous acid, or acridines. Once a desired trait is observed through mutagenesis the trait may then be incorporated into existing germplasm by traditional breeding techniques. Details of mutation breeding can be found in Vainstein, “Breeding for Ornamentals: Classical and Molecular Approaches,” Kluwer Academic Publishers (2002). In addition, mutations created in other  Hydrangea paniculata  plants may be used to produce a backcross conversion of a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, that comprises such mutation. 
 Additional methods include, but are not limited to, expression vectors introduced into plant tissues using a direct gene transfer method, such as microprojectile-mediated delivery, DNA injection, electroporation, and the like. More preferably, expression vectors are introduced into plant tissues by using either microprojectile-mediated delivery with a biolistic device or by using  Agrobacterium -mediated transformation. Transformant plants obtained with the protoplasm of the subject  Hydrangea paniculata  plants are intended to be within the scope of the embodiments of the application. 
 E. Single-Gene Conversions 
 When the term  Hydrangea paniculata  plant is used in the context of an embodiment of the present application, this also includes any single gene conversions of a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein. The term single gene converted plant as used herein refers to those  Hydrangea paniculata  plants which are developed by a plant breeding technique called backcrossing wherein all or nearly all of the target morphological and physiological characteristics of a variety are recovered in addition to the single gene transferred into the variety via the backcrossing technique. Backcrossing methods can be used with one embodiment of the present application to improve or introduce a characteristic into the variety. The term “backcrossing” as used herein refers to the repeated crossing of a hybrid progeny back to the recurrent parent, i.e., backcrossing 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or more times to the recurrent parent. The parental  Hydrangea paniculata  that contributes the gene for the target characteristic is termed the nonrecurrent or donor parent. This terminology refers to the fact that the nonrecurrent parent is used one time in the backcross protocol and therefore does not recur. The parental  Hydrangea paniculata  plant to which the gene or genes from the nonrecurrent parent are transferred is known as the recurrent parent as it is used for several rounds in the backcrossing protocol (Poehlman & Sleper (1994). In one backcross protocol, the original variety of interest (recurrent parent) is crossed to a second variety (nonrecurrent parent) that carries the single gene of interest to be transferred. The resulting progeny from this cross are then crossed again to the recurrent parent and the process is repeated until a  Hydrangea paniculata  plant is obtained wherein all or nearly all of the target morphological and physiological characteristics of the recurrent parent are recovered in the converted plant, in addition to the single transferred gene from the nonrecurrent parent. 
 The selection of a suitable recurrent parent according to target criteria may provide for a successful backcrossing procedure. The goal of a backcross protocol is to alter or substitute a single trait or characteristic in the original variety. To accomplish this, a single gene of the recurrent variety is modified or substituted with the desired gene from the nonrecurrent parent, while retaining all or nearly all of the rest of the target genetics, and therefore the target physiological and morphological constitution of the original variety. The choice of the particular nonrecurrent parent may depend on the purpose of the backcross; one of the major purposes is to add some commercial trait or traits of interest to the plant. The exact backcrossing protocol may depend on the characteristic or trait being altered to determine an appropriate testing protocol. Although backcrossing methods may be simplified when the characteristic being transferred is a dominant allele, a recessive allele may also be transferred. In this instance, the breeding process may involve introduction of a test of the progeny to determine if the target characteristic has been successfully transferred. 
 Many single gene traits have been identified that are not regularly selected in the development of a new variety but that can be improved by backcrossing techniques. 
 F. Introduction of a New Trait or Locus into the  Hydrangea paniculata  Described Herein 
   Hydrangea paniculata  described herein represent a new base of genetics into which a new locus or trait may be introgressed. Direct transformation and backcrossing represent two methods that can be used to accomplish such an introgression. The terms “backcross conversion” and “single locus conversion” are used interchangeably to designate the product of a backcrossing program. 
 G. Transformation 
 Transformation methods include, but are not limited to, expression vectors introduced into plant tissues using a gene transfer method, such as microprojectile-mediated delivery, DNA injection, electroporation, and the like. In some embodiments, expression vectors are introduced into plant tissues of a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety, by using either microprojectile-mediated delivery with a biolistic device or by using  Agrobacterium -mediated transformation. Accordingly, further embodiments are methods of transformation using a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein and the transformant plants obtained with the protoplasm of the subject  Hydrangea paniculata  plants. 
 1. Expression Vectors for ‘SMNHPH’ Transformation: Marker Genes 
 Plant transformation may involve the construction of an expression vector which will function in plant cells. Such expression vectors comprise DNA comprising a gene under control of, or operatively linked to, a regulatory element (e.g., a promoter). Expression vectors may include at least one genetic marker operably linked to a regulatory element that allows transformed cells containing the marker to be either recovered by negative selection (e.g., inhibiting growth of cells that do not contain the selectable marker gene) or by positive selection (e.g., screening for the product encoded by the genetic marker). Selectable marker genes used for plant transformation may include, for example, genes that code for enzymes that metabolically detoxify a selective chemical agent which may be an antibiotic or a herbicide, or genes that encode an altered target which is insensitive to the inhibitor. Positive selection methods may also be used. 
 One selectable marker gene used for plant transformation is the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) gene which, when under the control of plant regulatory signals, confers resistance to kanamycin. Another selectable marker gene used for plant transformation is the hygromycin phosphotransferase gene which confers resistance to the antibiotic hygromycin. 
 Selectable marker genes for plant transformation not of bacterial origin include, for example, mouse dihydrofolate reductase, plant 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase, and plant acetolactate synthase. See, e.g., Eichholtz, et al., SOMATIC CELL MOL. GENET., 13:67 (1987); Shah, et al., SCIENCE, 233:478 (1986); and Charest, et al., PLANT CELL REP., 8:643 (1990). 
 Another class of marker genes for plant transformation involves screening of presumptively transformed plant cells. Reporter genes are an example of this type of marker genes and can be used to quantify or visualize the spatial pattern of expression of a gene in specific tissues. Moreover, reporter genes can be fused to a gene or gene regulatory sequence for the investigation of gene expression. Marker genes used for screening presumptively transformed cells include β-glucuronidase (GUS), β-galactosidase, luciferase, and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase. See, e.g., Teeri, et al., EMBO J., 8:343 (1989); Koncz, et al., PROC. NATL. ACAD. SCI. USA, 84:131 (1987); and DeBlock, et al., EMBO J., 3:1681 (1984). 
 2. Expression Vectors for ‘SMNHPH’ Transformation: Promoters 
 Genes included in expression vectors must be driven by a nucleotide sequence comprising a regulatory element (e.g., a promoter). Many types of promoters may be used, as are other regulatory elements that can be used alone or in combination with promoters. 
 Some promoters are under developmental control and include promoters that preferentially initiate transcription in certain tissues, such as leaves, roots, seeds, fibers, xylem vessels, tracheids, or sclerenchyma. Such promoters may be referred to as “tissue-preferred” whereas promoters that initiate transcription only in a certain tissue may be referred to as “tissue-specific.” A “cell-type” specific promoter primarily drives expression in certain cell types in one or more organs, for example, vascular cells in roots or leaves. Whereas an “inducible” promoter may refers to a promoter which is under environmental control. Examples of environmental conditions that may affect transcription by inducible promoters include anaerobic conditions or the presence of light. Tissue-specific, tissue-preferred, cell-type specific, and inducible promoters constitute the class of “non-constitutive” promoters. A “constitutive” promoter refers to a promoter that is active under most environmental conditions. Many types of promoters may be used, such that it is to be understood the present disclosure is not limited to the promotors described and identified herein. 
 3. Additional Transformation Embodiments 
 The foregoing methods for transformation may be used for producing a transgenic variety. The transgenic variety could then be crossed with another (non-transformed or transformed) variety in order to produce a new transgenic variety. Alternatively, a genetic trait that has been engineered into a particular hydrangea line using the foregoing transformation techniques could be moved into another line using other breeding techniques. For example, a backcrossing approach could be used to move an engineered trait from a publically available variety into an elite variety, such as a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein (including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety), or a backcrossing approach can be used to move a foreign gene from a variety containing the foreign gene in its genome into a variety that does not contain that gene. 
 Likewise, by means of such embodiments, genes of commercial interest can be expressed in transformed plants. More particularly, plants can be genetically engineered to express various phenotypes of commercial interest, including, but not limited to, genes that confer resistance to pests or disease, genes that confer resistance to an herbicide, genes that confer or contribute to a value-added or desired trait, genes that control male sterility, genes that create a site-for-site specific DNA integration, and genes that affect abiotic stress resistance. Many different genes are known and could potentially be introduced into a  Hydrangea paniculata  according to one embodiment described in the present disclosure. Non-limiting examples of particular genes and corresponding phenotypes one may choose to introduce into a  hydrangea paniculata  plant include one or more genes for insect tolerance, such as a  Bacillus thuringiensis  (Bt.) gene, pest tolerance such as genes for fungal disease control, herbicide tolerance such as genes conferring glyphosate tolerance, and genes for quality improvements such as environmental or stress tolerances, or any desirable changes in plant physiology, growth, development, morphology, or plant product(s). For example, structural genes would include any gene that confers insect tolerance including but not limited to a  Bacillus  insect control protein gene as described in International Publication No. WO 99/31248, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,689,052, 5,500,365 and 5,880,275. In another embodiment, the structural gene can confer tolerance to the herbicide glyphosate as conferred by genes including, but not limited to  Agrobacterium  strain CP4 glyphosate resistant EPSPS gene (aroA:CP4) as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,633,435, or glyphosate oxidoreductase gene (GOX) as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,463,175. Alternatively, the DNA coding sequences can affect these phenotypes by encoding a non-translatable RNA molecule that causes the targeted inhibition of expression of an endogenous gene, for example via antisense- or cosuppression-mediated mechanisms. The RNA could also be a catalytic RNA molecule (e.g., a ribozyme) engineered to cleave a desired endogenous mRNA product. See, e.g., Gibson and Shillito,  MOL. BIOTECH.,  7:125, 1997. Thus, any gene which produces a protein or mRNA which is necessary for a phenotype or morphology change of interest is useful for the practice of one or more embodiments described in the present disclosure. 
 H. Backcross Conversions of  Hydrangea paniculata    
 A backcross conversion of the  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein occurs when DNA sequences are introduced through backcrossing (Allard, “Principles of Plant Breeding” (1999)) with the  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein being utilized as the recurrent parent. Both naturally occurring and transgenic DNA sequences may be introduced through backcrossing techniques. A backcross conversion may produce a plant with a trait or locus conversion in at least two or more backcrosses, including at least 2 crosses, at least 3 crosses, at least 4 crosses, at least crosses, and the like. Molecular marker assisted breeding or selection may be utilized to reduce the number of backcrosses necessary to achieve the backcross conversion. For example, see, Openshaw, S. J., et al., Marker-assisted Selection in Backcross Breeding, Proceedings Symposium of the Analysis of Molecular Data, Crop Science Society of America, Corvallis, Oreg. (August 1994), where it is demonstrated that a backcross conversion can be made in as few as two backcrosses. 
 The complexity of the backcross conversion method depends on the type of trait being transferred (single genes or closely linked genes as compared to unlinked genes), the level of expression of the trait, the type of inheritance (cytoplasmic or nuclear), and the types of parents included in the cross. It is to be understood that for single gene traits that are relatively easy to classify, the backcross method is effective and manageable. See, Allard, “Principles of Plant Breeding” (1999). Target traits that may be transferred through backcross conversion include, but are not limited to, sterility (nuclear and cytoplasmic), fertility restoration, drought tolerance, nitrogen utilization, ornamental features, disease resistance (bacterial, fungal, or viral), insect resistance, and herbicide resistance. In addition, an introgression site itself, such as an FRT site, Lox site, or other site specific integration site, may be inserted by backcrossing and utilized for direct insertion of one or more genes of interest into a specific plant variety. In some embodiments, the number of loci that may be backcrossed into a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein is at least 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5, and/or no more than 6, 5, 4, 3, or 2. A single locus may contain several transgenes, such as a transgene for disease resistance that, in the same expression vector, also contains a transgene for herbicide resistance. The gene for herbicide resistance may be used as a selectable marker and/or as a phenotypic trait. A single locus conversion of site specific integration system allows for the integration of multiple genes at the converted loci. 
 The backcross conversion may result from either the transfer of a dominant allele or a recessive allele. Selection of progeny containing the trait of interest is accomplished by direct selection for a trait associated with a dominant allele. Transgenes or genes transferred via backcrossing typically function as a dominant single gene trait and are relatively easy to classify. Selection of progeny for a trait that is transferred via a recessive allele requires growing and selfing the first backcross generation to determine which plants carry the recessive alleles. Recessive traits may involve additional progeny testing in successive backcross generations to determine the presence of the locus of interest. The last backcross generation may be selfed to give pure breeding progeny for the gene(s) being transferred, although a backcross conversion with a stably introgressed trait may also be maintained by further backcrossing to the recurrent parent with selection for the converted trait. 
 I. Molecular Techniques Using  Hydrangea paniculata  Described Herein 
 Molecular biological techniques may allow the isolation and characterization of genetic elements with specific functions. Molecular techniques include transformation. See Vainstein, “Breeding for Ornamentals: Classical and Molecular Approaches,” Kluwer Academic Publishers (2002). 
 1. Breeding with Molecular Markers 
 Molecular markers can also be used during the breeding process for the selection of qualitative traits. For example, markers closely linked to alleles or markers containing sequences within the actual alleles of interest can be used to select plants that contain the alleles of interest during a backcrossing breeding program. The markers can also be used to select for the genome of the recurrent parent and against the genome of the donor parent. Using this procedure can minimize or reduce the amount of genome from the donor parent that remains in the selected plants. It can also be used to reduce the number of crosses back to the recurrent parent needed in a backcrossing program. The use of molecular markers in the selection process is often called genetic marker enhanced selection. Molecular markers may also be used to identify and exclude certain sources of germplasm as parental varieties or ancestors of a plant by providing a means of tracking genetic profiles through crosses. Molecular markers, which includes markers identified through the use of techniques such as Isozyme Electrophoresis, Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLPs), Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs), Arbitrarily Primed Polymerase Chain Reaction (AP-PCR), DNA Amplification Fingerprinting (DAF), Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions (SCARs), Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs), Simple Sequence Repeats (SSRs), and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs), may be used in plant breeding methods in connection with a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety. See Vainstein, “Breeding for Ornamentals: Classical and Molecular Approaches,” Kluwer Academic Publishers (2002). 
 2. Genetic Marker Profile Through SSR and First Generation Progeny 
 In addition to phenotypic observations, a plant can also be identified by its genotype. The genotype of a plant can be characterized through a genetic marker profile which can identify plants of the same variety, or a related variety, or be used to determine or validate a pedigree. Genetic marker profiles can be obtained by techniques such as Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLPs), Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs), Arbitrarily Primed Polymerase Chain Reaction (AP-PCR), DNA Amplification Fingerprinting (DAF), Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions (SCARs), Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs), Simple Sequence Repeats (SSRs) (which are also referred to as Microsatellites), and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs). 
 3. Signal Sequences for Targeting Proteins to Subcellular Compartments 
 Transport of a protein produced by a transgene to a sub cellular compartment, such as the chloroplast, vacuole, peroxisome, glyoxysome, cell wall, or mitochondrion, or for secretion into the apoplast, may be accomplished by means of operably linking a nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence (targeting sequence) typically to the 5′ and/or 3′ region of the transgene encoding the protein of interest. Signal sequences are well-known in the art. See, e.g., Becker, et al., PLANT MOL. BIOL., 20:49 (1992); Knox, et al., PLANT MOL. BIOL., 9:3-17 (1987); Lerner, et al., PLANT PHYSIOL., 91:124-129 (1989); Frontes, et al., PLANT CELL, 3:483-496 (1991); Matsuoka, et al., PROC. NATL. ACAD. SCI., 88:834 (1991); Gould, et al., J. CELL. BIOL., 108:1657 (1989); Creissen, et al., PLANT J., 2:129 (1991); Kalderon, et al., CELL, 39:499-509 (1984); and Steifel, et al., PLANT CELL, 2:785-793 (1990). 
 4. Gene Silencing 
 Techniques for gene silencing may be utilized, including, but not limited to, knock-outs (such as by insertion of a transposable element such as Mu) or other genetic elements such as a FRT, Lox, or other site specific integration sites; antisense technology; co-suppression; RNA interference; virus-induced gene silencing; target-RNA-specific ribozymes; hairpin structures; MicroRNA; ribozymes; oligonucleotide mediated targeted modification; Zn-finger targeted molecules; CRISPR/Cas9 system; and other methods or combinations of the above. See, e.g., Sheehy, et al., PNAS USA, 85:8805-8809 (1988); U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,107,065; 5,453,566; 5,759,829; Jorgensen, TRENDS BIOTECH., 8(12):340-344 (1990); Flavell, PNAS USA, 91:3490-3496 (1994); Neuhuber, et al., MOL. GEN. GENET., 244:230-241 (1994); Napoli, et al., PLANT CELL, 2:279-289 (1990); U.S. Pat. No. 5,034,323; Sharp, GENES DEV., 13:139-141 (1999); Zamore, et al., CELL, 101:25-33 (2000); Montgomery, et al., PNAS USA, 95:15502-15507 (1998); Burton, et al., PLANT CELL, 12:691-705 (2000); Baulcombe, CURR. OP. PLANT BIO., 2:109-113 (1999); Haseloff, et al., NATURE, 334:585-591 (1988); Smith, et al., NATURE, 407:319-320 (2000); U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,423,885; 7,138,565; 6,753,139; 7,713,715; Aukerman & Sakai, PLANT CELL, 15:2730-2741 (2003); Steinecke, et al., EMBO J., 11:1525 (1992); Perriman, et al., ANTISENSE RES. DEV., 3:253 (1993); U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,528,700; 6,911,575; 7,151,201; 6,453,242; 6,785,613; 7,177,766; 7,788,044; International Publication No. WO2014/068346; Martinelli, et al.,  Proposal of a Genome Editing System for Genetic Resistance to Tomato Spotted Wilt Virus  2014 AMERICAN JOURNAL OF APPLIED SCIENCES; Noman, et al.,  CRISPR - Cas 9 : Tool for Qualitative and Quantitative Plant Genome Editing , November 2016 FRONTIERS IN PLANT SCIENCE Vol. 7; and Zhang et al.,  Exploiting the CRISPR/Cas 9  System for Targeted Genome Mutagenesis in Petunia  February 2016 SCIENCE REPORTS Volume 6. 
 J. Tissue Culture 
 Further reproduction of the variety can occur by tissue culture and regeneration. Tissue culture of various tissues of ornamental plants and a  Hydrangea paniculata  described herein and regeneration of plants therefrom may be utilized in breeding. For example, reproduction or breeding can be conducted according to one or more embodiments described in the following: Valla Rego, Luciana et al., Crop Breeding and Applied Technology. 1(3): 283-300 (2001); Komatsuda, T., et al., Crop Sci., 31:333-337 (1991); Stephens, P. A., et al.,  Theor. Appl. Genet.,  82:633-635 (1991); Komatsuda, T., et al.,  Plant Cell, Tissue and Organ Culture,  28:103-113 (1992); Dhir, S., et al.,  Plant Cell Reports,  11:285-289 (1992); Pandey, P., et al.,  Japan J. Breed.,  42:1-5 (1992); and Shetty, K., et al., Plant Science, 81:245-251(1992). Thus, another embodiment is to provide cells which upon growth and differentiation produce  Hydrangea paniculata  plants having one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of a  Hydrangea paniculata  described in the present application, including the ‘SMNHPH’ variety. 
 Regeneration refers to the development of a plant from tissue culture. The term “tissue culture” indicates a composition comprising isolated cells of the same or a different type or a collection of such cells organized into parts of a plant. Exemplary types of tissue cultures are protoplasts, calli, plant clumps, and plant cells that can generate tissue culture that are intact in plants or parts of plants, such as pollen, ovules, embryos, protoplasts, meristematic cells, callus, leaves, anthers, cotyledons, hypocotyl, pistils, roots, root tips, flowers, seeds, petiole, shoot, or stems, and the like. 
 K. Targeted Gene Editing 
 Targeted gene editing can be done using CRISPR/Cas9 technology (Saunders & Joung,  Nature Biotechnology,  32, 347-355, 2014). CRISPR is a type of genome editing system that stands for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. This system and CRISPR-associated (Cas) genes enable organisms, such as select bacteria and archaea, to respond to and eliminate invading genetic material. (Ishino, Y., et al.  J. Bacteriol.  169, 5429-5433 (1987)). These repeats were known as early as the 1980s in  E. coli , but Barrangou and colleagues demonstrated that  S. thermophilus  can acquire resistance against a bacteriophage by integrating a fragment of a genome of an infectious virus into its CRISPR locus. (Barrangou, R., et al.  Science  315, 1709-1712 (2007)). Many plants have already been modified using the CRISPR system. See for example, U.S. Application Publication No. WO2014068346 (Gyorgy et al., Identification of a  Xanthomonas euvesicatoria  resistance gene from pepper ( Capsicum annuum ) and method for generating plants with resistance), Martinelli, F. et al., “Proposal of a Genome Editing System for Genetic Resistance to Tomato Spotted Wilt Virus”  American Journal of Applied Sciences  2014, and Noman, A. et al., and “CRISPR-Cas9: Tool for Qualitative and Quantitative Plant Genome Editing”  Frontiers in Plant Science Vol.  7 Nov. 2016. 
 Gene editing can also be done using crRNA-guided surveillance systems for gene editing. Additional information about crRNA-guided surveillance complex systems for gene editing can be found in the following documents, which are incorporated by reference in their entirety: U.S. Application Publication No. 2010/0076057 (Sontheimer et al., Target DNA Interference with crRNA); U.S. Application Publication No. 2014/0179006 (Feng, CRISPR-CAS Component Systems, Methods, and Compositions for Sequence Manipulation); U.S. Application Publication No. 2014/0294773 (Brouns et al., Modified Cascade Ribonucleoproteins and Uses Thereof); Sorek et al.,  Annu. Rev. Biochem.  82:273-266, 2013; and Wang, S. et al.,  Plant Cell Rep  (2015) 34: 1473-1476. Therefore, it is another embodiment to use the CRISPR system on a  Hydrangea paniculata  of the instant application to, for example, modify traits and tolerances to pests and viruses. 
 Directional terms, such as “vertical,” “horizontal,” “top,” “bottom,” “upper,” “lower,” “inner,” “inwardly,” “outer” and “outwardly,” are used to assist in describing the invention based on the orientation of the embodiments shown in the illustrations. The use of directional terms should not be interpreted to limit the invention to any specific orientation(s). 
 The above description is that of current embodiments of the invention. Various alterations and changes can be made without departing from the spirit and broader aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims, which are to be interpreted in accordance with the principles of patent law including the doctrine of equivalents. This disclosure is presented for illustrative purposes and should not be interpreted as an exhaustive description of all embodiments of the invention or to limit the scope of the claims to the specific elements illustrated or described in connection with these embodiments. For example, and without limitation, any individual element(s) of the described invention may be replaced by alternative elements that provide substantially similar functionality or otherwise provide adequate operation. This includes, for example, presently known alternative elements, such as those that might be currently known to one skilled in the art, and alternative elements that may be developed in the future, such as those that one skilled in the art might, upon development, recognize as an alternative. Further, the disclosed embodiments include a plurality of features that are described in concert and that might cooperatively provide a collection of benefits. The present invention is not limited to only those embodiments that include all of these features or that provide all of the stated benefits, except to the extent otherwise expressly set forth in the issued claims. Any reference to claim elements in the singular, for example, using the articles “a,” “an,” “the” or “said,” is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular. 
 DEPOSIT INFORMATION 
 A deposit of  Hydrangea  variety ‘SMNHPH’ has been made with and accepted under the Budapest Treaty by the International Depository Authority of Provasoli-Guillard National Center for Marine Algae and Microbiota (NCMA) at Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Science (60 Bigelow Drive, East Boothbay, Me. 04544), on Mar. 14, 2023 under NCMA Accession number 202303015. The deposit will be maintained in the NCMA depository for a period of 30 years, or years after the most recent request, or for the enforceable life of the patent, whichever is longer, and will be replaced if necessary, during that period. Upon issuance, all restrictions on the availability to the public of the deposit will be irrevocably removed consistent with all of the requirement of 37 C.F.R. §§ 1.801-1.809. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
