
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FIELD OF INVENTION  
   
    
    [0001]
      The present invention relates to bacterial gene expression and metabolic engineering. More specifically, this invention relates to a method for the stable expression of introduced genes in the hsdM chromosomal region of a methylotrophic microorganism.  
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION  
   
    
    [0002]
      There are a number of microorganisms that utilize single carbon substrates as their sole source of carbon and energy. Such microorganisms are referred to herein as “C 1  metabolizers”. All C 1  metabolizing microorganisms are generally classified as methylotrophs. Methylotrophs may be defined as any organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds, such as methane and/or methanol. Methanotrophic bacteria are a class of methylotrophic bacteria defined by their ability to use methane as their sole source of carbon and energy under ambient conditions. This ability, in conjunction with the abundance of methane, makes the biotransformation of methane a potentially unique and valuable process.  
     
    
    [0003]
      Odom et al. have investigated  Methylomonas  sp. 16a as a microbial platform of choice for production of a variety of materials including carbohydrates, pigments, terpenoid compounds and aromatic compounds (U.S. Pat. No. 6,537,786, U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601, U.S. Pat. No. 6,660,507, U.S. Pat. No. 6,818,424, and U.S. Ser. No. 09/941,947). This particular methanotrophic bacterial strain is capable of efficiently using methanol and/or methane as a carbon substrate, is metabolically versatile in that it contains multiple pathways for the incorporation of carbon from formaldehyde into 3-carbon units, and is amenable to genetic engineering via bacterial conjugation using donor species such as  Escherichia coli  (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,308 and U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844). Thus,  Methylomonas  sp. 16a can be engineered to produce new classes of products other than those naturally produced from methane.  
     
    
    [0004]
      Microbial production of industrial compounds requires the ability to efficiently engineer changes to the genome of an organism. Engineering changes such as adding, removing, or modifying genetic elements has often proven to be challenging and time consuming exercises. One such modification is genetically engineering modulations to the expression of relevant genes in a metabolic pathway.  
     
    
    [0005]
      There are a variety of ways to modulate gene expression. Microbial metabolic engineering frequently involves the use of multi-copy vectors to express a gene of interest under the control of a constitutive or conditional promoter. Plasmid-based expression systems facilitate the ability to express multiple copies of the same gene within the transformed host cell. However, maintenance of the plasmid within the host normally requires selective pressure. This is typically accomplished by using a plasmid expressing an antibiotic resistance marker. Nutritional selection markers may also be used, but these generally decrease the growth rate of the host cell.  
     
    
    [0006]
      Commercial fermentative production is best achieved when no selective pressure is required to maintain the presence of the introduced gene(s). The presence of an antibiotic resistance gene is undesirable in terms of both cost and required regulatory approvals. Thus, there is a need to express and maintain the introduced gene(s) in the recombinant host cell without the use of antibiotic resistance. Additionally, the metabolic burden of maintaining a vector normally decreases the overall growth rate of the host cell. As such, the use of vector-based expression systems has characteristics that are undesirable for certain commercial production applications. Chromosomal expression can be used to circumvent the detrimental growth effects associated with vector burden and the need for selective pressure. Suitable integration sites need to be identified that facilitate stable expression of the introduced DNA at levels adequate for industrial production of the desired end product. The insertion of foreign DNA into the chosen integration site must not be detrimental to the host cell's survival, genetic stability, and/or growth rate. Accordingly, there is a need to identify suitable integration sites within the host cell's genome.  
     
    
    [0007]
      A previous method to identify suitable chromosomal integration sites within a C 1 -metabolizing host cell ( Methylomonas  sp. 16a) has been described, resulting in the identification of the tig region (Miller, E. and Ye, R., U.S. Ser. No. 11/070,080; hereby incorporated by reference). However, microbial metabolic pathway engineering typically requires a plurality of genetic modifications to optimally produce the desired product at commercially useful levels. Hence, the identification of additional integration sites suitable for expressing introduced genes at levels sufficient to produce the desired product are needed.  
     
    
    [0008]
      The problem to be solved, therefore, is to identify suitable chromosomal integration sites within a methylotrophic bacteria for recombinant gene expression that exhibit significant transcriptional activity and/or genetic stability. Insertion of DNA within the selected region should not result in significant adverse effects to the host cell's survival or growth rate.  
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION  
   
    
    [0009]
      The stated problem has been solved by identifying the hsdM chromosomal region in a methylotrophic bacterial host cell as an optimal site for the expression of foreign genes and gene clusters. Transformed host cells comprising an insertion in the hsdM region exhibited high level expression of a promoterless reporter construct (carotenoid biosynthesis gene cluster) when operably linked to the endogenous hsdM promoter. In addition, recombinant host cells comprising the chromosomally-integrated DNA stably expressed the introduced genes over several generations. No significant detrimental effects on viability or growth rate were observed.  
     
    
    [0010]
      Accordingly, a method for stably expressing a nucleic acid molecule in a methylotrophic microorganism is provided comprising: 
            a) providing a methylotrophic microorganism having a hsdM genomic region; wherein said hsdM genomic region encodes a type I restriction-modification system M subunit protein;     b) providing at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule to be stably expressed;     c) integrating the at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule of (b) into said hsdM genomic region of said methylotrophic microorganism whereby a transformed methylotrophic microorganism is created; and     d) growing the transformed methylotrophic microorganism of c) under suitable conditions whereby said at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule is stably expressed.        
   
    
    [0015]
      The reporter gene used to identify suitable integration sites was a promoterless carotenoid gene cluster encoding enzymes responsible for astaxanthin or canthaxanthin biosynthesis. Operably linking the promoterless construct to the hsdM promoter resulted in the production of the carotenoid pigment. In another aspect, a method for the production of a carotenoid compound in a methylotrophic host cell is provided comprising: 
            a) providing a methylotrophic microorganism comprising at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule encoding at least one carotenoid biosynthetic pathway enzyme chromosomally integrated into an hsdM region;     b) contacting the methylotrophic microorganism of (a) with a carbon substrate selected from the group consisting of methane and methanol under conditions whereby said at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule is expressed and at least one carotenoid compound is produced; and     c) optionally isolating the carotenoid compound of step b).        
   
    
    [0019]
      The promoterless carotenoid biosynthesis gene cluster chromosomally integrated and operably linked to the hsdM promoter was highly expressed, resulting in the production of the carotenoid compound at levels similar to those observed in multicopy plasmid-based expression systems. In another aspect, an isolated nucleic acid fragment encoding the hsdM promoter is provided as represented by SEQ ID NO: 34.  
     
    
    [0020]
      In a further aspect, a method for stably expressing a chimeric gene in a recombinant methylotrophic bacteria is provided comprising; 
            a) providing a recombinant methylotrophic bacteria comprising a chimeric gene, said chimeric gene comprising an hsdM promoter as represented by SEQ ID NO: 34 operably linked to a coding region of interest expressible in a methylotrophic bacteria; and     b) growing said recombinant methylotrophic bacteria under suitable growth conditions whereby said coding region of interest is stably expressed.        
   
    
    [0023]
      Although the present invention is exemplified by the integration and expression of carotenoid biosynthesis genes, the skilled artisan will recognize that the hsdM region will be useful for the insertion of other foreign genes.  
     
    
    [0024]
      In another aspect, the invention provides a methylotrophic microorganism comprising at least one nucleic acid molecule integrated in the hsdM genomic region.  
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES, SEQUENCE DESCRIPTIONS, AND BIOLOGICAL DEPOSITS  
   
    
    [0025]
       FIG. 1  shows the upper carotenoid and lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathways.  
     
    
    [0026]
       FIG. 2  shows a plasmid map of the pUTmTn5 vector comprising a multiple cloning site (MCS).  
     
    
    [0027]
       FIG. 3  shows a plasmid map of the pUTmTn5Cm vector.  
     
    
    [0028]
       FIG. 4  shows the design of the promoterless transposon construct used to identify suitable integration sites with the methylotrophic host cell genome.  
     
    
    [0029]
       FIG. 5  shows the gene structure of the hsdM region of the  Methylomonas  genome and the integration site identified by screening. 
     
    
    [0030]
      The invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description and the accompanying sequence descriptions, which form a part of this application.  
     
    
    [0031]
      The following sequences conform with 37 C.F.R. 1.821-1.825 (“Requirements for Patent Applications Containing Nucleotide Sequences and/or Amino Acid Sequence Disclosures—the Sequence Rules”) and are consistent with World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Standard ST.25 (1998) and the sequence listing requirements of the European Patent Convention (EPC) and PCT (Rules 5.2 and 49.5(a-bis), and Section 208 and Annex C of the Administrative Instructions). The symbols and format used for nucleotide and amino acid sequence data comply with the rules set forth in 37 C.F.R. §1.822. 
            SEQ ID NO:1 is the nucleotide sequence of carotenoid biosynthesis plasmid pDCQ334.     SEQ ID NO:2 is the nucleotide sequence of carotenoid biosynthesis plasmid pDCQ341.     SEQ ID NO:3 is the nucleotide sequence of carotenoid biosynthesis plasmid pDCQ343.     SEQ ID NO:4 is the nucleotide sequence of carotenoid biosynthesis plasmid pDCQ377.     SEQ ID NO: 5 is the nucleotide sequence of the carotenoid gene cluster crtWZEidiYIB in plasmid pDCQ334.     SEQ ID NO: 6 is the nucleotide sequence of the crtWEYIB gene cluster in plasmid pDCQ341.     SEQ ID NO: 7 is the nucleotide sequence of the crtWZEYIB gene cluster in plasmid pDCQ343.     SEQ ID NO: 8 is the nucleotide sequence of the crtWZEidiYIB gene cluster in plasmid pDCQ377.     SEQ ID NO: 9 is the nucleotide sequence of the primer MCS.F.     SEQ ID NO: 10 is the nucleotide sequence of the primer MCS.R.     SEQ ID NO: 11 is the nucleotide sequence of the primer pUTmTn5/Seq.F.     SEQ ID NO:12 is the nucleotide sequence of the primer pUTmTn5/Seq.R.     SEQ ID NO: 13 is the nucleotide sequence of the primer KnavrllKpnIBstBI.R2.     SEQ ID NO: 14 is the nucleotide sequence of the primer KnBstBI.F.     SEQ ID NO: 15 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 crtW ketolase coding region in pDCQ343.     SEQ ID NO: 16 is the nucleotide sequence of the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 crtZ hydroxylase coding region in pDCQ343.     SEQ ID NO: 17 is the nucleotide sequence of primer p343crtZSpel.F.     SEQ ID NO: 18 is the nucleotide sequence of primer p343crtWSpel.R     SEQ ID NO: 19 is the nucleotide sequence of primer CmAvrllKpnIBstBl.R.     SEQ ID NO: 20 is the nucleotide sequence of primer CmBstBl.F.     SEQ ID NO: 21 is the nucleotide sequence of primer crtE343R.     SEQ ID NO: 22 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-334KnPCR.F.     SEQ ID NO: 23 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-334KnPCR.R.     SEQ ID NO: 24 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-334KnSeq.F.     SEQ ID NO: 25 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-334KnSeq. R.     SEQ ID NO: 26 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-343CmPCR. F.     SEQ ID NO: 27 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-343CmSeq.F.     SEQ ID NO: 28 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-343CmPCR.R.     SEQ ID NO: 29 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-343CmSeq.R.     SEQ ID NO: 30 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-377KnPCR.F.     SEQ ID NO: 31 is the nucleotide sequence of primer pUTmTn5-377KnSeq.F.     SEQ ID NO: 32 is the nucleotide sequence of the chloramphenicol resistance gene amplified from pUTmTn5Cm.     SEQ ID NO: 33 is the nucleotide sequence of the hsdM region identified in  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402). The hsdM region in  Methylomonas  sp. 16a is comprised of 4 open reading frames identified as: putative transcriptional regulator (orfX), hsdM, hsdS, and hsdR ( FIG. 5 ).     SEQ ID NO: 34 is the nucleotide sequence of the hsdM promoter.     SEQ ID NO: 35 is the nucleotide sequence of the orfx open reading frame found within the hsdM region.     SEQ ID NO: 36 is the deduced amino acid sequence of encoded by the orfx open reading frame.     SEQ ID NO: 37 is the nucleotide sequence of the hsdM open reading frame.     SEQ ID NO: 38 is the deduced amino acid sequence of encoded by the hsdM open reading frame.     SEQ ID NO: 39 is the nucleotide sequence of the hsdS open reading frame.     SEQ ID NO: 40 is the deduced amino acid sequence of encoded by the hsdM open reading frame.     SEQ ID NO: 41 is the nucleotide sequence of the hsdR open reading frame.     SEQ ID NO: 42 is the deduced amino acid sequence of encoded by the hsdR open reading frame.     SEQ ID NO: 43 is the 16s rRNA gene sequence from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof such as  Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200 (ATCC PTA-6887).        
   
    
    [0075]
      The following biological deposits were made under the terms of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure:  
                               International           Depositor Identification   Depository       Reference   Designation   Date of Deposit                   Methylomonas  16a   ATCC PTA-2402   Aug. 22 2000         Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200   ATCC PTA-6887   Jul. 22, 2005                 
 
     
    
    [0076]
      As used herein, “ATCC” refers to the American Type Culture Collection International Depository Authority located at ATCC, 10801 University Blvd., Manassas, Va. 20110-2209, USA. The “International Depository Designation” is the accession number to the culture on deposit with ATCC.  
     
    
    [0077]
      The listed deposit will be maintained in the indicated international depository for at least thirty (30) years and will be made available to the public upon the grant of a patent disclosing it. The availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by government action.  
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION  
   
    
    [0078]
      The present invention relates to the finding that the hsdM region of the genome of a methylotrophic microorganism is a suitable location for the integration and expression of foreign genes. In particular, it has been discovered that a gene cluster encoding the enzymes of the lower carotenoid pathway, when inserted into this region, stably produced high levels of C 40  carotenoids (e.g. astaxanthin).  
     
    
    [0079]
      In one aspect, the hsdM region is used for stable expression of one or more foreign genes. In another aspect, the hsdM region is used for the stable expression of at least one carotenoid biosynthesis gene in methylotrophic bacteria. In a further aspect, the methylotrophic bacteria is a methanotroph. In yet another aspect, the methylotrophic bacteria is a high growth methanotrophic bacteria. In still yet a further aspect, the methylotrophic bacteria is the methanotrophic bacteria  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof.  
     
    
    [0080]
      In yet a further aspect, a nucleic acid sequence encoding the hsdM promoter (SEQ ID NO: 34) is provided. In yet another aspect, a method for recombinantly expressing a chimeric gene comprised of the hsdM promoter is also provided.  
      Definitions  
     
    
    [0081]
      In this disclosure, a number of terms and abbreviations are used. The following definitions are provided:  
     
    
    [0082]
      As used herein, the term “open reading frame” is abbreviated ORF.  
     
    
    [0083]
      “Polymerase chain reaction” is abbreviated PCR.  
     
    
    [0084]
      “High Performance Liquid Chromatography” is abbreviated HPLC.  
     
    
    [0085]
      As used herein, “kanamycin” is abbreviated Kan.  
     
    
    [0086]
      As used herein, “ampicillin” is abbreviated Amp.  
     
    
    [0087]
      As used herein, the term “methylotroph” means a microorganism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. Methylotrophs having the ability to oxidize methane (CH 4 ) are further characterized as methanotrophs. In one embodiment, the methylotroph utilizes methanol and/or methane as a primary carbon source.  
     
    
    [0088]
      As used herein, the term “methanotroph” or “methanotrophic bacteria” means a prokaryote capable of utilizing methane as its primary source of carbon and energy. Complete oxidation of methane to carbon dioxide occurs by aerobic degradation pathways. Typical examples of methanotrophs useful in the present invention include (but are not limited to) the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus , and  Methylosinus . In one embodiment, the methanotrophic bacteria is a high growth methanotrophic bacteria comprising a functional Embden-Meyerhof carbon flux pathway (U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601). In another embodiment, the high growth methanotrophic bacteria is  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and mutant derivatives thereof. In one aspect, the term “mutant derivatives” or “derivatives of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a” refers to  Methylomonas  strains developed from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402). In a further aspect, the mutant derivatives of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a are comprised of the 16s rRNA gene sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 43 (U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601; hereby incorporated by reference) In yet another embodiment, the methanotroph utilizes methanol and/or methane as a primary carbon source.  
     
    
    [0089]
      As used herein, the term “pigmentless” or “white mutant” refers to a  Methylomonas  sp. 16a bacterium wherein the native pink pigment (e.g., a C 30  carotenoid) is not produced (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844, hereby incorporated by reference). Expression of several genes involved in C 30  carotenoid production were disrupted (i.e. crtN1, ald, crtN2), thereby creating a pigmentless mutant (e.g.  Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200). Thus, the bacterial cells appear white in color, as opposed to pink.  
     
    
    [0090]
      As used herein, the term “MWM1200 (Δcrt cluster promoter+ΔcftN3 )” or “MWM1200” refers to a mutant of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) in which the endogenous C 30  carotenoid gene cluster promoter and the crtN3 gene have been disrupted. Disruption of the native C 30  carotenoid biosynthetic pathway resulted in a suitable background (pigmentless) for engineering C 40  carotenoid production (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844; hereby incorporated by reference).  
     
    
    [0091]
      As used herein, the term “hsdM region” refers to the region of chromosomal DNA containing coding regions that are all expressed from the hsdM promoter. The hsdM region includes the coding region for the type I restriction-modification system M subunit protein, as well as any other adjacent coding regions that are transcribed from the hsdM region promoter. The  Methylomonas  sp. 16a hsdM region is comprised of at least 4 open reading frames operably linked to the hsdM promoter including orfx (putative transcriptional regulator), hsdM, hsdS, and hsdR ( FIG. 5 ). In one aspect, the hsdM region is comprised of 4 coding sequences having the following organization: orfX-hsdM-hsdS-hsdR. Foreign genes and/or nucleic acid molecules comprised of one or more coding sequences can be inserted and stably expressed anywhere within the hsdM region. In one aspect, the insertion site is located within the hsdM chromosomal region represented by SEQ ID NO: 33. In another aspect, the insertion site is selected from the group consisting of coding sequence for orfx (SEQ ID NO: 35), hsdM (SEQ ID NO: 37), hsdS (SEQ ID NO: 39), and hsdR (SEQ ID NO: 41). In yet another aspect, the insertion site is within orfx (SEQ ID NO: 35).  
     
    
    [0092]
      As used herein, the term “hsdM promoter” refers to the DNA sequence that directs transcription of the open reading frames found within the hsdM region ( FIG. 5 ). The hsdM promoter is represented by SEQ ID NO: 34.  
     
    
    [0093]
      As used herein, the term “orfx gene” refers to a gene encoding a protein (SEQ ID NO: 36) identified as a putative transcriptional regulator located with the hsdM region. The coding sequence for the orfX gene is represented by SEQ ID NO: 35.  
     
    
    [0094]
      As used herein, the term “hsdM gene” refers to a gene encoding a type-I restriction/modification system M subunit protein (SEQ ID NO: 38). The coding sequence for the hsdM gene is represented by SEQ ID NO: 37.  
     
    
    [0095]
      As used herein, the term “hsdS gene” refers to a gene encoding a type-I restriction/modification system S subunit protein (SEQ ID NO: 40). The coding sequence for the hsdS gene is represented by SEQ ID NO: 39.  
     
    
    [0096]
      As used herein, the term “hsdR gene” refers to a gene encoding a type-I restriction/modification system R subunit protein (SEQ ID NO: 42). The coding sequence for the hsdR gene is represented by SEQ ID NO: 41.  
     
    
    [0097]
      As used herein, the term “isoprenoid compound” refers to compounds formally derived from isoprene (2-methylbuta-1,3-diene; CH 2 ═C(CH 3 )CH═CH 2 ), the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule. These compounds are produced biosynthetically via the isoprenoid pathway beginning with isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) and formed by the head-to-tail condensation of isoprene units, leading to molecules which may be, for example, of 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, or 40 carbons in length.  
     
    
    [0098]
      As used herein, the term “carotenoid biosynthetic pathway” or refers to those genes comprising members of the upper carotenoid pathway and/or lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, as illustrated in  FIG. 1 .  
     
    
    [0099]
      As used herein, the terms “upper carotenoid pathway” and “upper pathway” are used interchangeably and refer to enzymes involved in converting pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP). Genes encoding these enzymes include, but are not limited to: the “dxs” gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate synthase); the “dxr” gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase); the “ispD” gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D-erythritol cytidyltransferase enzyme; also known as ygbP); the “ispE” gene (encoding 4-diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methylerythritol kinase; also known as ychB); the “ispF” gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase; also known as ygbB); the “pyrG” gene (encoding a CTP synthase); the “lytB” gene involved in the formation of dimethylallyl diphosphate; the “gcpe” gene involved in the synthesis of 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate; the “idi” gene (responsible for the intramolecular conversion of IPP to dimethylallyl pyrophosphate); and the “ispA” gene (encoding geranyltransferase or farnesyl diphosphate synthase) in the isoprenoid.  
     
    
    [0100]
      As used herein, the terms “lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway” and “lower pathway” will be used interchangeably and refer to those enzymes which convert FPP to a suite of carotenoids. These include those genes and gene products that are involved in the immediate synthesis of either diapophytoene (whose synthesis represents the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 30  carotenoids) or phytoene (whose synthesis represents the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 40  carotenoids). All subsequent reactions leading to the production of various C 30 -C 40  carotenoids are included within the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. These genes and gene products comprise all of the “crt” genes including, but not limited to: crtM, crtN1, crtN2, crtE, crtX, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtW, crtR, crtL, crtO, crtA, crtC, crtD, crtF, and crtU. Finally, the term “lower carotenoid biosynthetic enzyme” is an inclusive term referring to any and all of the enzymes in the present lower pathway including, but not limited to: CrtM, CrtN, CrtN2, CrtE, CrtX, CrtY, CrtI, CrtB, CrtZ, CrtW, CrtR, CrtL, CrtO, CrtA, CrtC, CrtD, CrtF, and CrtU.  
     
    
    [0101]
      As used herein, the term “carotenoid” refers to a class of hydrocarbons having a conjugated polyene carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene. This class of molecules is composed of C 30  diapocarotenoids and C 40  carotenoids and their oxygenated derivatives; and, these molecules typically have strong light absorbing properties. The oxygenated derivatives are commonly referred to as “xanthophylls”.  
     
    
    [0102]
      As used herein, the term “tetraterpenes” or “C 40  carotenoids” refers to carotenoid compounds consisting of eight isoprenoid units joined in such a manner that the arrangement of isoprenoid units is reversed at the center of the molecule so that the two central methyl groups are in a 1,6-positional relationship and the remaining non-terminal methyl groups are in a 1,5-positional relationship. All C 40  carotenoids may be formally derived from the acyclic C 40 H 56  structure. Non-limiting examples of C 40  carotenoids include: phytoene, lycopene, β-carotene, zeaxanthin, astaxanthin, and canthaxanthin.  
     
    
    [0103]
      As used herein, the term “CrtE” refers to a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme encoded by the crtE gene and which converts trans-trans-farnesyl diphosphate and isopentenyl diphosphate to pyrophosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate.  
     
    
    [0104]
      As used herein, the term “Idi” refers to an isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase enzyme (E.C. 5.3.3.2) encoded by the idi gene.  
     
    
    [0105]
      As used herein, the term “CrtY” refers to a lycopene cyclase enzyme encoded by the crtY gene which converts lycopene to β-carotene.  
     
    
    [0106]
      As used herein, the term “CrtI” refers to a phytoene desaturase enzyme encoded by the ctdl gene. CrtI converts phytoene into lycopene via the intermediaries of phytofluene, ζ-carotene and neurosporene by the introduction of 4 double bonds.  
     
    
    [0107]
      As used herein, the term “CrtB” refers to a phytoene synthase enzyme encoded by the crB gene which catalyzes the reaction from prephytoene diphosphate to phytoene.  
     
    
    [0108]
      As used herein, the term “CrtZ” refers to a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme (e.g. β-carotene hydroxylase) encoded by the crtZ gene which catalyzes a hydroxylation reaction. The oxidation reaction adds a hydroxyl group to cyclic carotenoids having a β-ionone type ring. This reaction converts cyclic carotenoids, such as β-carotene or canthaxanthin, into the hydroxylated carotenoids zeaxanthin or astaxanthin, respectively. Intermediates in the process typically include β-cryptoxanthin and adonirubin. It is known that CrtZ hydroxylases typically exhibit substrate flexibility, enabling production of a variety of hydroxylated carotenoids depending upon the available substrates.  
     
    
    [0109]
      As used herein, the term “CrtW” refers to a carotenoid ketolase enzyme encoded by the crtW gene that catalyzes an oxidation reaction where a keto group is introduced on the β-ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids. The term “carotenoid ketolase” or “ketolase” refers to the group of enzymes that can add keto groups to the ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids.  
     
    
    [0110]
      As used herein, the term “CrtX” refers to a zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase enzyme encoded by the crtX gene and which converts zeaxanthin to zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside.  
     
    
    [0111]
      As used herein, the term “crt gene cluster” refers to a tandemly-arrayed group of genes that encode proteins involved in carotenoid biosynthesis. All of the genes in a gene cluster are transcribed from the same promoter.  
     
    
    [0112]
      As used herein, the term “C 1  carbon substrate” refers to any carbon-containing molecule that lacks a carbon-carbon bond. Non-limiting examples are methane, methanol, formaldehyde, formic acid, formate, methylated amines (e.g., mono-, di-, and tri-methyl amine), methylated thiols, and carbon dioxide. In a preferred embodiment, the preferred C 1  carbon substrate is methanol and/or methane.  
     
    
    [0113]
      As used herein, the term “C 1  metabolizer” refers to a microorganism that has the ability to use a single carbon substrate as its sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizers will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs.  
     
    
    [0114]
      As used herein, the term “C 1  metabolizing bacteria” or “C 1  metabolizing microorganism” refers to bacteria that have the ability to use a single carbon substrate as their sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizing bacteria, a subset of C 1  metabolizers, will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs.  
     
    
    [0115]
      As used herein, the term “chromosomal integration” means that a DNA segment introduced into the cell becomes congruent with the chromosome of a microorganism through recombination between homologous DNA regions on the introduced DNA segment and within the chromosome. In another aspect, DNA can be chromosomally integrated using random transposition. As described herein, transposition was used to identify suitable chromosomal integration sites within the methylotrophic bacteria's genome. Once identified and sequenced, one of skill in the ask can designed DNA molecules for targeted chromosomal integration using homologous recombination.  
     
    
    [0116]
      As used herein, the term “operably inserted” means that the gene or genes that are integrated into a chromosomal region are organized in a manner in which the encoded proteins are expressed from those genes, and the proteins are functional. In general, operable insertion requires that the integrated gene be in the same orientation as any other genes in the same operon. As used herein, the term “operably linked” refers to the association of nucleic acid sequences on a single nucleic acid fragment so that the function of one is affected by the other. For example, a promoter is operably linked with a coding sequence when it is capable of affecting the expression of that coding sequence (i.e., that the coding sequence is under the transcriptional control of the promoter). Coding sequences can be operably linked to regulatory sequences in sense or antisense orientation.  
     
    
    [0117]
      As used herein, the term “marker” means a gene that confers a phenotypic trait that is easily detectable through screening or selection. A marker used in screening is, for example, one whose conferred trait can be visualized. Genes involved in carotenoid production or that encode proteins (i.e. beta-galactosidase, beta-glucuronidase) that convert a colorless compound into a colored compound are examples of this type of marker. A screening marker gene may also be referred to as a reporter gene. A selectable marker is one wherein cells having the marker gene can be distinguished based on growth. For example, an antibiotic resistance marker serves as a useful selectable marker, since it enables detection of cells which are resistant to the antibiotic, when cells are grown on media containing that particular antibiotic.  
     
    
    [0118]
      A “nucleic acid” is a polymeric compound comprised of covalently linked subunits called nucleotides. Nucleic acids include polyribonucleic acid (RNA) and polydeoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), both of which may be single-stranded or double-stranded. DNA includes cDNA, genomic DNA, synthetic DNA, and semi-synthetic DNA.  
     
    
    [0119]
      As used herein, an “isolated nucleic acid molecule” or “fragment” is a polymer of RNA or DNA that is single- or double-stranded, optionally containing synthetic, non-natural or altered nucleotide bases. An isolated nucleic acid molecule in the form of a polymer of DNA may be comprised of one or more segments of cDNA, genomic DNA or synthetic DNA.  
     
    
    [0120]
      A nucleic acid fragment is “hybridizable” to another nucleic acid fragment, such as a cDNA, genomic DNA, or RNA, when a single stranded form of the nucleic acid fragment can anneal to the other nucleic acid fragment under the appropriate conditions of temperature and solution ionic strength. Hybridization and washing conditions are well known and exemplified in Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T.  Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,  2 nd  ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor (1989), particularly Chapter 11 and Table 11.1.  
     
    
    [0121]
      As used herein, the term “gene” refers to a nucleic acid fragment that expresses a specific protein. As defined herein, it may or may not include regulatory sequences preceding (5′ non-coding sequences) and following (3′ non-coding sequences) the coding sequence. “Native gene” refers to a gene as found in nature with its own regulatory sequences. “Chimeric gene” refers to any gene that is not a native gene, comprising regulatory and coding sequences that are not found together in nature. Accordingly, a chimeric gene may comprise regulatory sequences and coding sequences that are derived from different sources, or regulatory sequences and coding sequences derived from the same source, but arranged in a manner different than that found in nature. “Endogenous gene” refers to a native gene in its natural location in the genome of an organism. A “foreign” gene refers to a gene not normally found in the host organism, but that is introduced into the host organism by gene transfer. Foreign genes can comprise native genes inserted into a non-native organism, or chimeric genes. A “transgene” is a gene that has been introduced into the genome by a transformation procedure.  
     
    
    [0122]
      As used herein, a gene that is “expressible” is one that produces a functional protein product.  
     
    
    [0123]
      As used herein, “synthetic genes” can be assembled from oligonucleotide building blocks that are chemically synthesized using procedures known to those skilled in the art. These building blocks are ligated and annealed to form gene segments that are then enzymatically assembled to construct the entire gene. Accordingly, the genes can be tailored for optimal gene expression based on optimization of nucleotide sequence to reflect the codon bias of the host cell. The skilled artisan appreciates the likelihood of successful gene expression if codon usage is biased towards those codons favored by the host. Determination of preferred codons can be based on a survey of genes derived from the host cell where sequence information is available.  
     
    
    [0124]
      As used herein, the term “homolog” or “homologue”, as applied to a gene, means any gene derived from the same or a different microbe having the same or similar function. In one embodiment, the homologous gene has nucleotide sequence similarity and function.  
     
    
    [0125]
      As used herein, the term “coding sequence” or “coding region of interest” refers to a DNA sequence that encodes a specific amino acid sequence. The present examples illustrate the use of a promoterless gene cluster comprised of several coding regions whose expression is controlled by chromosomally integrating the cluster near an endogenous promoter. In this way, the promoterless gene cluster is operably linked to the endogenous promoter. n  
     
    
    [0126]
      As used herein, the term “codon optimized” as it refers to genes or coding regions of nucleic acid molecules for transformation of various hosts, refers to the alteration of codons in the gene or coding regions of the nucleic acid molecules to reflect the typical codon usage of the host organism without altering the polypeptide for which the DNA codes. Within the context of the present examples, several genes and DNA coding regions were codon optimized for optimal expression in  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (i.e. crtWZ coding regions in pDCQ334). As used herein, the term “suitable regulatory sequences” refers to nucleotide sequences located upstream (5′ non-coding sequences), within, or downstream (3′ non-coding sequences) of a coding sequence, and which influence the transcription, RNA processing or stability, or translation of the associated coding sequence. Regulatory sequences may include promoters, translation leader sequences, RNA processing sites, effector binding sites and stem-loop structures. In one aspect, a suitable regulatory sequence is the hsdM promoter.  
     
    
    [0127]
      “Promoter” refers to a DNA sequence capable of controlling the expression of a coding sequence or functional RNA. In general, a coding sequence is located 3′ to a promoter sequence. Promoters may be derived in their entirety from a native gene, or be composed of different elements derived from different promoters found in nature, or even comprise synthetic DNA segments. It is understood by those skilled in the art that different promoters may direct the expression of a gene at different stages of development, or in response to different environmental or physiological conditions. Promoters that cause a gene to be expressed in most cells at most times are commonly referred to as “constitutive promoters”. It is further recognized that since in most cases the exact boundaries of regulatory sequences have not been completely defined, DNA fragments of different lengths may have identical promoter activity. As described herein, the hsdM promoter is a region of DNA capable of controlling expression of the genes within the hsdM region. In one aspect, the cytCP promoter is a nucleic acid sequence having at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO: 34. In a further aspect, the hsdM promoter is a nucleic acid sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 34.  
     
    
    [0128]
      The “3′ non-coding sequences” refer to DNA sequences located downstream of a coding sequence encoding regulatory signals capable of affecting mRNA processing or gene expression.  
     
    
    [0129]
      As used herein, the term “transformation” refers to the transfer of a nucleic acid fragment into the genome of a host organism, resulting in genetically stable inheritance. Host organisms containing the transformed nucleic acid fragments are referred to as “transgenic” or “recombinant” or “transformed” organisms.  
     
    
    [0130]
      As used herein, the term “conjugation” refers to a particular type of transformation in which a unidirectional transfer of DNA (e.g., from a bacterial plasmid) occurs from one bacterium cell (i.e., the “donor”) to another (i.e., the “recipient”). The process involves direct cell-to-cell contact.  
     
    
    [0131]
      The terms “plasmid” and “vector” refer to an extra chromosomal element often carrying genes that are not part of the central metabolism of the cell, and usually in the form of circular double-stranded DNA fragments. Such elements may be autonomously replicating sequences, genome integrating sequences, phage or nucleotide sequences, linear or circular, of a single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA, derived from any source, in which a number of nucleotide sequences have been joined or recombined into a unique construction which is capable of introducing a gene or genes into a cell. “Transformation vector” refers to a specific plasmid containing a foreign gene and having elements (in addition to the foreign gene) that facilitate transformation of a particular host cell.  
     
    
    [0132]
      As used herein, the term “sequence analysis software” refers to any computer algorithm or software program that is useful for the analysis of nucleotide or amino acid sequences. “Sequence analysis software” may be commercially available or independently developed. Typical sequence analysis software will include, but is not limited to: the GCG suite of programs (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, Wis.); BLASTP, BLASTN, BLASTX (Altschul et al.,  J. Mol. Biol.  215:403-410 (1990)); DNASTAR (DNASTAR, Inc., Madison, Wis.); and the FASTA program incorporating the Smith-Waterman algorithm (W. R. Pearson,  Comput. Methods Genome Res ., [Proc. Int. Symp.], Meeting Date 1992, 111-20. Suhai, Sandor, Ed.; Plenum: New York, N.Y. (1994)). Within the context of this application it will be understood that where sequence analysis software is used for analysis, the results of the analysis are based on the “default values” of the program referenced, unless otherwise specified. As used herein “default values” will mean any set of values or parameters set by the manufacturer which originally load with the software when first initialized.  
     
    
    [0133]
      The invention relates to the integration of expressible nucleic acids of interest into the hsdM chromosomal region of a methylotrophic microorganism. Preferred expressible nucleic acid molecules are those that comprise the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. Integration of these genes at this specific point in the methylotrophic host genome results in stable expression of the integrated genes and robust carotenoid production.  
      Methylotrophic C1-Metabolizing Microorganism Host Cells  
     
    
    [0134]
      All C 1 -metabolizing microorganisms are generally classified as methylotrophs. Methylotrophs may be defined as any organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. However, facultative methylotrophs, obligate methylotrophs, and obligate methanotrophs are all various subsets of methylotrophs. Specifically: 
            Facultative methylotrophs have the ability to oxidize organic compounds which do not contain carbon-carbon bonds, but may also use other carbon substrates such as sugars and complex carbohydrates for energy and biomass;     Obligate methylotrophs are those organisms which are limited to the use of organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds for the generation of energy; and     Obligate methanotrophs are those obligate methylotrophs that have the distinct ability to oxidize methane. 
 
 Facultative methylotrophic bacteria are found in many environments, but are isolated most commonly from soil, landfill and waste treatment sites. Many facultative methylotrophs are members of the β, and γ subgroups of the Proteobacteria (Hanson et al.,  Microb. Growth C 1  Compounds ., [Int. Symp.], 7th (1993), 285-302. Editor(s): Murrell, J. Collin; Kelly, Don P. Publisher: Intercept, Andover, UK; Madigan et al.,  Brock Biology of Microorganisms,  8th edition, Prentice Hall, UpperSaddle River, N.J. (1997)). Facultative methylotrophic bacteria suitable in the present invention include, but are not limited to:  Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas , and  Pseudomonas.  
       
   
    
    [0138]
      Those methylotrophs having the additional ability to utilize methane as a primary carbon source are referred to as methanotrophs. Of particular interest in the present invention are those obligate methanotrophs which are methane utilizers but which are obliged to use organic compounds lacking carbon-carbon bonds. Exemplary organisms included in this classification of obligate methanotrophs that utilize C 1  compounds are the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium , and  Methanomonas , although this is not intended to be limiting.  
     
    
    [0139]
      Of particular interest in the present invention are high growth obligate methanotrophs having an energetically favorable carbon flux pathway. For example, a specific strain of methanotroph having several pathway features that makes it particularly useful for carbon flux manipulation is known as  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA 2402) (U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601). This particular strain and other related methylotrophs including for example,  Methylomonas clara  and  Methylosinus sporium , are preferred microbial hosts for expression of numerous gene products. These strains have both the expected Entner-Douderoff Pathway (which utilizes the keto-deoxy phosphogluconate aldolase enzyme) and in addition, the Embden-Meyerhof Pathway (which utilizes the fructose bisphosphate aldolase enzyme). Energetically, the latter pathway is most favorable and allows greater yield of biologically useful energy, ultimately resulting in greater yield production of cell mass and other cell mass-dependent products.  
     
    
    [0140]
       Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) is normally pink in color due to production of C 30  carotenoids. For visual screening of C 40  carotenoid production, C 30  carotenoid production was eliminated in the strain to provide a non-pigmented background. The process used to create the non-pigmented strain used in the present examples (e.g.,  Methylomonas  sp. 16a MWM1200) is described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/997,844; hereby incorporated by reference. Briefly, several genes involved in the production of C 30  carotenoids (i.e. crtN1, ald, crtN2, and crtN3) were disrupted, resulting in a non-pigmented strain of  Methylomonas  optimized for engineering C 40  carotenoid production.  
     
    
    [0141]
      In one embodiment, suitable host cells are methylotrophic bacteria. In another embodiment, the methylotroph is a methanotroph. In yet another embodiment, the methanotroph is a high growth methanotroph. In a further embodiment, the high growth methanotroph is  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof.  
     
    
    [0142]
      In one embodiment, the C 1  carbon source is any organic molecule lacking a carbon to carbon bond. In another embodiment, the C 1  carbon source is methanol and/or methane. In yet another embodiment, the host cell is a methylotroph grown using methanol and/or methane as a carbon source. In yet a further embodiment, the methylotrophic host cell is a methanotroph grown using methanol and/or methane as a carbon source.  
      Integration Stability  
     
    
    [0143]
      For commercial production economics, it is desirable to use a genetically stable microbial host. Stability of the introduced genes should be maintained over multiple generations. Chromosomal integration in the hsdM region provides this level of stability. Chromosomal insertion provides the most segregationally stable expression system for foreign DNA since the foreign DNA is passed on to progeny as a part of normal chromosomal replication and since, theoretically, the foreign DNA can only be lost as a result of a recombination event.  
     
    
    [0144]
      As used herein, the term “stably expressed” or “stable expression” refers to an integration event that results in the expression of the integrated nucleic acid molecule for at least about 10 generations in the transformed host cells. In one aspect, stability is measured over at least 10 generations and is observed in at least about 90% of the transformed host comprising a chromosomal integration in the hsdM region.  
      In vivo Transposition for the Integration of Promoterless Reporter Transposons  
     
    
    [0145]
      The in vivo transposition vector pUTminiTn5gfpTet (GenBank® AY364166) provided plasmid and transposon functions used to construct a promoterless transposon vector (Matthysse et al.,  FEMS Microbiol. Lett.  145:87-94 (1996); de Lorenzo et al.,  J. Bacteriol.,  172(11):6568-6572 (1990); Herrero et al.,  J. Bacteriol.  172(11):6557-6567 (1990)). The pUTminiTn5gfpTet plasmid is comprised of the IS50r transposase gene (a modified wild type tnp tranposase with the Notl site removed; Auerswald et al.,  Cold Spring Harb. Symp. Quant. Biol.  4 (part 1):107-113 (1981); Ahmed et al.,  Gene  154(1):129-130 (1995)), an R6K origin of replication, an OriT(RP4) origin of transfer (GenBank® X54459), a gfp gene encoding a mutant green fluorescent protein, a bla gene encoding a beta-lactamase, and a tetA gene encoding a class C tetracycline resistance protein.  
     
    
    [0146]
      The parent plasmid, pUT, is a derivative of the pGP704 plasmid (de Lorenzo et al., supra; Miller and Mekalanos,  J. Bacteriol., ( 170): 2575-2583 (1988) and was used to create pUTminiTn5gfpTet. Plasmid pGP704 is a derivative of pBR322 that is Amp R  but has a deletion of the pBR322 origin of replication (oriE1). Instead, the plasmid contains a cloned fragment containing the origin of replication of plasmid R6K. The R6K origin of replication (oriR6K) requires the Π protein, encoded by the pir gene. In  E. coli , the Π protein can be supplied in trans by a prophage (λ pir) that carries a cloned copy of the pir gene. The pGP704 plasmid also contains a 1.9 kB BamHI fragment encoding the mob region of RP4. Thus, pGP704 (and the present pUT derivatives thereof) can be mobilized into recipient strains by transfer functions provided by a derivative of RP4 integrated in the chromosome of  E. coli  strain SM10 or SY327. Once the plasmid is transferred, however, it is unable to replicate in recipients that lack the Π protein (e.g., recipients such as  Methylomonas  and other methylotrophic bacteria). Use of the pGP704 plasmid, and derivatives thereof, for genetically engineering  Methylomonas  sp. has been previously described in U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,308 and U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844; hereby incorporated by reference.  
     
    
    [0147]
      A modified version of the pUTminiTn5gfpTet plasmid was created by removing the gfp and tet genes, leaving intact the plasmid functions, the gene encoding the tranposase, and the ends of the Tn5 transposon (inverted repeats, typically about 19 base pairs in length, referred to at “IE” and “IO” ends;  FIG. 2 ). A multiple cloning site (MCS) was subsequently added, creating plasmid pUTmTn5. Various promoterless constructs (carotenoid biosynthesis gene clusters) were cloned into the MCS to create the promoterless astaxanthin transposons used to identify suitable chromosomal integration sites.  
     
    
    [0148]
      The mobilization of the pUTmTn5 plasmids into  Methylomonas  occurs through conjugation. Once in the host cell, the tranposase inserts the astaxanthin transposon (or canthaxanthin transposon) randomly throughout the entire genome. Insertion of the promoterless carotenoid producing transposon (canthaxanthin or astaxanthin) in regions that are actively transcribed are easily identified by the generation of pigment as an endogenous chromosomal promoter drives expression of the promoterless DNA insert encoding several carotenoid biosynthesis enzymes (the non-pigmented strain  Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200 was used as the background). Survival and growth of the pigmented cells indicated that the insertion regions did not encode genes essential for survival (assuming a single copy of each). Stability of the chromosomal insertion sites was determined by growing the pigmented cells for several generations, measuring the frequency of those cells that loose the ability to produce the reporter molecule. In one embodiment, stable chromosomal integration sites are those that are able to maintain the transposon (as visually indicated by the presence of pigmentation) in the vast majority (i.e. at least 90%) of the transformed host cells over at least about 10 generations. In another embodiment, the “vast major” is at least about 98% of the transformed host cell. In yet another embodiment, insertion sites are considered stable if the vast majority of the cells retain their pigmentation over at least about 15 generations. In a further embodiment, insertion sites are considered stable if the vast majority of the cells retain their pigmentation over at least about 50 generations.  
     
    
    [0149]
      Use of the mini-Tn5 transposase system is exemplified. However, the use of other transposable elements in combination with a transposase for both in vivo and in vitro transposition are known in the art. Kits for in vitro transposition are commercially available (see for example The Primer Island Transposition Kit, available from Perkin Elmer Applied Biosystems, Branchburg, N.J., based upon the yeast Ty1 element; The Genome Priming System, available from New England Biolabs, Beverly, Mass.; based upon the bacterial transposon Tn7; and the EZ::TN Transposon Insertion Systems, available from Epicentre Technologies, Madison, Wis., based upon the Tn5 bacterial transposable element.  
      Composition of the hsdM Region  
     
    
    [0150]
      Type I restriction-modification systems are commonly found in a wide variety of prokaryotes. Restriction-modification (R-M) systems protect a bacterial cell against invasion of foreign DNA by endonucleolytic cleavage of DNA that lacks a site specific modification. The host genome is protected from cleavage by methylation of specific nucleotides in the target sites. In type I systems, both restriction and modification activities are present in one heteromeric enzyme complex composed of one DNA specificity subunit (S subunit), two modification subunits (M subunits) and two restriction (R) subunits (R subunits). Type I restriction-modification enzymes are encoded by three closely-linked genes (hsdM, hsdS, and hsdR) encoding their respective subunits (Murray, N.,  Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev.,  64(2):1092-2172 (2000)).  
     
    
    [0151]
      High-level astaxanthin production was observed when a promoterless astaxanthin biosynthesis gene cluster was integrated into a particular genomic region of a methylotrophic bacterial cell ( Methylomonas  sp.). Sequencing of this region (hsdM region; SEQ ID NO: 33) revealed an operon comprised of four open reading frames (ORFS) transcribed from a single promoter. BLASTX analysis was performed using the sequence of each ORF (Table 4).  
     
    
    [0152]
      Three of the ORFs were identified as encoding the three subunits (HsdM, HsdS, and HsdR) of the type I restriction/modification system. The amino acid sequence of each respective subunit is generally well conserved, making it possible to identify homologous hsdM regions in other prokaryotes based on sequence identity/similarity using one or more of the coding regions within the hsdMSR cluster.  
     
    
    [0153]
      The function of the ORFs identified initially by sequence analysis is further supported by the fact that these ORFs are closely linked to one another, a characteristic typical for genes encoding the subunits of a type I restriction/modification system (Murray, N., supra;  FIG. 5 ). All three R-M subunit genes are operably linked to a single upstream promoter (referred to as the “hsdM promoter”; SEQ ID NO: 34).  
     
    
    [0154]
      Another open reading frame (orfX; SEQ ID NO: 35) upstream hsdMSR gene cluster was also sequenced. The function of the protein encoded by orfx was identified as a putative transcriptional regulator, having significant similarity to a protein from Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 (45% similar; E-value=6e− 47 ; Table 4). Several of the transposon insertions within this ORF produced strains exhibiting high levels of carotenoid production (Table 5), indicating that the promoter controlling expression of the genes within the operon was strong. Insertion of the promoterless carotenoid transposon construct (typically greater than 5 kB in size) in orfx (upstream of the hsdMSR coding regions) indicated that the entire hsdM region is a suitable for integrating foreign genes. An insertion within this region produced a genetically stable strain that retained the ability to produce carotenoid pigment over several generations (Table 6).  
     
    
    [0155]
      A gene integrated within the hsdM region and operably linked to the hsdM promoter will be transcribed along with the other genes in the cluster. Thus, for expression, an integrated gene must be 3′ to the promoter for the hsdM region. All of the coding regions in the hsdM region gene cluster are oriented with the same 5′ to 3′ polarity. An introduced gene must be integrated such that the orientation of the coding region is the same as the orientation of the other coding regions in the hsdM region gene cluster.  
     
    
    [0156]
      A gene may be integrated in the hsdM region in any location that facilitates expression and does not compromise the host strain. Integration of foreign DNA within an ORF in the hsdM region does not adversely affect the viability and growth rate of the transformed host cell. However, in another aspect, it may be desirable to integrate a gene into an intergenic region in the hsdM region to avoid disruption of the expression of any encoded proteins and to ensure function of the expressed introduced gene product. Knowledge of the integration region sequence allows one of skill to target the integration of a foreign DNA fragment using methods well-known in the art (see for example, use of an integration vector and homologous recombination as described in U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,308 and U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844; hereby incorporated by reference).  
      Strategy for Identification of High Expression Integration Regions  
     
    
    [0157]
      Transposons comprised of a promoterless carotenoid gene cluster were randomly introduced at a number of sites in the host genome and screened for the production of a carotenoid pigment (e.g. canthaxanthin or astaxanthin). It will be appreciated that the same process could be accomplished using more standard markers such as β-galactosidase, β-glucuronidase, or other genes that express an enzyme that can metabolize a colorless substrate. In the context of the present invention, the carotenoid produced was astaxanthin or canthaxanthin; providing a strong visual marker indicative of expression. In addition, the size of the insert was more than 5 kB, indicating that the insertion site can support a stable expression of a relatively large gene cluster.  
     
    
    [0158]
      In another aspect of the invention, the integration site identified using the present method can be used to incorporate one or more genes lacking a promoter. In this way, the endogenous promoter controlling expression of the identified region is used to drive expression of the foreign DNA inserted. In another embodiment, DNA constructs comprised of at least one promoter operably linked to one or more coding sequences can be inserted into the identified integration regions. In this way, insertion of a construct comprised of a foreign promoter takes advantage of the stable, non-essential nature of the integration region (i.e. disruption of the expression of the endogenous genes within the region is not significantly detrimental to the survival and/or growth rate of the host cell).  
     
    
    [0159]
      In yet a further embodiment, the endogenous hsdM promoter (SEQ ID NO: 34) can be isolated and used to drive chimeric gene expression at additional integration sites within the host genome.  
     
    
    [0160]
      The genomic DNA from the pigmented transformed cells can then be characterized to identify the integration site of the reporter gene(s) through sequencing the DNA surrounding the integrated reporter gene(s). Primers can be designed based on the sequence of the promoterless transposon constructs so that the chromosomal regions flanking the insertion site can be sequenced. Further analysis of the surrounding DNA sequences using sequence analysis software such as the GCG suite of programs ((Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, Wis.); BLASTP, BLASTN, BLASTX (Altschul et al.,  J. Mol. Biol.,  215:403-410 (1990)); DNASTAR (DNASTAR, Inc., Madison, Wis.); and the FASTA program incorporating the Smith-Waterman algorithm (W. R. Pearson,  Comput. Methods Genome Res ., [Proc. Int. Symp.], Meeting Date 1992, 111-20. Suhai, Sandor, Ed.; Plenum: New York, N.Y. (1994)) locates ORFs (including orientation) and determines the identities of those ORFs through DNA or protein homology to known sequences. A map of ORFs and putative promoter regions may be constructed based on the results of the sequence analysis. The map allows the determination of how the integrated gene is being expressed: what promoter is used, and whether it is part of an operon.  
      Suitable Integration Sites within the hsdM Region  
     
    
    [0161]
      Foreign DNA (e.g. genes) can be stably inserted and expressed anywhere with the hsdM region including open reading frames and the corresponding intergenic regions flanking the ORFS. In one aspect, the integration site can be anywhere within the region operably linked and expressed under the control of the endogenous hsdM promoter. In another aspect, a suitable integration site within the hsdM region of a methylotrophic microorganism has at least 95% identity to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 33, 35, 37, 39, and 41. In yet another aspect, the integration site has at least 95% identity to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 36, 38, 40, and 42. In a further aspect, the integration site within the hsdM region is a nucleic acid sequence encoding an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 36, 38, 40, and 42. In yet a further aspect, the integration site within the hsdM region comprises a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 33, 35, 37, 39, and 41.  
     
    
    [0162]
      The hsdM region within a methylotroph comprises at least one open reading frame encoding a type I restriction/modification subunit M protein. In another aspect, the hsdM region is comprised of 4 ORFS having the following organization: orfX-hsdM-hsdS-hsdR. In yet another aspect, the hsdM region refers to the region of chromosomal DNA comprising of one or more open reading frames that are expressed from a nucleic acid molecule encoding the hsdM promoter having at least 95% identity to the SEQ ID NO: 34. In yet another aspect, the cysH promoter is represented by SEQ ID NO: 34.  
      Targeted Integration of Suitable Integration Sites  
     
    
    [0163]
      Once the location and sequence of a suitable integration region is identified by the screening methods described herein, an integration vector may be used for targeted integration of a gene(s) into the targeted region, providing that the vector contains a DNA sequence that is homologous to a portion of the genomic target region. Regions of homology are designed using the sequence of the desired insertion site and may be as short as about 0.5 kB in length, is preferably of at least about 1 kB in length and more preferred is at least about 1 to 2.4 kB in length.  
      Homologs of the hsdM Region in Methylotrophic Microorganisms  
     
    
    [0164]
      One or more of the present sequences can be used to identify substantially similar hsdM regions in other methylotrophic microorganisms. The skilled artisan recognizes that substantially similar nucleotide sequences encompassed by this invention are also defined by their ability to hybridize, particularly under highly stringent conditions, with the sequences exemplified herein.  
     
    
    [0165]
      Typically, stringent conditions are those in which the salt concentration is less than about 1.5 M Na ion (typically about 0.01 to 1.0 M Na ion concentration or other salts) at pH 7.0 to 8.3 and the temperature is at least about 30° C. for short probes (e.g., 10 to 50 nucleotides) and at least about 60° C. for long probes (e.g., greater than 50 nucleotides). Stringent conditions may also be achieved by adding destabilizing agents such as formamide. Exemplary stringency conditions include hybridization with a buffer solution of 6×SSC (1 M NaCl), 30 to 35% formamide, 1% SDS (sodium dodecyl sulphate) at 37° C., and a wash in 1× to 2×SSC (20×SSC=3.0 M NaCl/0.3 M trisodium citrate) at 50 to 55° C. Exemplary moderate stringency conditions include hybridization in 6×SSC (1 M NaCl), 40 to 45% formamide, 1% SDS at 37° C., and a wash in 0.5× to 1×SSC at 55 to 60° C. Exemplary high stringency conditions include hybridization in 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, at 65° C. and a wash with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS at a temperature of 65° C.). Hybridization and washing conditions are well known and exemplified in Sambrook, et al., supra; particularly Chapter 11 and Table 11.1.).  
     
    
    [0166]
      An hsdM region (or any ORF within the region) may also be identified through sequence analysis of genomic DNA sequences using sequence analysis software, or may be cloned using a probe made from the Methylomonas sp. hsdM region, preferably from the hsdM, hsdS, or hsdR coding sequence. In one embodiment, substantially similar chromosomal regions are defined by the ability to hybridize under highly stringent conditions to at least one of the open reading frames identified within the hsdM region. In another embodiment, substantially similar nucleic acid fragments of the instant invention are those nucleic acid fragments whose DNA sequences are at least about 80% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid fragments reported herein. In yet another embodiment, substantially similar nucleic acid fragments are at least about 90% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid fragments reported herein. In a further embodiment, substantially similar nucleic acid fragments are at least about 95% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid fragments reported herein. In still a further embodiment, substantially similar nucleic acid fragments are at least about 98% identical to the DNA sequence of the nucleic acid fragments reported herein.  
      Genes for Integration in the hsdM Region  
     
    
    [0167]
      Metabolic engineering generally requires the introduction of one ore more genes whose expression leads to altered metabolism. It is usually desired that the introduced genes exhibit high level expression. In cases where a product is to be produced through large scale growth in a bioreactor, the lack of a selection marker, stability of the introduced gene, and normal growth rate of the host microorganism are also important. Thus for many metabolic engineering projects, integration in the hsdM region may provide the desired properties. Any gene that is useful for metabolic engineering may be integrated in the hsdM region. Additionally, genes encoding commercially valuable proteins may be expressed in the hsdM region integration system. The genes for integration may be either endogenous to the host or heterologous and must be compatible with the host organism. For example, suitable genes of interest may include, but are not limited to those encoding viral, bacterial, fungal, plant, insect, or vertebrate proteins of interest, including mammalian polypeptides. Furthermore, the genes of interest may be structural proteins, enzymes, or peptides. As will be obvious to one skilled in the art, the particular functionalities required to be introduced into a host organism for production of a particular product will depend on the host cell, the availability of substrate, and the desired end product(s).  
     
    
    [0168]
      In one aspect, a “coding region of interest” is defined herein as a nucleic acid molecule that includes, but is not limited to those encoding viral, bacterial, fungal, plant, insect or vertebrate proteins of interest, including mammalian polypeptides. In another aspect, the coding region of interest encodes enzymes involved in isoprenoid biosynthesis, carotenoid biosynthesis, central carbon metabolism, exopolysaccharide production, and aromatic amino acid production. In a further aspect, the coding region of interest is a cluster of one or more coding regions that can be expressed together when operably linked to a suitable promoter. In a preferred aspect, the coding region of interest is one that, when operably linked to a suitable promoter, can be functionally expressed as a chimeric gene in a transformed host cell.  
     
    
    [0169]
      A particularly preferred, but non-limiting list of genes include: 
            1) genes encoding enzymes involved in the central carbon pathway, such as transaldolase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, keto deoxy phosphogluconate aldolase, phosphoglucomutase, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, phosphofructokinase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydratase, and 6-phosphogluconate-6-phosphate-1 dehydrogenase;     2) genes encoding enzymes involved in the production of isoprenoid molecules, such as 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate synthase (dxs), 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase (dxr), geranyltransferase or farnesyl diphosphate synthase (ispA), 2C-methyl-D-erythritol cytidyltransferase (ispD), to 4-diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methylerythritol kinase (ispE), 2C-methyl-d-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase (ispF), 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate synthase (ispG); CTP synthase (pyrG)), and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase (idi);     3) genes encoding carotenoid pathway enzymes such as geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase (crtE); zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase (crtX), lycopene cyclase (crtY), phytoene desaturase (crtI), phytoene synthase (crtB), carotenoid hydroxylase (crtZ), and carotenoid ketolase (crtO, crtW and bkt);     4) genes encoding enzymes involved in the production of exopolysaccharides, such as UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ugp), glycosyltransferase (gumD), polysaccharide export proteins (wza, espB), polysaccharide biosynthesis (espM), glycosyltransferase (waaE), sugar transferase (espV), galactosyltransferase (gumH), and glycosyltransferase genes;     5) genes encoding enzymes involved in the production of aromatic amino acids, such as 3-deoxy-D-arabinoheptulosonate-7-phosphate synthase (aroG), 3-dehydroquinate synthase (aroB), 3-dehydroquinase or 3 dehydroquinate dehydratase (aroQ), 5-shikimic acid dehydrogenase (aroE), shikimic acid kinase (aroK), 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase, chorismate synthase (aroC), anthranilate synthase (trpE), anthranilate phosphoribosyltransferase (trpD), indole 3-glycerol phosphate synthase (trpC), tryptophan synthetase (trpB), chorismate mutase or prephenate dehydratase (pheA), and prephenate dehydrogenase (tyrAc); and     6) pds, phac, phaE, efe, pdc, and adh genes and genes encoding pinene synthase, bornyl synthase, phellandrene synthase, cineole synthase, sabinene synthase, and taxadiene synthase, respectively.        
   
    
    [0176]
      The preferred genes of 3) above include, but are not limited to crtE, crtB, crtI, crtY, crtZ, crtW and crtX genes isolated from  Pectobacterium cypripedii  DC416, as described in U.S. Ser. No. 10/804,677; crtE, crtB, crtI, crtY, crtZ and crtX genes isolated from a member of the  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 family, as described in U.S. Ser. No. 10/808.979; crtE, idi, crtB, crtI, crtY, crtZ genes isolated from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404, as described in U.S. Ser. No. 10/808,807; crtE, idi, crtB, crtI, crtY, crtZ and crtX genes isolated from  Pantoea stewartii  DC413, as described in U.S. Ser. No. 10/810,733; the crtW and crtZ genes from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum , as described in U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844, the crtW and crtZ genes from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 as described in U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433, and the crtw gene from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 or  Flavobacterium  sp. K1-202C, as described in U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433.  
     
    
    [0177]
      For coding regions with codon usage that is not optimal for expression in the host bacterium, it is desirable to modify a portion of the codons to enhance the expression the encoded polypeptides in a methylotroph, or specifically in  Methylomonas  sp. 16a and derivatives thereof. For example, the nucleic acid sequence of the native β-carotene ketolase gene (crtW) from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  was modified to employ host preferred codons for expression in  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844). In general, host preferred codons can be determined from the codons of highest frequency in the proteins (preferably expressed in the largest amount) in a particular host species of interest. Thus, the coding sequence for a polypeptide having ketolase activity can be synthesized in whole or in part using the codons preferred in the host species. All (or portions) of the DNA also can be synthesized to remove any destabilizing sequences or regions of secondary structure which would be present in the transcribed mRNA. All (or portions) of the DNA also can be synthesized to alter the base composition to one more preferable in the desired host cell.  
     
    
    [0178]
      As is well known to those of skill in the art, efforts to genetically engineer a microorganism for high-level production of a specific product frequently require high-level expression of one or more introduced genes. For large-scale production, the introduced gene(s) must be stably maintained, preferably without the requirement for an antibiotic or nutritional selection.  
     
    
    [0179]
      In one aspect, the hsdM region is used for expression of genes encoding enzymes involved in carotenoid synthesis in an any methylotrophic microorganism. In another aspect, the methylotrophic microorganism is a methylotrophic bacteria, providing a new platform for production of carotenoids. In another aspect, the hsdM region is used for expression of genes for C 40  carotenoid synthesis in  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (and in derivatives thereof) providing a platform for production of C 40  carotenoids including, but are not limited to antheraxanthin, adonirubin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, capsorubrin, β-cryptoxanthin, α-carotene, β-carotene, epsilon-carotene, echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3′-hydroxyechinenone, γ-carotene, 4-keto-γ-carotene, ζ-carotene, α-cryptoxanthin, deoxyflexixanthin, diatoxanthin, 7,8-didehydroastaxanthin, fucoxanthin, fucoxanthinol, isorenieratene, lactucaxanthin, lutein, lycopene, myxobactone, neoxanthin, neurosporene, hydroxyneurosporene, peridinin, phytoene, rhodopin, rhodopin glucoside, 4-keto-rubixanthin, siphonaxanthin, spheroidene, spheroidenone, spirilloxanthin, 4-keto-torulene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-torulene, uriolide, uriolide acetate, violaxanthin, zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside, and zeaxanthin. Preferred carotenoids produced by the present methods include β-carotene, lycopene, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and astaxanthin. In a further preferred aspect, the carotenoids are canthaxanthin and/or astaxanthin.  
      Carotenoid Biosynthesis Genes  
     
    
    [0180]
      There is a general practical utility for microbial production of C 40  carotenoid compounds. These compounds are very difficult to make chemically (Nelis and Leenheer,  Appl. Bacteriol.  70:181-191 (1991)). Industrially, only a few carotenoids are used for food colors, animal feeds, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics, despite the existence of more than 600 different carotenoids identified in nature. Most carotenoids have strong color and can be viewed as natural pigments or colorants. Furthermore, many carotenoids have potent antioxidant properties and thus inclusion of these compounds in the diet is thought to provide health benefits. Carotenoids produced in a microbial host may be used as a part of the single cell protein product, or may be purified prior to use.  
     
    
    [0181]
      The synthesis of carotenoids occurs through the upper carotenoid pathway providing for the conversion of pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway that provides for the synthesis of either diapophytoene (C 30 ) or phytoene (C 40 ) and all subsequently produced carotenoids. The genetics of carotenoid biosynthesis are well-known (Armstrong, G., in  Comprehensive Natural Products Chemistry , Elsevier Press, volume 2, pp 321-352 (1999)); Lee, P. and Schmidt-Dannert, C.,  Appl Microbiol Biotechnol,  60:1-11 (2002); Lee et al.,  Chem Biol  10:453-462 (2003), and Fraser, P. and Bramley, P. ( Progress in Lipid Research,  43:228-265 (2004)). This pathway is extremely well studied in the Gram-negative, pigmented bacteria of the genera  Pantoea , formerly known as  Erwinia . Of particular interest are the genes responsible for the production of C 40  carotenoids used as pigments in animal feed (e.g. canthaxanthin and astaxanthin).  
     
    
    [0182]
      For the biosynthesis of C 40  carotenoids, a series of enzymatic reactions catalyzed by CrtE and CrtB occur to convert FPP to geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) to phytoene, the first 40-carbon molecule of the lower carotenoid biosynthesis pathway. From the compound phytoene, a spectrum of C 40  carotenoids are produced by subsequent hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, cyclization, oxidation, or any combination of these processes. Lycopene, which imparts a “red”-colored spectra, is produced from phytoene through four sequential dehydrogenation reactions by the removal of eight atoms of hydrogen, catalyzed by phytoene desaturase (encoded by the gene crtl). Lycopene cyclase (encoded by the gene crtY) converts lycopene to β-carotene. β-carotene can be converted to astaxanthin by the combination of at least one β-carotene ketolase (encoded by a crtwlbkt or crtO gene) and at least one carotenoid hydroxylase (encoded by a crtZ or crtR gene). Thus, the set of genes crtE, crtB, crtI, crtY, crtW, and crtZ together encode a biosynthetic pathway for the conversion of FPP to astaxanthin. These genes can be linked together with all coding regions in the same orientation such that expression of one DNA fragment provides for the synthesis of astaxanthin from FPP.  
      Industrial Production Methodologies  
     
    
    [0183]
      Where expression of one or more genes of interest is desired using the hsdM region, a variety of culture methodologies may be applied. For example, large-scale production of a specific product made possible by integrated gene expression in a recombinant microbial host may be accomplished by both batch and continuous culture methodologies.  
     
    
    [0184]
      A classical batch culturing method is a closed system where the composition of the media is set at the beginning of the culture and not subject to external alterations during the culturing process. Thus, at the beginning of the culturing process the media is inoculated with the desired organism or organisms and growth or metabolic activity is permitted to occur while adding nothing to the system. Typically, however, a “batch” culture is batch with respect to the addition of carbon source and attempts are often made at controlling factors such as pH and oxygen concentration. In batch systems the metabolite and biomass compositions of the system change constantly up to the time the culture is terminated. Within batch cultures cells moderate through a static lag phase to a high growth log phase and finally to a stationary phase where growth rate is diminished or halted. If untreated, cells in the stationary phase will eventually die. Cells in log phase are often responsible for the bulk of production of end product or intermediate in some systems. Stationary or post-exponential phase production can be obtained in other systems.  
     
    
    [0185]
      A variation on the standard batch system is the Fed-Batch system. Fed-Batch culture processes are also suitable in the present invention and comprise a typical batch system with the exception that the substrate is added in increments as the culture progresses. Fed-Batch systems are useful when catabolite repression is apt to inhibit the metabolism of the cells and where it is desirable to have limited amounts of substrate in the media. Measurement of the actual substrate concentration in Fed-Batch systems is difficult and is therefore estimated on the basis of the changes of measurable factors such as pH, dissolved oxygen and the partial pressure of waste gases such as C0 2 . Batch and Fed-Batch culturing methods are common and well known in the art and examples may be found in Thomas D. Brock in  Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology,  2 nd  ed. (1989) Sinauer Associates: Sunderland, MA, or Deshpande, Mukund V.,  Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol.,  36:227 (1992).  
     
    
    [0186]
      Commercial production of a product of interest in a methylotrophic bacteria may also be accomplished with a continuous culture. Continuous cultures are an open system where a defined culture media is added continuously to a bioreactor and an equal amount of conditioned media is removed simultaneously for processing. Continuous cultures generally maintain the cells at a constant high liquid phase density where cells are primarily in log phase growth. Alternatively continuous culture may be practiced with immobilized cells where carbon and nutrients are continuously added, and valuable products, by-products and waste products are continuously removed from the cell mass. Cell immobilization may be performed using a wide range of solid supports composed of natural and/or synthetic materials.  
     
    
    [0187]
      Continuous or semi-continuous culture allows for the modulation of one factor or any number of factors that affect cell growth or end product concentration. For example, one method will maintain a limiting nutrient such as the carbon source or nitrogen level at a fixed rate and allow all other parameters to moderate. In other systems a number of factors affecting growth can be altered continuously while the cell concentration, measured by media turbidity, is kept constant. Continuous systems strive to maintain steady state growth conditions and thus the cell loss due to media being drawn off must be balanced against the cell growth rate in the culture. Methods of modulating nutrients and growth factors for continuous culture processes, as well as techniques for maximizing the rate of product formation, are well known in the art of industrial microbiology and a variety of methods are detailed by Brock, supra.  
   EXAMPLES  
   
    
    [0188]
      The present invention is further defined in the following Examples. It should be understood that these Examples, while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only. From the above discussion and these Examples, one skilled in the art can ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention, and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof, can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various uses and conditions.  
   GENERAL METHODS  
   
    
    [0189]
      Standard recombinant DNA and molecular cloning techniques used in the Examples are well known in the art and are described by Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T.  Molecular Cloninq: A Laboratory Manual;  Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1989) (“Maniatis”); by T. J. Silhavy, M. L. Bennan, and L. W. Enquist,  Experiments with Gene Fusions , Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1984); and by Ausubel, F. M. et al.,  Current Protocols in Molecular Biology , published by Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken, N.J. (1987). Polymerase Chain Reactions (PCR) techniques can be found in White, B.,  PCR Protocols: Current Methods and Applications , Humana: Totowa, N.J. (1993), Vol. 15.  
     
    
    [0190]
      General materials and methods suitable for the maintenance and growth of bacterial cultures are found in:  Experiments in Molecular Genetics  (Jeffrey H. Miller), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1972);  Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology  (Phillip Gerhardt, R. G. E. Murray, Ralph N. Costilow, Eugene W. Nester, Willis A. Wood, Noel R. Krieg and G. Briggs Phillips, eds.), American Society for Microbiology: Washington, D.C., pp 210-213; or, Thomas D. Brock in  Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology  2 nd  ed. Sinauer Associates: Sunderland, Mass. (1989).  
     
    
    [0191]
      The meaning of abbreviations is as follows: “sec” means second(s), “min” means minute(s), “hr” means hour(s), “d” means day(s), “μL” means microliter(s), “mL” means milliliter(s), “L” means liter(s), “μM” means micromolar, “mM” means millimolar, “M” means molar, “mmol” means millimole(s), “μmol” mean micromole(s), “nmol” means nanomole(s), “pmol” means picomole(s), “g” means gram(s), “μg” means microgram(s), “ng” means nanogram(s), “nm” means nanometers, “U” means unit(s), “ppm” means parts per million, “bp” means base pair(s), “rpm” means revolutions per minute, “kB” means kilobase(s), “g” means the gravitation constant, “MW” means molecular weight, “Conc.” means concentration, “Kn” or “Kn r ” means kanamycin resistance gene, “Cm” or “Cm r ” means chloramphenicol resistance gene, “OD 600 ” means the optical density measured at 600 nm, “OD 260 /OD 280 ” means the ratio of the optical density measured at 260 nm to the optical density measured at 280 nm, and “mAU” means milliabsorbance units.  
     
    
    [0192]
      All reagents and materials used for the growth and maintenance of bacterial cells were obtained from Aldrich Chemicals (Milwaukee, Wisc.), BD Diagnostic Systems (Sparks, Md.), Invitrogen Corp. (Carlsbad, Calif.), or Sigma Chemical Company (St. Louis, Mo.), unless otherwise specified.  
   Example 1  
 Construction of Promoterless Carotenoid Transposons  
   
    
    [0193]
      Promoterless carotenoid transposons were constructed for the purpose of identifying chromosomal insertions site that support high-level carotenoid gene expression and stable carotenoid production.  
     
    
    [0194]
      The in vivo transposition vector pUTminiTn5gfpTet provided essential plasmid and transposon functions used to construct a promoterless carotenoid transposon vector. The carotenoid genes necessary for canthaxanthin or astaxanthin production were taken from carotenoid plasmids pDCQ334 (SEQ ID NO: 1), pDCQ341 (SEQ ID NO: 2), pDCQ343 (SEQ ID NO: 3), or pDCQ377 (SEQ ID NO: 4). In addition, the kanamycin resistance gene was PCR amplified from EZ::TN™ <Kan-2> (Epicentre, Madison, Wisc.).  
   Preparation of Several Carotenoid Gene Cluster Expression Plasmids  
    Plasmid pDCQ334 (Astaxanthin Gene Cluster)  
     
    
    [0195]
      Plasmid pDCQ334 (SEQ ID NO: 1) was created by cloning into the broad host range plasmid pBHR1 (MoBiTec GmbH, Goettingen, Germany) codon-optimized versions of the crtW ketolase gene and crtZ hydroxylase gene from  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997844, hereby incorporated by reference) immediately upstream of the crtEidiYIB gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/808807; hereby incorporated by reference) forming the gene cluster crtWZEidiYIB (SEQ ID NO: 5) operably linked to the chloramphenicol resistance gene promoter (P cat ) on pBHR1. Transposon vector pUTmTn5-334 was prepared by cloning the promoterless crtWZEidiYIB gene cluster from pDCQ334 into pUTmTn5.  
      Plasmid pDCQ341 (Canthaxanthin Gene Cluster)  
     
    
    [0196]
      Plasmid pDCQ341 (SEQ ID NO: 2) was created by cloning into plasmid pBHR1 the  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 crtW ketolase gene (SEQ ID NO: 6; U.S. Ser. No. 11/015433; hereby incorporated by reference) immediately upstream of the crtEYIB gene cluster from  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/808979; hereby incorporated by reference) forming a crtWEYIB carotenoid gene cluster (SEQ ID NO: 6) operably linked to the P cat  promoter. Transposon vector pUTmTn5-341 Kn was prepared by eliminating the crtZ coding region from transposon cloning vector pUTmTn5-343Kn.  
      Plasmid pDCQ343 (Astaxanthin Gene Cluster)  
     
    
    [0197]
      Plasmid pDCQ343 (SEQ ID NO: 3) was created by cloning into plasmid pDCQ341 the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 crtZ hydroxylase (U.S. Ser. No. 60/601947) into the crtWEYIB gene cluster forming a crtWZEYIB carotenoid gene cluster (SEQ ID NO: 7) operably linked to the P cat  promoter. Transposon vector pUTmTn5-343 was prepared by cloning the promoterless crtEYIB cluster from plasmid pDCQ343 to create pUTmTn5-343EYIB. The promoterless crtWZ gene cluster was PCR amplified using the pDCQ343 plasmid as a template. The amplified fragment was subsequently cloned upstream of the crtEYIB cluster in pUTmTn5-343EYIB, creating transposon vector pUTmTn5-343.  
      Plasmid pDCQ377 (Astaxanthin Gene Cluster)  
     
    
    [0198]
      Plasmid pDCQ377 (SEQ ID NO: 4) was created by cloning into plasmid pBHR1 the crtw gene and the crtZ gene from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/015433 and U.S. Ser. No. 60/601947) immediately upstream of the crtEidiYlB gene cluster from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/808807; hereby incorporated by reference) forming a crtWZEidiYIB carotenoid gene cluster (SEQ ID NO: 8) operably linked to the P cat  promoter. Transposon vector pUTmTn5-377Kn was created by removing the carotenoid gene cluster from pUTmTn5-334Kn and inserting the promoterless crtWZEidiYIB cluster from plasmid pDCQ377.  
   Preparation of the pUTmTn5qfpTet Vector DNA  
   
    
    [0199]
      The pUTmTn5gfpTet vector DNA (Matthysse et al., supra; de Lorenzo et al., supra; Herrero et al., supra; see GenBank® AY364166) was digested with Xmal at 37° C. for two hours, which was followed by a brief dephosphorylation treatment with Shrimp Alkaline Phosphatase (SAP) (USB Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio). The digestion reaction was separated on a 0.7% TBE agarose gel and the Zymo DNA extraction kit was used to purify the vector DNA fragment (Zymo Research, Orange, Calif.). This digestion resulted in the removal of the gfp and tet genes, but left intact the plasmid functions, the gene encoding the transposase, and the ends of the Tn5 transposon.  
   Preparation of Multiple Cloning Site (MCS) Insert DNA  
   
    
    [0200]
      Two PCR primers MCS.F 5′-AATTCCCGGGACTAGTACGCGTGCGGCCGCCCATGGCATATGTTCG AACCCGGGTACC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 9) and MCS.R 5′-GGTACCCGGGTTCGAACATATGCCATGGGCGGCCGCACGCGTACTA GTCCCGGGA-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 10) were annealed together under the following conditions. They were mixed together is a 1:1 molar ratio to a final concentration of 100 pmol/μL. The mixture was heated to 100° C. for five minutes, then gradually cooled over ˜20 minutes by turning off the heat source. As the temperature cooled to 40° C., the tubes were transferred to ice. The annealed primers were subsequently digested with restriction endonuclease Xmal. The QlAquick Nucleotide Removal Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, Calif.) was used to purified the MCS insert DNA.  
   Construction of the pUTmTn5 Vector+Multiple Cloning Site (MCS)  
   
    
    [0201]
      The Xmal digested and SAP dephosphorylated pUTmTn5 vector DNA was ligated with the Xmal digested MCS insert DNA at 11° C. for 15 minutes. Prior to electroporation, the ligation reaction was heat inactivated by incubation at 70° C. for 5 minutes. One microliter of the ligation mixture was electroporated into 30 μL of electrocompetent  E. coli  SY327 cells (Miller, V. L. and Mekalanos, J. J.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.,  81(11):3471-3475 (1984). The cells were allowed to recover in 400 mL of SOC medium for 90 minutes and 50 μL and 100 μL was plated onto LB+ampicillin (100 μg/mL) agar plates. Twenty-four transformants were selected for plasmid isolation. The mini-prep (Qiagen) plasmid DNA was digested with SpelINhel at 37° C. for 1.5 hours. The plasmid DNA samples containing an insert DNA fragment produce two DNA fragments (˜1.1 kB & 4.2 kB) when digested with Spel and Nhel. One out of ten clones was correct. The orientation of the insert DNA was determined via DNA sequencing using two DNA sequencing primers pUTmTn5/Seq.F 5′-GCACGATGAAGAGCAGAAGTTATC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 11) and pUTmTn5/Seq.R 5′-AACACTTAACGGCTGACATGG-3′(SEQ ID NO: 12).  
   Construction of the pUTmTn5-334  
 Promoterless Astaxanthin Transposon  
   
    
    [0202]
      The astaxanthin-producing plasmid pDCQ334 (SEQ ID NO: 1) was the source of carotenoid genes used to construct pUTmTn5-334.  
     
    
    [0203]
      The transposon vector (pUTmTn5) and pDCQ334 were both digested with BstBI and Spel. Digestion of pDCQ334 with BstBI and Spel liberated the entire carotenoid cluster (crtWZEidiYIB) (SEQ ID NO: 5) from pDCQ334 without any promoter sequences from the vector. The two DNA samples were incubated with BstBI at 65° C. for 2 hrs; subsequently, the two DNA samples were further digested Spel. This digestion mixture was incubated at 37° C. for several more hours. The Spel/BstBI digested DNA samples were separated on an agarose preparative gel. The desired bands (an ˜5.2 kB band for the insert DNA fragment containing the carotenoid genes from pDCQ334 and an ˜7.4 kB band for the pUTmTn5 vector DNA fragment) were excised from the gel and purified using the Zymo DNA extraction kit (Zymo Research Corp.). This DNA was used in the ligation reaction, which was allowed to incubate for 15 minutes at room temperature. Following the incubation period, the ligation reaction was heat inactivated by incubation at 70° C. for 15 minutes,1 μL of the ligation mixture was electroporated into 32 μL of  E. coli  SY327 electroporation-competent cells. The transformed cells recovered for ˜1 hour at 37° C. in 800 μL SOC medium; next, all of the transformation mixture was spread unto LB+Amp 100  (100 μg/mL) plates. Ten colonies were picked and cultured overnight for plasmid DNA isolation. The plasmid DNA (Qiagen Mini-prep Kit) was digested with Mfel. In addition to identifying correct transposon clones, this digestion would also allow the orientation of the MCS to be confirmed. The expected size of the DNA fragments were ˜9.2 kB & 3.4 kB if the MCS were in the (+) orientation and ˜8.1 kB & 4.5 kB if the MCS were in the (−) orientation. All ten of the pUTmTn5-334 candidates produced two DNA fragments that were ˜8.1 kB and 4.5 kB in size, indicating that the correct insert DNA fragment was ligated into the pUTmTn5 transposon vector and that the MCS was in the negative orientation. The next step in the construction of the transposon vector is the addition of an antibiotic resistance gene, which permits the transconjugants to be isolated following the conjugation reaction.  
   Construction of the pUTmTn5-334Kn  
 Promoterless Astaxanthin Transposon  
   
    
    [0204]
      To select for transconjugants that received a transposon insertion during the conjugation, the antibiotic resistance gene that confers resistance to kanamycin was inserted between the transposon ends. The source of the kanamycin resistance gene was transposon EZ::TN™ <Kan-2> (Epicentre, Madison, Wisc.). PCR amplification of the EZ::TN™ <Kan-2> kanamycin resistance gene was accomplished using PCR primers KnAvrIlKpnIBstBI.R2 5′-ATGCTTCGAACGGGTACCTAGGATGCGTGATCTGATCC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 13) and KnBstBI.F 5′-TGGCTTCGMCGATGAATTGTGTCTC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 14) using the following PCR program: Hold (94° C., 4 min.); 20 cycles (93° C., 30 sec; 50-60° C. gradient, 1 min.; 72° C., 1.5 min.); Hold (72° C., 1.5 min.); Hold (4° C.). After visualizing the product(s) of the PCR reaction on an agarose gel, 0.5 μL of the PCR product was used as the insert DNA in a TOPO ligation reaction in which pCR®2.1 was the vector DNA (TA Cloning® Kit, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.). The ligation reaction incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes and was used to transform chemically competent  E. coli  One Shot® TOP10 cells according to Invitrogen's protocol. Five white colonies from Blue/White screen were cultivated for plasmid DNA isolation (Qiagen Plasmid Mini Kit). Digestion of the plasmid DNA with Xhol and visualization on a 0.7% agarose gel revealed that all five candidates were correct and were ligated in the reverse orientation. The plasmid was designated pCR2.1Kn R . In preparation for the ligation reaction, a larger quantity of pCR2.1 Kn R  and pUTmTn5-334 plasmid DNA was sequentially digested with BstBI and AvrIl. First the BstBI restriction digestion reaction was carried out at 65° C. for two hours, next the temperature was cooled to 37° C. and AvrIl was added and the reaction continued for an additional two hours. The vector DNA was dephosphorylated to prevent vector re-ligation using SAP by incubation at 37° C. for 1 hour. The fragments for the insert DNA were separated on an agarose gel, an ˜1 kB DNA fragment was excised and purified using the Zymo DNA extraction kit (Zymo Research). The BstBI and AvrIl digested vector and insert DNA were ligated for 15 minutes at room temperature, afterward the reaction was heat-inactivated at 70° C. for 15 minutes and 0.5 μL of the ligation reaction was used to transform 40 μL of  E. coli  SY327 cells. Following incubation on ice and heat shock, 800 μL of SOC medium was added and the cells were allowed to recover at 37° C. for 1 hour. Approximately 50 μL of transformation mixture was plated onto LB+Kn 25  agar plates. Ten colonies were patched onto LB+Kn 25  plates; two of the patches were selected for plasmid isolation (Qiagen Plasmid Mini Prep Kit). The pUTmTn5-334Kn candidates were confirmed to be correct by digestion with Xhol and Notl. Three DNA fragments (˜9.3 kB, 3.0 kB & 1.4 kB in size) were generated for both candidate plasmids. The transposon vector pUTmTn5-334Kn will be conjugated into  Methylomonas  to identify chromosomal locations that support high-level carotenoid synthesis.  
   Construction of the pUTmTn5-343  
 Promoterless Astaxanthin Transposon  
   
    
    [0205]
      The astaxanthin-producing plasmid pDCQ343 (SEQ ID NO: 3) was prepared by cloning into plasmid pDCQ341 the  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 crtZ hydroxylase coding region (U.S. Ser. No. 60/601947) into the crtWEYlB gene cluster forming a crtWZEYIB carotenoid gene cluster (SEQ ID NO: 7) operably linked to the P cat  promoter. Plasmid pDCQ343 was the source of carotenoid genes used to construct pUTmTn5-343.  
     
    
    [0206]
      The transposon vector (pUTmTn5) and pDCQ343 were both digested with BstBI and Spel. Digestion of pDCQ343 with BstBI and Spel liberated the backbone carotenoid genes (crtE, crtY, crtl, and crtB) from pDCQ343 without any promoter sequences from the vector. The two DNA samples were incubated with BstBI at 65° C. for 2 hrs; subsequently, the two DNA samples were further digested Spel. This digestion mixture was incubated at 37° C. for several more hours. The Spel/BstBI digested DNA samples were separated on an agarose preparative gel. The desired bands (an ˜4.2 kB band for the insert DNA fragment containing the carotenoid genes from pDCQ343 and an ˜7.4 kB band for the pUTmTn5 vector DNA fragment) were excised from the gel and purified using the Zymo DNA extraction kit. This DNA was used in the ligation reaction, which was allowed to incubate for 15 minutes at room temperature. Following the incubation period, the ligation reaction was heat inactivated by incubation at 70° C. for 15 minutes, 1 μL of the ligation mixture was electroporated into 32 μL of  E. coli  SY327 electroporation-competent cells. The transformed cells recovered for ˜1 hour at 37° C. in 800 μL SOC medium; next, all of the transformation mixture was spread on to LB+Amp 100  plates. Five colonies were picked and cultured overnight for plasmid DNA isolation. The plasmid DNA (Qiagen Mini-prep Kit) was digested with Mfel. In addition to identifying correct transposon clones, this digestion would also allow the orientation of the MCS to be confirmed. The expected size of the DNA fragments were ˜9.0 kB & 1.3 kB if the MCS were in the (+) orientation and ˜6.0 kB & 4.3 kB if the MCS were in the (−) orientation. Four of the five pUTmTn5-343 candidates produced two DNA fragments that were ˜8.1 kB and 4.5 kB in size, indicating that the correct insert DNA fragment was ligated into the pUTmTn5 transposon vector and that the MCS was in the negative orientation.  
     
    
    [0207]
      The addition of the crtW and crtZ genes as well as an antibiotic resistance gene to the pUTmTn5-343EYIB vector was still required to allow the transposon vector use in the identification of chromosomal locations that support high-level production of astaxanthin.  
     
    
    [0208]
      The crtW (SEQ ID NO: 15) and crtZ (SEQ ID NO: 16) genes were amplified from pDCQ343 template DNA using PCR primers p343crtZSpel.F 5′-TACCCACTAGTMGGAGGAATAAACCATGACCG-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 17) and p343crtWSpel.R 5′-GGTTGGTACTAGTTCAGGC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 18) using the following PCR program: Hold (94° C., 4 min.); 20 cycles (94° C., 30 sec; 45-55° C. gradient, 1 min.; 72° C., 1.5 min.); Hold (72° C., 7 min.); Hold (4° C.). The PCR product was ligated into the TOPO vector pCR®2.1 and transformed into chemically competent  E. coli  One Shot® TOP10 cells (Invitrogen). Two white colonies from the Blue/White screen were chosen for plasmid isolation. In addition to the isolated TOPO plasmid DNA, the vector pUTmTn5-343EYIB was also digested with Spel for three hours at 37° C. DNA fragments of the correct sizes [insert DNA (1.3 kB) and vector DNA (10.3 kB)] were excised from the agarose gel and purified using the Zymo DNA extraction kit. The purified DNA fragments (the crtWZ insert DNA and the pUTmTn5-343EYIB vector DNA) were used in the ligation reaction. The ligation of the two DNA fragments was allowed to occur for 5 minutes at room temperature. Afterward, the ligation reaction was heat inactivated by incubation at 70° C. for 15 minutes and was used to transform 40 μL of  E. coli  SY327 electroporation-competent cells. Following the heat shock at 42° C., the transformation mixture was allowed to recover in 800 μL SOC for 1 hour at 37° C. and was plated on LB+Amp 100  agar plates. Approximately 40 colonies were cultivated and the plasmid DNA was isolated using the Qiagen plasmid Mini Kit. Interestingly, one of the colonies had a slight yellowish pigment. The 40 candidates were screened for those having the correct insert DNA fragment by digestion with BsrGI and Ncol. Plasmid candidates clones containing the crtW/crtZ insert DNA fragment produced four DNA fragments (˜6.0 kB, 3.6 kB, 1.2 kB & 0.8 kB) upon digestion with BsrGI and Ncol. Three of the candidates produced DNA fragments of the correct size, which included the plasmid DNA isolated from the colony having the yellowish pigment in  E. coli . These candidate clones were confirmed to have the correct insert DNA by digestion with BamHI and BsrGI. This plasmid is referred to as pUTmTn5-343.  
   Construction of the pUTmTn5-343Cm  
 Promoterless Astaxanthin Transposon  
   
    
    [0209]
      To select for transconjugants that received a transposon insertion during the conjugation, the antibiotic resistance gene that confers resistance to chloramphenicol (Cm) was inserted adjacent to the carotenoid genes for astaxanthin synthesis in pUTmTn5-343. The source of the Cm resistance gene (SEQ ID NO: 32) was pUTmTn5Cm ( FIG. 3 ). The transposon vector pUTmTn5Cm was constructed by ligating an EcoRV fragment containing the gene that confers resistance to chloramphenicol from pGPS2.1 (New England Biolabs, Beverly, Mass.) into Smal digested pUTmTn5gfptet. The genes encoding both gfp and TetA were absent from the resulting vector, pUTmTn5Cm. The chloramphenicol resistance gene was PCR-amplified using PCR primers CmAvrIlKpnlBstBl.R 5′-ATGCTTCGAACGGGTACCTAGGCGTTTAAGGGCACCAATAAC-3 (SEQ ID NO: 19) and CmBstBl.F 5′-TGGCTTCGAATACCTGTGACGGAAGATC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 20) and the following PCR program: Hold (94° C., 4 min.); 20 cycles (94° C., 30 sec; 50-60° C. gradient, 1 min.; 72° C., 1.5 min.); Hold (72° C., 7 min.); Hold (4° C.). The Cm PCR fragment was cloned into TOPO vector pCR®2.1. Using a Blue/White screen, many white colonies were identified when the transformation was plated onto LB+Amp 100  agar plates. Two colonies were grown for plasmid isolation (Qiagen) and the plasmid DNA was examined for the proper insert DNA fragment by digestion with Ncol (2.7 kB and 2.2 kB in one orientation or 3.1 kB and 1.8 kB in the other orientation). Both candidates contained the appropriate insert DNA fragment.  
     
    
    [0210]
      To prepare the insert DNA for ligation into pUTmTn5, pCR2.1 Cm was digested sequentially with AvrIl and BstBI. The vector DNA pUTmTn5-343 was digested with the same restriction enzymes. Both plasmids were initially incubated with AvrIl at 37° C. for one hour, after that, the temperature was raised to 65° C. and BstBI was added and the reaction continued for and additional two hours. For the pUTmTn5-343 vector DNA, the reaction was cooled to 37° C., the SAP was added and the dephosphorylation reaction continued for an extra hour. The dephosphorylated vector DNA was purified using the Zymo DNA extraction kit. The insert DNA was analyzed on an agarose gel, the ˜1 kB band was excised, and purified from the gel using the Zymo DNA extraction kit. The AvrIl/BstBI digested Cm insert DNA and the pUTmTn5-343 vector were ligated for 15 minutes at room temperature. The reaction was heat inactivated by incubation at 70° C. for 15 minutes. Subsequently, approximately 0.5 μL of the ligation reaction was used to transform 40 μL of  E. coli  SY327 cells. The transformation reaction was permitted to recover in 800 μL of SOC medium for one hour and was plated onto LB+Cm 25  (25 μg/mL) agar plates.  
     
    
    [0211]
      Three pUTmTn5-343Cm candidates were selected be evaluated for the presence of the Cm insert DNA using digestion with Ncol and the generation of four bands (˜6.7 kB, 3.6 kB, 1.2 kB and 0.9 kB). All three candidates were correct and the new vector was named pUTmTn5-343Cm. The transposon vector pUTmTn5-343Cm will be used in future conjugation reactions.  
   Construction of the pUTmTn5-343Kn  
 Promoterless Astaxanthin Transposon  
   
    
    [0212]
      The transposon vector pUTmTn5-343Kn vector was constructed by ligating BstBI/AvrIl linearized and gel purified pUTmTn5-343 vector DNA with BstBI/AvrIl digested kanamycin DNA fragment from pCR®2.1 (Invitrogen). The joining of the vector and insert DNAs was carried out using an in-gel ligation procedure. After excising the vector DNA fragment from the agarose gel, it was soaked in 40 mL of molecular biology grade H 2 O for 20 minutes to dilute the Tris-Borate-EDTA (TBE) buffer present in the agarose gel slice. The water was removed and an additional 40 μL of H 2 O was added and the gel soaked for five more minutes. It was important not to soak too long due to the lost of DNA due to diffusion. The agarose gel slice was removed from the water and transferred to a new tube. Approximately half of the gel slice was used in the ligation reaction. Four microliters of the ligase buffer (1× concentration) and 2 μL of ATP was added to the agarose gel slice. The components were crushed and mixed using a pipette tip. The mixture was allowed to equilibrate for ˜30 minutes, which permitted the vector DNA to emerge from the agarose gel into the liquid and the ligation buffer components to diffuse into the pieces of agarose gel, resulting in a 1× final concentration. The in-gel ligation and standard ligation mixtures were diluted 1:3 and used to transform  E. coli  SY327 electroporation competent cells. The transformation mixture was plated onto LB+Kan 50  agar plates.  
     
    
    [0213]
      PCR amplification was used to screen the transformants for cells containing the correct vector DNA. The PCR primers used in the reaction was pUTmTn5/Seq.F (SEQ ID NO: 11) and KnBstBl.F (SEQ ID NO: 14). The vector pUTmTn-334Kn was also amplified as a control. Following the PCR amplification reaction, the candidate PCR DNA, as well as, pUTmTn5-343Cm and pUTmTn5-343 were digested with Ncol. The expected sizes of the DNA fragments pUTmTn5-343Cm (0.95 kB, 1.2 kB, 0.36 kB, and 0.67 kB), pUTmTn5-343 (1.2 kB, 0.36 kB, and 0.67 kB), and pUTmTn5-343Kn (1.2 kB, 3.6 kB, 7.8 kB). The candidate DNA gave DNA fragments of the correct size (the 0.95 kB DNA fragment disappeared and the largest DNA fragment shifted upward). Thus, it was confirmed that the antibiotic resistance gene of pUTmTn5-343Cm was changed from Cm to Kn, forming a plasmid referred to pUTmTn5-343Kn.  
   Construction of pUTmTn5-341 Kn  
 Promoterless Canthaxanthin Transposon  
   
    
    [0214]
      The transposon vector pUTmTn5-341 Kn vector was constructed by eliminating the crtZ gene from pUTmTn5-343Kn. This was accomplished by digesting pDCQ341 and pUTmTn5-343Kn with BsrG1 and Astll, which generated DNA fragments that were ˜2.9 kB and ˜9.2 kB, respectively. The gel-purified transposon vector backbone DNA from pUTmTn5-343Kn (contained a partial crtW, a partial crtl, an intact crtB, and an intact Kn R  gene) and the insert DNA from pDCQ341 (contained a partial crtW, the remainder of crtl, an intact crtE, and intact crtY) were joined together in a ligation reaction. After terminating the ligation reaction by heating at 70° C. overnight, 0.5 mL of the ligation mixture was used to transform electroporation competent  E. coli  SY327 cells. The electroporation mixture recovered for one hour in 800 mL of SOC medium and was plated onto LB +Amp 50  agar plates. PCR amplification using isolated colonies as the DNA source was used to screen for colonies containing the correct insert DNA fragment using PCR primers pUTmTn5/Seq R (5′-AACACTTAACGGCTGACATGG-3′)(SEQ ID NO: 12) and crtE343R (5-ACATCGTATTGCGTGCGCAT-3′)(SEQ ID NO: 21) and the following PCR parameters: Hold (94° C. for 4 min.); 30 cycles (94° C. for 30 sec., 52° C. for 30 sec., 72° C. for 2.5 min.); Hold (72° C. for 10 min.); Hold (4° C.). Unfortunately, the PCR results were ambiguous, therefore, colonies were streaked onto agar plates and these cells were used for mini-prep DNA isolation. The plasmid DNA was isolated from four colonies and was digested with Spel. The expected DNA fragment sizes were ˜11.4 kB & ˜1.3 kB for the parental vector pUTmTn5-343Kn and ˜11.4 kB & 0.8 kB for the new transposon vector pUTmTn5-341 Kn. One of the four samples had the correct insert DNA. It was also noticed that cells from this sample were slightly yellow in color, suggesting that the promoterless carotenoid transposon genes were being expressed from a remote promoter in the vector sequences.  
   Construction of the pUTmTn5-377Kn  
 Promoterless Astaxanthin Transposon  
   
    
    [0215]
      The transposon vector pUTmTn5-377Kn was constructed by removing the carotenoid gene cluster form pUTmTn5-334Kn (Example 1) and replacing it with the carotenoid gene cluster from pDCQ377 (SEQ ID NO: 4).  
     
    
    [0216]
      The carotenoid cluster in pDCQ334 was released from the vector backbone using BstBI and Xmal. This digestion was carried out in two steps. First, the DNA is digested Xmal for two hours at 37° C., subsequently the temperature is raised to 65° C., BstBI is added and the reaction proceeded for an additional two hours. Upon completion of the digestion reaction, the DNA fragments were dephosphorylated with SAP to prevent re-ligation of the vector during the ligation reaction. There were five bands (6.3 kB, 4.3 kB. 2.5 kB 0.3 kB & 0.2 kB) generated during the digestion. It as very important that the digestion reaction went to completion, so that the smaller DNA fragments (0.3 kB & 0.2 kB) were liberated from the desired 6.3 kb DNA fragment which contained the element necessary for vector replication, conjugation and transposition. The 6.3 kB DNA fragment was excised from the agarose gel and the DNA was extracted using the Zymo DNA extraction kit.  
     
    
    [0217]
      The carotenoid gene cluster in pDCQ377 (SEQ ID NO: 4) was removed using BspEI and BstBl. Since the two enzymes use different buffers the reaction was performed in two steps. First, the DNA was digested with BspEI at 37° C. for two hours. Afterward the salt from the digestion reaction was removed using columns from the Zymo DNA extraction kit. Next, BstBI was added to the DNA, which incubated at 65° C. for an additional hour. There were two bands (7.5 kB & 4.8 kB) generated. The 7.5 kB DNA fragment, which contained the carotenoid gene cluster necessary for the production of astaxanthin, was excised from the agarose gel and purified using the Zymo kit.  
     
    
    [0218]
      The ligation of the carotenoid gene cluster from pDCQ377 into the pUTmTn5Kn vector was not successful after multiple attempts. Therefore, a new cloning strategy was designed in which pUTmTn5-334 was digested with Xmal and Ncol and pDCQ377 was digested with BspEI and Ncol. Subsequently, the pDCQ377 digested DNA was dephosphorylated using SAP. A DNA fragment ˜6.5 kB in size was excised from the gel for the pUTmTn5-334Kn digested DNA and a DNA fragment ˜7.2 kB was cut from the gel of the pDCQ377 digested DNA. Following the clean up of the DNA samples using the Montage Kit, the insert and vector DNA fragments were used in the ligation reaction, which incubated for 20 minutes at room temperature. The ligation reaction was heat inactivated at 70° C. for 15 minutes prior to the transformation of 50 μL of electroporation-competent  E. coli  SY327 cells. After incubation on ice and the heat shock reaction, the transformation recovered in 800 μL of SOC medium for ˜45 minutes and was plated onto LB+Amp 100  agar plates. Fourteen colonies were picked for plasmid DNA purification (Qiagen). The 14 candidate plasmids were screened by digestion with Spel/Nhel/Xbal; one of the candidate plasmids exhibited the correct restriction pattern. The candidate was confirmed by digestion with Kpnl, which generated four DNA fragments (˜11.0 kB, 1.3 kB, 1.0 kB & 0.5 kB). The new vector was named pUTmTn5-377Kn. The transposon vector pUTmTn5-377Kn will be used in future conjugation reactions.  
   Example 2  
 Growth of Methylomonas Sp. 16A  
   
    
    [0219]
      Example 2 describes the standard conditions used for growth of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402), as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601, hereby incorporated by reference.  
      Methylomonas Strain and Culture Media  
     
    
    [0220]
      The growth conditions described below were used throughout the following experimental Examples for treatment of  Methylomonas  sp., unless conditions were specifically described otherwise.  
     
    
    [0221]
      Briefly,  Methylomonas  sp. 16a was typically grown in serum stoppered Wheaton bottles (Wheaton Scientific; Wheaton, Ill.) using a gas/liquid ratio of at least 8:1 (i.e., 20 mL or less of ammonium liquid “BTZ” growth medium in a Wheaton bottle of 160 mL total volume). The composition of the BTZ growth medium is given below. The standard gas phase for cultivation contained 25% methane in air, although methane concentrations can vary ranging from about 5-50% by volume of the culture headspace. These conditions comprise growth conditions and the cells are referred to as growing cells. In all cases, the cultures were grown at 30° C. with constant shaking in a rotary shaker (Lab-Line, Barnstead/Thermolyne; Dubuque, Iowa) unless otherwise specified.  
      BTZ Media for  Methylomonas  sp.  
     
    
    [0222]
       Methylomonas  16a (and derivatives thereof) typically grows in a defined medium composed of only minimal salts; no organic additions such as yeast extract or vitamins are required to achieve growth. This defined medium known as BTZ medium (also referred to herein as “ammonium liquid medium”) consisted of various salts mixed with Solution 1, as indicated in Tables 1 and 2. Alternatively, the ammonium chloride was replaced with 10 mM sodium nitrate to give “BTZ (nitrate) medium”, where specified. Solution 1 provides the composition for a 100-fold concentrated stock solution of trace minerals.  
           TABLE 1                         Solution 1*               Molecular   Conc.               Weight   (mM)   g per L                           Nitriloacetic acid   191.10   66.90   12.80           CuCl 2  × 2H 2 O   170.48   0.15   0.0254           FeCl 2  × 4H 2 O   198.81   1.50   0.30           MnCl 2  × 4H 2 O   197.91   0.50   0.10           CoCl 2  × 6H 2 O   237.90   1.31   0.312           ZnCl 2     136.29   0.73   0.10           H 3 BO 3     61.83   0.16   0.01           Na 2 MoO 4  × 2H 2 O   241.95   0.04   0.01           NiCl 2  × 6H 2 O   237.70   0.77   0.184                         *Mix the gram amounts designated above in 900 mL of H 2 O, adjust to pH = 7.0, and add H 2 O to a final volume of 1 L. Keep refrigerated.              
     
    
    [0223]
     
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 Ammonium Liquid Medium (BTZ)** 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 Conc. 
   
 
 
   
 MW 
 (mM) 
 g per L 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 NH 4 Cl 
 53.49 
 10 
 0.537 
 
 
   
 KH 2 PO 4   
 136.09 
 3.67 
 0.5 
 
 
   
 Na 2 SO 4   
 142.04 
 3.52 
 0.5 
 
 
   
 MgCl 2  × 6H 2 O 
 203.3 
 0.98 
 0.2 
 
 
   
 CaCl 2  × 2H 2 O 
 147.02 
 0.68 
 0.1 
 
 
   
 1 M HEPES (pH 7.0) 
 238.3 
   
 50 ml 
 
 
   
 Solution 1 
   
   
 10 ml 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   **Dissolve in 900 mL H 2 O. Adjust to pH = 7.0, and add H 2 O to give a final volume of 1 L. For agar plates: Add 15 g of agarose in 1 L of medium, autoclave, cool liquid solution to 50° C., mix, and pour plates.    
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
    [0224]
      Plates were incubated in a closed jar with 25% methane at 30° C.  
   Example 3  
 Tri-Parental Conjugation of the Various Transposon Vectors into  Methylomonas  sp.  
   
    
    [0225]
      The genetic procedure of in vivo transposition was used to screen the  Methylomonas  genome for chromosomal locations that will support high-level carotenoid expression. Several colonies were identified that exhibited a high level of total carotenoid production.  
     
    
    [0226]
      Each of the promoterless carotenoid transposon vectors were transferred into  Methylomonas  sp. via triparental conjugation. Specifically, the following were used as recipient, donor, and helper, respectively:  Methylomonas  sp. ,  E. coli  SY327 containing the promoterless carotenoid transposon vectors, and  E. coli  containing pRK2013 (ATCC No. 37159).  
      Theory of the Conjugation and in vivo Transposition  
     
    
    [0227]
      The mobilization of vector DNA into  Methylomonas  occurs through conjugation (tri-parental mating) (see U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,308, U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844, and U.S. Ser. No. 11/070,080; hereby incorporated by reference). The pGP704-derived vector used to make transposon insertions into  Methylomonas  genome has a R6K origin of replication, which requires the Π protein. This vector can replicate in  E. coli  strain SY327, which expresses the Π protein. However, this protein is not present in the  Methylomonas  genome. Therefore, once the vector DNA has entered into  Methylomonas  , it is unable to duplicate itself. The transposase, the enzyme responsible for the mobilization of the transposon, is located outside of the transposon ends. Therefore, once the carotenoid transposon inserts into the  Methylomonas  genome, the gene(s) contained between the transposon ends are unable to move a second time within the  Methylomonas  genome.  
     
    
    [0228]
      In the case of  Methylomonas  , transposon plasmids were used to transfer the promoterless carotenoid transposon into this bacterium. The conjugative plasmid (pRK2013; ATCC No. 37159), which resided in a strain of  E. coli , facilitated the DNA transfer.  
      Growth of  Methylomonas  sp.  
     
    
    [0229]
      The growth of  Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200 (ATCC PTA-6887) for tri-parental mating initiated with the inoculation of fresh  Methylomonas  cells into 20 mL of BTZ medium containing 25% methane. The culture was grown at 30° C. with aeration until the density of the culture was saturated producing the seed culture. This seed culture was in turn used to inoculate two bottles containing 100 mL of fresh BTZ medium containing 25% methane. These bottles were inoculated with 200 μL and 400 μL of the seed culture. The following day the two cultures were diluted 1:5 into fresh BTZ medium and were grown at 30° C. with aeration until the culture reached an OD 600  between 0.7 to 0.9. The bottles having an OD 600  closest to the target OD were used in the conjugation. To prepare the cells for the tri-parental mating, the  Methylomonas  sp. cells were washed twice in an equal volume of BTZ medium. The  Methylomonas  cell pellets were re-suspended in the minimal volume needed (approximately 250 to 350 μL). Approximately 60 μL of the re-suspended  Methylomonas  cells were used in each tri-parental mating experiment.  
      Growth of the  Escherichia coli  Donor and Helper Cells  
     
    
    [0230]
      Isolated colonies of the  E. coli  donor (comprising one of the respective transposon vectors) and helper (containing conjugative plasmid pRK2013) cells were used to inoculate 5 mL of LB broth containing 25 μg/μL Kan; these cultures were grown overnight at 30° C. with aeration. The following day, the  E. coli  donor and helper cells were washed twice in equal volumes of fresh LB broth to remove the antibiotics and combined together in the same test tube.  
      Tri-parental Mating: Mobilization of the Donor Plasmid into  Methylomonas  sp.  
     
    
    [0231]
      Approximately 60 μL of the re-suspended  Methylomonas  cells were used to re-suspend the combined  E. coli  donor and helper cell pellets. After thoroughly mixing the cells, the cell suspension was spotted onto BTZ agar plates containing 0.05% yeast extract. The plates were incubated at 30° C. for 3 days in a jar containing 25% methane.  
     
    
    [0232]
      Following the third day of incubation, the cells were scraped from the plate and re-suspended in BTZ broth. The entire cell suspension was plated onto several BTZ agar plates containing Kan 50 . The plates were incubated at 30° C. in a jar containing 25% methane until colonies were visible (˜4-7 days).  
     
    
    [0233]
      Approximately twenty colonies were streaked in quadrants onto fresh BTZ+Kan 50  agar plates and incubated 1-2 days at 30° C. in the presence of 25% methane. These cells were used to inoculate bottles containing 20 mL of BTZ and 25% methane. After overnight growth, 5 mL of the culture was concentrated by centrifugation using a tabletop centrifuge. Then, to rid the cultures of  E. coli  cells that were introduced during the tri-parental mating, the cells were inoculated into 20 mL of BTZ liquid medium containing nitrate (10 mM) as the nitrogen source, methanol (200 mM), and 25% methane and grown overnight at 30° C. with aeration. Cells from the BTZ (nitrate) cultures were again inoculated into BTZ and 25% methane and grown overnight at 30° C. with aeration. The cultures were monitored for  E. coli  growth by plating onto LB agar plates to verify the success of the  E. coli  elimination.  
   Example 4  
 Identification of Chromosomal Insertion Sites for the Promoterless Carotenoid Transposons  
   
    
    [0234]
      Two different approaches were used to determine the location of the transposon insertion sites within the  Methylomonas  genome. A single primer PCR method was used to amplify regions of the  Methylomonas  chromosome (Karlyshev et. al.,  Biotechniques  June 28 (6)1078-82 (2000)). The single primer PCR method required a nested set of primers be designed at both transposon ends. One set of primers was used in the PCR amplification reaction and the other primer set was used in the sequencing reactions. The other method involved direct sequencing of  Methylomonas  chromosomal DNA using DNA primers specific for the end of the transposable element. The insertion sites of the transposable elements are shown in  FIG. 5 .  
     
    
    [0235]
      The single primer PCR method required the amplification of PCR products from the  Methylomonas  chromosomal DNA using the following PCR reaction mixture (50 mL total volume): 19.75 μL H 2 O, 5.0 μL 10×PCR buffer, 4.0 μL MgCl 2 , 15.0 μL Enhancer, 5.0 μL dNTP's (2 mM), 0.5 μL PCR primer (100 μM), 0.25 μL Taq DNA polymerase, & 0.5 μL DNA ( Methylomonas  cells). The PCR primers used for the amplification of the transposon:chromosome junctions are listed in Table 3 (Primers A & C were used to determine the insertion sites of the Tn5-334Kn transposon, primers E & G were used to determine the insertion sites of the Tn5-343Cm and Tn5-341 Kn transposons, and primers I & C were used to determine the insertion sites of the Tn5-377Kn transposon) and the thermocycling parameters were:  
                             1   cycle   5 min. 94° C.       20   cycles   30 sec. 94° C., 30 sec. 60° C., 3 min. 72° C.       30   cycles   30 sec. 94° C., 30 sec. 40° C., 2 min. 72° C.       30   cycles   30 sec. 94° C., 30 sec. 60° C., 2 min. 72° C.       1   cycle   7 min 72° C.           Hold   4° C.                 
 
     
    
    [0236]
      The sequencing primers used to determine the chromosomal locations of the carotenoid transposons are shown in Table 3. Sequencing Primer B was used to sequence the Primer A PCR product for the Tn5-334Kn insertion sites. Sequencing Primer D was used to sequence to the Primer C PCR product for the Tn5-334Kn and the Tn5-334Kn insertion sites. Sequencing Primer F was used to sequence the Primer E PCR product for the Tn5-343Cm and Tn5-341 Kn insertion sites. Sequencing Primer H was used to sequence the Primer G PCR product for the Tn5-343Cm and Tn5-341 Kn insertion sites. Sequencing PrimerJ was used to sequence the Primer I PCR product for the Tn5-377Kn insertion sites. Following PCR amplification of the transposon insertion region via single primer PCR, the Qiagen 96-well PCR cleanup kit was used to remove the PCR primer prior to submission of the PCR fragments for DNA sequencing. The Sequencing primer, which also bound the transposon end, was used to sequence the PCR fragment. This sequence information was used to determine the transposon-chromosome junction site.  
     
    
    [0237]
      Chromosomal DNA (from strains MCIS1807 and MCIS2602) was isolated from 0.5 mL of dense  Methylomonas  culture (OD˜3.5) using the Epicentre MasterPure™ DNA Purification Kit according to manufacturers directions (Epicenter Technologies). The final DNA pellet was resuspended in 100 μL EB (Tris 10 mM, pH 8.5) and used undiluted for direct sequencing of chromosomal templates. The recommended DNA concentration for this procedure is 200-500 ng/μL. Primers were diluted to 10 pmol/μL in H 2 O. Four primers were used on each of the two templates. Primer sequences are shown in Table 3.  
           TABLE 3                         Primer Sequences for DNA Sequencing               Primer   Primer Name   Length   DNA Sequence                   A   pUTmTn5-334KnPCR.F   24   5′-GAACCACAGGGCATGG                       ACATGCAG-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 22)               B   pUTmTn5-334KnSeq.F   22   5′-GGGCGCTCATGGTTTA                   TTCCTC-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 24)               C   pUTmTn5-334KnPCR.R   25   5′-GCAGTTTCATTTGATG                   CTCGATGAG-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 23)               D   pUTmTn5-334KnSeq.R   27   5′-GGGACGGCGGCTTTGT                   TGAATAAATCG-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 25)               E   pUTmTn5-343CmPCR.F   19   5′-GACATGGATCGCCAGC                   CAC-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 26)               F   pUTmTn5-343CmSeq.F   20   5′-GTCGTGATCGACGGTC                   ATGG-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 27)               G   pUTmTn5-343CmPCR.R   27   5′-CCAGACCGTTCAGCTG                   GATATTACGGC-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 28)               H   pUTmTn5-343CmSeq.R   25   5′-AGGCGGCCAGATCTGA                   TCAAGAGAC-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 29)               I   pUTmTn5-377KnPCR.F   23   5′-GTTCGGGACGACCCGT                   GACATTG-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 30)               J   pUTmTn5-377KnSeq.F   23   5′-CATGGCGCCGACACTT                   AGCGCATC-3′                   (SEQ ID NO: 31)                 
 
 Sequencing reactions identified several pigmented strains having transposon insertions in the hsdM region were identified: MCIS1807 and MCIS 2602 (Table 5). Sequence data in both directions agree upon the chromosomal location for both templates; this provides evidence that the identified locations are accurate.  Methylomonas  astaxanthin-producing strains MCIS1807 and MCIS 2602 were demonstrated to contain carotenoid transposons inserted in the hsdM region. 
 
   Example 5  
 Genes within the Identified Integration Site  
   
    
    [0238]
      Numerous open reading frames were identified upon sequencing the regions flanking the transposon insertion sites. BLASTX analysis was used to identify the closest matching sequence in GenBank®. The results of BLASTX analysis are provided in Table 4.  
           TABLE 4                         Top BLASTX Hits for the Open Reading Frames Identified in the hsdM Region from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a           Gene   Similarity Identified   SEQ ID   SEQ ID   %   %               Name   GenBank ® Identification No.   Nucleotide   Peptide   Identity  a     Similarity  b     E-value  c     Citation               orfX   Hypothetical protein; putative   35   36   26   45   6e−47   Heidelberg et al.,           transcriptional regulator                       Nat. Biotechnol. 20 (11),           NP_783549.1 GI: 28275294                       1118-1123 (2002)             Shewanella oneidensis  MR-1       hsdM   Putative restriction   37   38   49   65   0.0   Nishio et al.,           enzyme subunit M                       Genome Res. 13(7),           NP_736867.1 GI: 25026813                       1572-1579 (2003)             Corynebacterium efficiens             YS-314       hsdS   Putative Type I restriction   39   40   36   56   4e−30   Xu, J. et al.           enzyme, HsdS subunit                       Direct submission           AAO79645.1 GI: 29341859             Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron             VPI-5482       hsdR   Closest match to a   41   42   52   67   0.0   Nishio et al.,           hypothetical protein although                       Genome Res. 13(7),           highly similar to several type                       1572-1579 (2003)           I restriction-modification           system, R subunit           NP_736869.1 GI: 25026815             Corynebacterium efficiens             YS-314                   a  % Identity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical between the two protein.              b  % Similarity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical or conserved between the two proteins.              c  Expect value. The Expect value estimates the statistical significance of the match, specifying the number of matches, with a given score, that are expected in a search of a database of this size absolutely by chance.            
 
   Example 6  
 Evaluation of Total Carotenoid Titers in Methylomonas Astazanthin-Transposon Insertion Mutants  
   
    
    [0239]
      The carotenoid titers were calculated by determining the amount of carotenoid (milligrams) per dry cell weight [DCW] (kilogram). After cultivating the  Methylomonas  astaxanthin or canthaxanthin-producing strains in 50 mL of BTZ medium, 20 mL of the culture was used for carotenoid extraction and 20 mL of the culture was used to determine DCW.  
     
    
    [0240]
      For the extraction of carotenoids, the cells were pelleted in a 50 mL polypropylene tube. Following the removable of the supernatant (growth medium), approximately 0.5 mL of 0.1 mm glass beads were added to the pellet. To this mixture, 1 mL of ethanol and 1.5 mL of dichloromethane was added and the mixture was vortexed for approximately two minutes (until the cells were broken). The cellular debris was removed by centrifugation at 8000 rpm for 10 minutes. The supernatant was transferred to a new 50 mL polypropylene tube and the extracted carotenoids were dried under nitrogen for approximately two hours (until all liquid had evaporated). The dried pellets were resuspended in 90 μL of chloroform plus 1910 μL of hexane. The solution was filtered using a 0.2 μm Teflon filter (Pall Gelman Acrodisc 13 CR, PTFE syringe filter) to remove the large particles. The filtered carotenoid solution was analyzed via High Pressure Liquid Chromatography (HPLC).  
     
    
    [0241]
      To determine DCW for the  Methylomonas  carotenoid-producing strains, filtration was employed. Using the house vacuum, the cultures were applied to a 47 mm, 300 mL capacity, magnetic filter funnel (Pall Gelman, Ann Arbor, Mich.). A polypropylene separator [47 mm and 10.0 μm] (Pall Gelman, Ann Arbor, Mich.) was used in conjunction with a polycarbonate Whatman Nucleopore Track-Etch membrane [47 mm and 0.2 μm] (Whatman, Florham, N.J.) to collect the  Methylomonas  cells. The vacuum was applied until no visible liquid remained. The filter was allowed to dry over-night in a 55° C. oven. The DCW was calculated by subtracting the filter alone weight from the filter plus cells weight.  
     
    
    [0242]
      Several chromosomal insertions with the hsdM region were identified that support elevated levels of total carotenoid synthesis in  Methylomonas  (Table 5). Insertions into the hsdM region in strain MCIS 1807 resulted in an increase in carotenoid concentration of about a 2-fold increase over  Methylomonas  sp. Tig333 (a canthaxanthin producing strain; U.S. Ser. No. 11/070,080).  
           TABLE 5                         Summary of Various  Methylomonas  Strains, Transposon       Insertion Sites, and Total Carotenoid Titer.                           Total         Methylomonas     Carotenoid   Transposon   Genomic   Carotenoid       Strain   Transposon   Insertion Site   Location   Titer (ppm)                   MCIS2602   Tn5-377   hsdM region   1190230   ˜500               (orfX)       MCIS1807   Tn5-334   hsdM region   1190927   ˜1300               (orfX)                 
 
   Example 7  
 Stability Analysis of Selected Carotenoid Transposon Insertion Mutants  
   
    
    [0243]
      In addition to identifying chromosomal locations that support increased total carotenoid titers, we also evaluated stability of several of the carotenoid transposon insertion strains using serial passages of bottle cultures. Analysis of the strains after 15-20 serial passages suggest that the majority of  Methylomonas  strains are stable under the conditions tested. Typically, less than one non-pigmented colony was detected at the 10 −7  dilution (Table 6).  
           TABLE 6                         Stability of the Identified Chromosomal       Insertion Sites in  Methylomonas               Methylomonas                 Strain   Number of Passages   Number of       (insertion site)   (20 mL bottles)   White Colonies (10 −7 )               MCIS1807 (hsdM region)   20   ˜1                 
 
     
    
    [0244]
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
