
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TECHNICAL FIELD 
   
    
    [0001]
     The present invention relates to an adenosine-high production  Paecilomyces hepiali  Cs4 strain isolated from  Cordyceps sinensis  and, more particularly, to a  Paecilomyces hepiali  strain which is isolated from wild  Cordyceps sinensis  collected from Tibet region in China and has a remarkably enhanced capacity to produce adenosine. 
   BACKGROUND ART 
   
    
    [0002]
     In general, some of ascomycete molds grow in insects which serve as a host. When certain conditions are met, the molds break through the insects to create fruiting bodies which are collectively called  cordyceps . Various  cordyceps  have been found depending on the types of insect as a host and the types of parasitic mold fungus. 
     
    
    [0003]
     As the  cordyceps  spp. fungus, it is known that there are hundreds of  cordyceps  species depending on strains and types of insect which serve as a host, such as  Cordyceps militaris  with silkworm pupa as a host,  Paecilomyces japonica, Cordyceps scarabaeicoia, Cordyceps mutans, Cordyceps sobolifera, Cordyceps sinensis , etc. Out of the species,  Cordyceps sinensis , in which swift moth larva serves as a host, has been known to have the most excellent medical effect from a long time ago. 
     
    
    [0004]
     The  Cordyceps sinensis  is collected from the high mountains of Tibet and Chinghai regions in China, Nepal and like places, and is so valuable that  Cordyceps sinensis  has been treated as one of the three traditional medicinal herbs in China. 
     
    
    [0005]
     In China, however, the collection of  Cordyceps sinensis  is extremely restricted due to concerns about the destruction of natural ecology. As heavy metals such as arsenic have been recently round in natural  cordyceps , there concerns about the food safety of naturally collected  cordyceps.    
     
    
    [0006]
     The  Cordyceps sinensis  is produced in such a way that sexual and asexual spores or hyphae infect a swift moth larva, and in winter, the hyphae take nutrients in the body of the swift moth larva and grow, and the larva dies. In summer, the  Cordyceps sinensis  fungus develops, and fruiting bodies grow from a head of a host, penetrate the host, and have the shape of a baseball stick. 
     
    
    [0007]
     As shown in  FIG. 1 , the  Cordyceps sinensis  takes on a circular shape having a total length of about 10 cm and a diameter of about 0.5 cm. Initially, the  Cordyceps sinensis  is light green and turns into dark brown, and a head of the fruiting body is slightly bulging and has a cylindrical shape and an oval shape. 
     
    
    [0008]
     As the swift moth fungus, it is known that there are various fungi such as  Opiocordyceps sinensis, Paecilomyces hepiali, Lecanicillium , etc. 
     
    
    [0009]
     Meanwhile, is reported that the cord ceps contains various low-molecular substances such as polysaccharides, cordycepin, adenosine, lovastatin, ergosterol, various unsaturated fatty acids, etc., depending on types and thus contributes to the physiological activity of the human body (Lo et al. A. Systematic Review of the Mysterious Caterpillar Fungus Ophiocordyceps sinensis in Dong-ChongXiaCao ( Cordyceps ) and Related Bioactive Ingredients. J Tradit Complement Med, 2013, 3, 16-32). Besides, it is known that the  cordyceps  is efficacious in hepatitis, diabetes, tuberculosis, etc., and has various effects on improving blood circulation as a tonic, strengthening immune functions, etc. 
     
    
    [0010]
     However, various species of  cordyceps  such as  Cordyceps militaris, Paecilomyces japonica , etc., have been already successfully cultivated in an artificial way and have entered a stage of mass production. However, only  Cordyceps sinensis , which is known to have the most excellent efficacy, has failed to be artificially cultivated until now, and thus is still dependent solely on natural production. 
     
    
    [0011]
     This is because there is a problem with technique for isolating seeds and technique for culturing the isolated seeds. Thus, it is necessary to develop the above two techniques so that the  cordyceps  can be artificially mass-produced, raw materials can be stably supplied for commercialization, and products can be standardized. 
     
    
    [0012]
     Meanwhile, Korean Registered Patent No. 10-0415893 discloses a “method for isolating  Cordyceps sinensis  fungus,” and Korean Registered Patent No. 10-0459869 discloses a “method for culturing  Cordyceps sinensis  using a silkworm medium or a silkworm pupa medium” with regard to a method for culturing  Cordyceps sinensis  in a large quantity by using a silkworm or silkworm pupa as a host. However, there is no description about a  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain isolated from  Codyceps sinensis  according to the present invention, and a method for culturing the same. 
     
    
    [0013]
     In addition, the Chinese Food and Drug Administration particularly recognizes adenosine as an index material for indicating the efficacy of  cordyceps , but a culture method with an enhanced capacity to produce adenosine has not been described in the above-described related art. 
     
    
    [0014]
     Against this background, the present invention provides a culture method which isolates a  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain from  Cordyceps sinensis  collected from Tibet region in China, and has a remarkably enhanced capacity to produce adenosine, which is an index material for indicating the efficacy of  cordyceps.    
   DISCLOSURE 
 Technical Problem 
   
    
    [0015]
     The present invention is derived from the above needs, and an object of the present invention is to provide a  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain which is isolated from wild  Cordyceps sinensis  collected from Tibet region in China and has a remarkably enhanced capacity to produce adenosine. 
   Technical Solution 
   
    
    [0016]
     To solve the above problem, the present invention provides a  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain [accession number: KCTC 13285BP], which is isolated from wild  Cordyceps sinensis  collected from Tibet region in China. 
     
    
    [0017]
     In the present invention, the strain may have an enhanced capacity to produce adenosine. 
     
    
    [0018]
     In the present invention, the strain may be cultured in a pupa medium. 
   Advantageous Effects 
   
    
    [0019]
     According to an embodiment of the present invention, it may be possible to secure a  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain which has a remarkably enhanced capacity to produce adenosine, which is an index material for indicating an efficacy of  cordyceps , compared to a wild strain. 
     
    
    [0020]
     In addition, it may be possible to produce adenosine with a high concentration and in a large quantity, in which adenosine is an index material for indicating the efficacy of  cordyceps  and an ingredient effective in strengthen immunity, preventing aging, and improving the heart/liver. 
     
    
    [0021]
     According to the embodiments of the present invention, the effects are not limited to the content exemplified above, and more various effects are included in the present specification. 
   
 DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS 
   
    
    [0022]
       FIG. 1  is a view showing a picture (left) of  Cordyceps sinensis  collected and a picture (right) in which a  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain isolated from  Cordyceps sinensis  is cultured in a culture plate. 
     
    
    [0023]
       FIG. 2  an image (nos. 1 to 4 and 7 of isolated fungi, no. 5 of  Codyceps militaris  fungus, and no. 6 of  Cordyceps cicadae  fungus) showing RAPD results for sorting  Cordyceps sinensis  molds according to the present invention. 
     
    
    [0024]
       FIG. 3  is a graph showing a comparison of adenosine production capacity among  Cordyceps sinensis  strains isolated according to the present invention. 
     
    
    [0025]
       FIG. 4  is an image showing a comparison of ITS sequences among  Cordyceps sinensis  strains isolated. 
     
    
    [0026]
       FIG. 5  is a graph showing results of investigating an adenosine production capacity of  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain of the present invention with various materials as a medium. 
     
    
    [0027]
       FIG. 6  is a graph showing cross-breeding using haploid fungi derived from  cordyceps  spores. 
     
    
    [0028]
       FIG. 7  is a graph showing results of analyzing an adenosine content of  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strains under each culture condition according to the present invention. 
   
 BEST MODE 
   
    
    [0029]
     Hereinafter, preferred embodiments of the present invention will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. 
     
    
    [0030]
     According to one embodiment of the present invention, a  Cordyceps sinensis  strain is a strain belonging to  Paecilomyces hepiali , and has been deposited to the Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology under the name of  Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 as of Jun. 13, 2017, and given the accession number KCTC 13285BP. 
     
    
    [0031]
     The above  Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 strain may have an adenosine production capacity of 180 mg/100 g medium when cultured in a pupa medium. 
     
    
    [0032]
     However, the culture of the strain is not limited to the types of medium, and may be also cultured in a brown rice medium, a brown rice+silkworm powder medium, etc. 
     
    
    [0033]
     The above-described adenosine is an index material for indicating an efficacy of  cordyceps  and is known to have a considerable efficacy on strengthening immunity, preventing aging, and improving the heart/liver. 
     
    
    [0034]
     The present invention may provide a  cordyceps  extract according to another embodiment. 
     
    
    [0035]
     The above  cordyceps  extract may be an extract of the  Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 strain, contain adenosine as an effective ingredient, and further contain amino acids, vitamin precursors, mannitol and/or the like. 
     
    
    [0036]
     The above-described  cordyceps  extract may refer to not only a product obtained by extracting an effective ingredient from the  Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 strain, but also a product obtained by purifying or processing the  Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 strain per se or a part thereof. 
     
    
    [0037]
     In order to obtain the above-described  cordyceps extract , it may be possible to use a conventional method for extracting an extract from a natural product in the art. Specifically, an extract of the  Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 strain can be obtained according to a method of using a conventional extraction solvent under conventional temperature and pressure conditions. As an extraction solvent, it may be possible to use solvents generally used in an extraction process, such as water, anhydrous or water-containing lower alcohol having 1 to carbon atoms, acetone, ethyl acetate, butyl acetate, dichloromethane, 1,3-butylene glycol, etc. 
     
    
    [0038]
     The present invention may provide health functional foods, health supplement foods, health foods, cosmetics, drug medicines, quasi-drugs and like, which contain the  cordyceps  extract according to another embodiment. 
     
    
    [0039]
     The health functional foods, health supplement foods, health foods, cosmetics, drug medicines and quasi-drugs containing the above-described  cordyceps  extract may further contain ingredients which are sitologically, cosmetically or pharmaceutically acceptable. 
     
    
    [0040]
     The above-described sitologically acceptable ingredients may include, for example, proteins, carbohydrates, fats, nutrients, seasoning agents and the like. Specifically, the carbohydrates may include, in particular, monosaccharides (glucose, fructose, etc.), disaccharides (maltose, sucrose, etc.), oligosaccharides, polysaccharides (dextrin, cyclodextrin, and sugar alcohols (xylitol, sorbitol, erythritol, and natural flavoring agents (taumatin, stevia extract, etc.) and synthetic flavoring agents (saccharin, aspartame, etc.) as a flavoring agent. 
     
    
    [0041]
     The above-described cosmetically or pharmaceutically acceptable ingredients may include, for example, carriers, binders, glidants, disintegrants, excipients, solubilizers, stabilizers, bases, lubricants, preservatives, humectants, emulsifiers, suspending agents, viscosity controlling agents, antiseptics, surfactants, antioxidants, moisturizers, fragrances, pigments and the like. 
     
    
    [0042]
     In addition, the drug medicines and quasi drugs containing the above-described  cordyceps  extract may be formulated into a preparation by using a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and/or excipient according to a method easily practicable by those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains, and thus may be prepared in a unit dose form or prepared by being inserted into a multi-dose container. 
     
    
    [0043]
     In this case, a dosage form may be in a form of solution, suspension or emulsion in an oil or aqueous medium, or may be in a form of extract, powder, granule, tablet or capsule, and may further contain dispersing agents or stabilizing agents. 
     
    
    [0044]
     Hereinafter, experimental examples will be described in detail with regard to isolation of the above  Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 strain, a culture method, and investigation of adenosine production capacity. 
   Example 1: Isolation and Culture of Strains According to the Present Invention 
 Isolation of Fungus Strains from Wild  Cordyceps sinensis    
   
    
    [0045]
     Wild  Cordyceps sinensis , which was collected from Chinghai region in China as shown in  FIG. 1 , was washed with 70% ethanol, after which the washed  cordyceps  was cut and the resulting internal tissue was cut into pieces in a size of 0.1 to 0.3 cm, and cultured in a PDA medium (including  ampicillin  100 mg/ ) at, a temperature of 18° C. for one week or longer. 
     
    
    [0046]
     Then, the fungi growing through a cultured period were transferred to a new PDA medium for pure culture, so that a total of five types of fungus were isolated therefrom. 
   Example 2: Sorting of Molds Isolated from  Cordyceps sinensis  and Investigation of Adenosine Production Capacity 
 Sorting of Molds Isolated from  Cordyceps sinensis    
   
    
    [0047]
     An experiment was conducted to confirm whether the isolated fungi are the same as or different from each other by using an RAPD method. For this purpose, chromosomal DNA was first extracted from the hyphae of each fungus, after which the extracted chromosomal DNA was isolated by using an genomic plant DNA extraction kit (intron Biotech). 
     
    
    [0048]
     Then, 0.1 mM of OP S1 (CTACTGCGCT) , OPS10 (GTCGTTCCTG) primers, 10   of 2X PCR premix (Intron Biotech) and 8   of distilled water were respectively added into 1   of mold DNA isolated as above, after which a PCR reaction was performed. 
     
    
    [0049]
     PCR was repeated 35 times under the condition of heating at 94° C. for 10 minutes, heating at 94° C. for 45 seconds, heating at 48° C. for 30 seconds, and heating at 72° C. for one minute, after which the PCR product was confirmed through electrophoresis with 1% agarose gel. As a result, it was confirmed that strain nos. 1 to 4 and 7 are isolated fungi, strain no. 5 s Codyceps militaris, and strain no. 6 is Codyceps cicadae, as shown in  FIG. 2 , and it was judged that among the strains corresponding to the isolated fungi, the strain no. 2 and the strain no. 3 are the same fungi and the strain no. 4 and the strain no. 7 are the same fungi. 
     
    
    [0050]
     Thus, a total of three kinds of mold (strains nos. 1, and 4) were isolated. 
   Investigation of Adenosine Production Capacity of Each Isolated Strain 
   
    
    [0051]
     The adenosine production capacity of each strain isolated as above was investigated. 
     
    
    [0052]
     For this purpose, each of the isolated strains (nos. 1, 2 and 4) was cultured in a PDB medium for one week while being maintained at 20° C., after which a content of adenosine produced was compared. As shown  FIG. 3 , among the isolated strains, the strain no. 4 had the highest content of adenosine, and the strain no. 7, which was identified as a strain of the same species by the RAPD, had the production capacity that corresponds to about 80% of the strain no. 4, and the remaining three strains showed a significant decrease in adenosine production capacity. 
   Example 3: Identification of Fungi Isolated from  Cordyceps    
   
    
    [0053]
     Through the above experiment, an internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequence was determined for the strain no. 4 among the fungus strains isolated from  Cordyceps sinensis.    
     
    
    [0054]
     As a result of comparing the sequence determined in the strain no. 4 with the sequences of the existing  cordyceps  fungi, it was found that the strain isolated through the present invention is consistent with the  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 strain. 
     
    
    [0055]
     Accordingly, the above-described strain no. 4 was named as  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 YC1-4 according to the present invention. 
   Example 4: Study on Culture Conditions of  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 YC1-4 According to the Present Invention 
   
    
    [0056]
     To figure out the optical culture conditions for  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 YC1-4 (hereinafter, “YC1-4”), which is the strain isolated from  Cordyceps sinensis  according to the present invention, the adenosine production capacity of YC1-4 strain obtained from the present invention was investigated in eight medium materials. 
     
    
    [0057]
     For this purpose, eight kinds of medium material such as soybeans, pupae,  black beans  1,  black beans  2, kidney beans, peanuts, cashew nuts, and rice were prepared, after which 50 g of each medium material was washed with water, and sterilized with the addition of 30 ml of water. The YC1-4 strain according to the present invention, which had been incubated in a PDB medium for one week, was inoculated in an amount of 3   into each of sterilized medium materials. 
     
    
    [0058]
     After inoculating the YC1-4 strain of the present invention into each of the above medium materials, the culture was carried out at 23° C. for 20 days under a dark condition. After the culture was finished, a sample was collected under each of the culture conditions to analyze an adenosine content. 
     
    
    [0059]
     As a result, as shown in  FIG. 5 , a largest amount of adenosine was produced from the pupae among the eight medium materials. 
     
    
    [0060]
     Through the above experiment, the pupa was the most excellent medium material for the production of adenosine. Thus, the capacity to produce adenosine was investigated in the pupa medium as shown in  FIG. 1 , and was further investigated in brown rice and brown rice+silkworm powder media. 
     
    
    [0061]
     The medium was prepared by the same manner as above, and the YC1-4 fungi of the present invention were inoculated and incubated for 20 days under the condition of (1) light, (2) dark, (3) alternately light for 12 hours and dark for 12 hours, etc. 
     
    
    [0062]
     
 
 
     
    
    [0063]
     
 
 
     
    
    [0064]
       FIG. 1 . Shape of  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 YC1-4 (abbreviation: YC1-4) strain of the present invention after 10-day culture 
     
    
    [0065]
     After the culture was completed as described above, a content of adenosine in each. sample was analyzed by HPLC, and the analysis results and overall results were shown in  FIGS. 6 and 7 , respectively. 
     
    
    [0066]
     According to  FIGS. 6 and 7 , the highest capacity to produce adenosine was shown in the pupa medium incubated under the light condition, and an amount of adenosine production reached 180 mg/100 g medium under this condition. 
     
    
    [0067]
     The general adenosine production capacity of  Cordyceps sinensis  fungi, such as  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 or  Opiocordyceps sinensis , is merely about 0.3-0.5 mg/g medium. 
     
    
    [0068]
     However, in the present invention, it is found that the adenosine production capacity of  Paecilomyces hepiali  CS4 YC1-4 strain, which is newly isolated through the optimization of medium conditions, reaches 180 mg/100 g medium. Thus, it can be confirmed that the adenosine production capacity thereof is remarkably enhanced compared to the existing  Cordyceps sinensis  strain. 
   Certificate of Deposit of Microorganism 
 Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure 
 International Form 
 Receipt in the Case of an Original Deposit 
 Issued Pursuant to Article 7.1 
 To: Lee Won-Jae 
   
    
    [0069]
     Address: 18-2, Hyoja-ro 9-gil, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea 
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 I. Identification of the microorganisms 
 
 
 
 
 Identification reference given by  
 Accession number given by 
 
 
 the depositor:  
 International Depository Authority: 
 
 
   Paecilomyces hepiali  YC1-4 
 KCTC 13285BP 
 
 
 
 
 II. Scientific description and/or proposed taxonomic designation 
 
 
 The microorganisms identified under I above was accompanied by: 
 
 
 [ ] a scientific description 
 
 
 [ ] a proposed taxonomic designation 
 
 
 (Mark with a cross where applicable) 
 
 
 III. Receipt and Acceptance 
 
 
 This International DepositoryAuthority accepts the microorganism  
 
 
 under I above, which was received by it on Jun. 13, 2017. 
 
 
 IV. Receipt of request for conversion 
 
 
 The microorganism identified under I above was received by this 
 
 
 International DepositoryAuthority and a request to convert the original 
 
 
 deposit to a deposit under the Budapest Treaty was received by it on the 
 
 
 same date.  
 
 
 V. International Depository Authority 
 
 
 
 
 Name: Korean Cell Line Bank 
 Signature(s) by person(s) having the 
 
 
 Address: Korea Research Institute  
 power to represent the International 
 
 
 of Bioscience and Biotechnology 
 Depository Authority or of authorized 
 
 
 (KRIBB) 181, Ipsin-gil, 
 official(s): 
 
 
 Jeongeup-si, 
 Director Kim Cha-Yeong 
 
 
 Jeollabuk-do, Korea 
 Jun. 19, 2017 
 
 
   
 
 
 The content of the translated text is not different from that of the original text. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
