
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RELATED APPLICATIONS 
 The present application is a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 07/972,387, filed Nov. 5, 1992, U.S. Pat. No. 5,451,659 presently allowed. 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 This invention relates to a novel polypeptide, a DNA fragment containing the novel polypeptide, a vector containing the novel DNA fragment, a transformant capable of producing the novel polypeptide, a process for producing the novel polypeptide, a drug composition containing the novel polypeptide as an effective ingredient and a protease inhibition process in which the novel polypeptide is used. 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 As it is universally known, various proteases including trypsin and chymotrypsin exist in the body. While these proteases take important roles in the body such as digestion, defense mechanism, blood coagulation and fibrinolysis and the like, it has been revealed by previous studies that they also cause diseases and troubles directly or indirectly. Shock, pancreatitis, disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome (DIC) and the like are known as typical diseases which are caused by abnormal activation of proteases. 
 Various types of protease inhibitors have been used with the aim of treating such protease-related diseases. The protease inhibitors so far used as pharmaceutical drugs for the treatment of these diseases are divided into two groups, namely chemically synthesized compounds and natural substances. In most cases, chemically synthesized compounds are applicable to oral administration and have a broad enzyme inhibition spectrum, while each of the natural substances inhibits each own specific protease and is possessed of other functions than its enzyme inhibition function, such as a cell growth enhancing activity and the like. 
 The inhibition spectrum of each natural protease inhibitor is closely related to the kinds and sequence of amino acids at its active center. For example, trypsin-type enzymes are inhibited by a protease inhibitor when the amino acid at a principal position P 1  of the active center of the protease inhibitor is Lys or Arg. Chymotrypsin-type enzymes are inhibited when the P 1  amino acid is Phe or Tyr and elastase-type enzymes are inhibited when the P 1  amino acid is Ala, Ser or Val (Laskowski M., Jr., Biochem. Pharmacol., vol. 29, pp. 2089-2094, 1980). In consequence, it is assumed that the inhibition spectrum of a natural protease inhibitor can be changed by substituting an amino acid which constitutes an element of the active center of the inhibitor. Such an approach has already been applied to several natural protease inhibitors. For example, Brinkmann et al. have reported that chymotrypsin inhibition activity of aprotinin was improved when positions P 1  and P' 2  of the active center of aprotinin were substituted by a hydrophobic amino acid such as Phe, Tyr, Leu or the like (Thomas Brinkmann et al., Eur. J. Biochem., vol.202, pp.95-99, 1991). In addition, Fritz et al. have prepared a substance by substituting an amino acid of the active center of Bikunins (HI-30) by another amino acid, and have measured its elastase- and trypsin-inhibiting activities (Japanese Patent Application Kokai No. 3-255099, 1991; European Patent EP401508, 1990). 
 Since changes in the properties of a protease inhibitor caused by such an amino acid substitution exert influence not only upon its enzyme inhibition spectrum but also upon its route of administration, pharmacological function and the like, it is important to develop various types of protease inhibitors having such new characteristics for use in the treatment of diseases and to use the new inhibitors according to the conditions of each disease to be treated. 
 Meanwhile, the present inventors have found for the first time that the polypeptide represented by the amino acid sequence of  formula  1 is a polypeptide having an activity of inhibiting activated blood coagulation factor X (to be referred to as "FXa" hereinafter) (Japanese Patent Application No. 03-325220), The amino acid sequence of this polypeptide coincides with a part of the amino acid sequence of urinary trypsin inhibitor (UTI) or Bikunins (HI-30). However, the polypeptide represented by the amino acid sequence of  formula  1 is clearly different from UTI or HI-30, because the polypeptide of  formula  1 has a high FXa-inhibiting activity while the latter two peptides hardly show such an activity. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 In view of the above, it therefore becomes an object of the present invention to provide a novel polypeptide as a protease inhibitor having new characteristics as described above. Another object of the present invention is to provide a DNA fragment having a nucleotide sequence which encodes the novel polypeptide, a vector containing the DNA fragment, a transformant transformed with the DNA fragment or with the vector containing the DNA fragment and a process for producing the novel polypeptide. A further object of the present invention is to provide a drug composition containing the novel polypeptide as an effective ingredient and a protease inhibition process in which the novel polypeptide is used. 
 With the aim of overcoming the aforementioned problems involved in the prior art, the inventors of the present invention have conducted intensive studies on the development of a new protease inhibitor by introducing a mutation into a polypeptide which comprises an amino acid sequence represented by the following  formula  1. As a result, the present inventors have succeeded in obtaining a novel polypeptide having new characteristics by substituting an amino acid at a specific position in the above amino acid sequence by another amino acid, the specific position being one which could not be predicted from the information so far available. 
 In other words, the inventors of the present invention have succeeded in developing a novel polypeptide having new characteristics unknown in the prior art by substituting an amino acid at a specific position by another amino acid, at a position which is different from the active center reported by Wachter et al. and by Sailer (Wachter et al., Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chem., vol.360, pp.1297-1303, 1979; and Jean-Philippe Sailer, TIBS, vol.15, pp.435-439, 1990). ##STR2## 
 According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a novel polypeptide which contains, at least as a part thereof, an amino acid sequence resulting from substitution of an amino acid for at least one amino acid in the aforementioned amino acid sequence represented by  formula  1. 
 Substitution means 
 (i) Substitution of  position  15 Gln counting from the N-terminus by an amino acid other than Gln. 
 (ii) Substitution of position 42 Tyr counting from the N-terminus by an amino acid other than Tyr. 
 (iii) Substitution of  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus by an amino acid other than Arg. 
 According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a novel DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence which encodes the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. 
 According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a vector which contains the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. 
 According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a transformant which is transformed with the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. 
 According to a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a transformant which is transformed with the vector of the third aspect of the present invention. 
 According to a sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for producing the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, which comprises the following order of steps of: 
 (a) preparing a DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence which encodes the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, 
 (b) isolating a transformant by transforming a host cell with the DNA fragment prepared in the above step (a), and 
 (c) culturing the transformant obtained in the above step b) thereby allowing the transformant to produce the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention and subsequently recovering said polypeptide from cultured medium. 
 According to a seventh aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for producing the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, which comprises the following order of steps of: 
 (a) preparing a DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence which encodes the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, 
 (b) preparing a vector which contains the DNA fragment obtained in the above step (a), 
 (c) isolating a transformant by transforming a host cell with the vector obtained in the above step b), and 
 (d) culturing the transformant obtained in the above step c) thereby allowing it to produce the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention and subsequently recovering said polypeptide from cultured medium. 
 According to an eighth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a drug composition which contains the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention as an active ingredient. 
 According to a ninth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a protease inhibition process which comprises using the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
 FIG. 1 shows the nucleotide sequences of oligonucleotides S33, S34, S35, S18, S19 and S20 (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 44-49). 
 FIG. 2 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM468. 
 FIG. 3 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM469. 
 FIG. 4 shows plasmid pM552. 
 FIG. 5 shows a nucleotide sequence of Y46E primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 50). 
 FIG. 6 shows a nucleotide sequence of a ScaI sense primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 51). 
 FIG. 7 shows a nucleotide sequence of a BamHI primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 52). 
 FIG. 8 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM575B. 
 FIG. 9 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM575B from its HindIII site to BamHi site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 1,2). 
 FIG. 10 shows a nucleotide sequence of oligomer TV12DD (SEQ. I.D. NO. 53). 
 FIG. 11 shows a nucleotide sequence of a HindIII primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 54). 
 FIG. 12 shows a nucleotide sequence of the Q19K primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 55). 
 FIG. 13 shows a nucleotide sequence of a pBR BamHI primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 56). 
 FIG. 14 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM558. 
 FIG. 15 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM576. 
 FIG. 16 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM576 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 3,4). 
 FIG. 17 shows a nucleotide sequence of the AN68 primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 57). 
 FIG. 18 shows a nucleotide sequence of a SacII primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 58). FIG. 19 shows a nucleotide sequence of the Q19R primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 59). 
 FIG. 20 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM594. 
 FIG. 21 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM735. 
 FIG. 22 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM735 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 5,6). 
 FIG. 23 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM736. 
 FIG. 24 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM736 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 7,8). 
 FIG. 25 shows a nucleotide sequence of the R11E primer. 
 FIG. 26 is a graph showing a process for the construction of plasmid pM726B. 
 FIG. 27 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM726B from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 9,10). 
 FIG. 28 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM575C. 
 FIG. 29 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM575C from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 11,12). 
 FIG. 30 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM576B. 
 FIG. 31 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM576B from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 13,14). 
 FIG. 32 shows a process for the construction of plasmid pM737B. 
 FIG. 33 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM737B from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 15,16). 
 FIG. 34 shows showing a nucleotide sequence of Linker 710 (SEQ. I.D. NO. 61). 
 FIG. 35 shows a nucleotide sequence of the Y46D primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 62). 
 FIG. 36 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM727 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 17,18). 
 FIG. 37 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM744 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 19,20). 
 FIG. 38 shows a nucleotide sequence of the R11Q primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 63). 
 FIG. 39 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM741 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 21,22). 
 FIG. 40 shows a nucleotide sequence of the R11D primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 64). 
 FIG. 41 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM742 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 23,24). 
 FIG. 42 shows a nucleotide sequence of the R11L primer (SEQ. I.D. NO. 65). 
 FIG. 43 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM743 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 25,26). 
 FIG. 44 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM738 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 27,28). 
 FIG. 45 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptide Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 46 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptide Q19K of the present invention. 
 FIG. 47 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptide Q19R of the present invention. 
 FIG. 48 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptide Q19K/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 49 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptide R11E/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 50 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptide Q19R/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 51 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19K/Y46D and Q19R/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 52 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11D/Q19K/Y46D and R11L/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 53 presents data showing the human FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptide R11E/Q19K/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 54 presents data showing the human leukocyte elastase-inhibiting activity of polypeptide R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11D/Q19K/Y46D and R11L/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 55 presents data showing the human leukocyte elastase-inhibiting activity of polypeptide R11E/Q19K/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 56 shows a nucleotide sequence of the R11N primer. 
 FIG. 57 shows a nucleotide sequence of the R11S primer. 
 FIG. 58 shows a nucleotide sequence of the R11A primer. 
 FIG. 59 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM764 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 29,30). 
 FIG. 60 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM765 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 33,34). 
 FIG. 61 shows a nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM767 from its HindIII site to BamHI site, and a corresponding amino acid sequence. 
 FIG. 62 presents data showing the trypsin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19K, Y46E and Q19K/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 63 presents data showing trypsin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19R/Y46E, Q19R/Y46D and Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 64 presents data showing trypsin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11L/Q19K/Y46D and R11D/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 65 presents data showing trypsin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11S/Q19K/Y46D, R11N/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 66 presents data showing FXa-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11S/Q19K/Y46D, R11N/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 67 presents data showing human leukocyte elastase-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19K, Y46E and Q19K/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 68 presents data showing human leukocyte elastase-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19R/Y46E, Q19R/Y46D and Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 69 presents data showing human leukocyte elastase-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11S/Q19K/Y46D, R11N/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 70 presents data showing plasmin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19K, Y46E and Q19K/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 71 presents data showing plasmin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19R/Y46E, Q19R/Y46D and Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 72 presents data showing plasmin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11L/Q19K/Y46D and R11D/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 73 presents data showing plasmin-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11S/Q19K/Y46D, R11N/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 74 presents data showing human plasma kallikrein-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19K, Y46E and Q19K/Y46E of the present invention. 
 FIG. 75 presents data showing human plasma kallikrein-inhibiting activity of polypeptides Q19R/Y46E, Q19R/Y46D and Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 76 presents data showing human plasma kallikrein-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D and R11L/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 FIG. 77 presents data showing human plasma kallikrein-inhibiting activity of polypeptides R11S/Q19K/Y46D, R11N/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION 
 The following describes the present invention in detail. 
 The novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention is characterized in that it contains, at least as a part thereof, an amino acid sequence resulting from substitution of an amino acid for at least one amino acid in the aforementioned amino acid sequence represented by  formula  1. 
 The term "a polypeptide containing an amino acid sequence as a part thereof" as used herein means that, when a polypeptide is defined by its primary structure, the polypeptide may be defined either by the amino acid sequence itself or by an amino acid sequence in which the N-terminus, the C-terminus or both termini of the former amino acid sequence are supplemented with one or more optional amino acids. Polypeptide-defining elements other than the primary structure, such as the presence of a sugar chain and the like, are not particularly limited. 
 Preferably, substitution of an amino acid may be effected at least at  position  7,  position  15 or position 42 of the amino acid sequence of the  aforementioned formula  1, counting from its N-terminus. In other words, an amino acid sequence to be used at least as a part of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention may be derived from the amino acid sequence of  formula  1 by substituting only Arg at  position  7 of the sequence by another amino acid, only Gln at  position  15 by another amino acid or only Tyr at position 42 by another amino acid, counting from the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence. Also, at least two of the  position  7 Arg,  position  15 Gln and position 42 Tyr may be substituted simultaneously by other amino acids. In addition to these substitutions, one or more other amino acids at different positions may be substituted by optional amino acids. 
 Preferably, the substitution of the amino acids may at least increase the activity to inhibit protease or improve the secretion of the polypeptide from host cells, when the polypeptide is produced by recombinant DNA techniques, in comparison with the original polypeptide prior to the amino acid substitution. 
 More preferably, the substitution of the amino acids may be effective for improving at least one property of the polypeptide selected from the group consisting of; 
 (i) increasing the FXa inhibitory activity of the polypeptide, 
 (ii) improving the secretion amount from a transformant when the polypeptide is produced by recombinant DNA techniques, and 
 (iii) increasing the elastase inhibitory activity of the polypeptide. 
 Substitution of the  position  15 Gln or position 42 Tyr by another amino acid is effective for changing the protease inhibitory activities of a polypeptide which contains the amino acid sequence of  formula  1, especially for changing its activities to inhibit at least FXa or trypsin. In addition, substitution of the  position  7 Arg by another amino acid is effective for changing its protease inhibitory activity, especially at least elastase. 
 Substitution of the  position  7 Arg by another amino acid is effective for easy secretion of the resulting polypeptide from host cells when the polypeptide is produced by recombinant DNA techniques. 
 When at least two of the  position  7,  position  15 and position 42 amino acids are substituted simultaneously by other amino acids, it is possible to obtain additive effects of the employed substitutions. 
 The polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention may preferably contain, at least as a part thereof, an amino acid sequence resulting from at least one substitution in the amino acid sequence of  formula  1, which is selected from the following substitutions (1) to (11); 
 (1) substitution of Lys for the  position  15 Gln counting from the N-terminus, 
 (2) substitution of Arg for the  position  15 Gln counting from the N-terminus, 
 (3) substitution of Glu for the position 42 Tyr counting from the N-terminus, 
 (4) substitution of Asp for the position 42 Tyr counting from the N-terminus, 
 (5) substitution of Glu for the  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus, 
 (6) substitution of Gln for the  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus, 
 (7) substitution of Asp for the  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus, 
 (8) substitution of Leu for the  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus, 
 (9) substitution of Asn for the  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus, 
 (10) substitution of Ser for the  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus, and 
 (11) substitution of Ala for the  position  7 Arg counting from the N-terminus. 
 Aforementioned effects of the substitution of at least one amino acid in the amino acid sequence of  formula  1 on the properties of the resulting polypeptide can also be found when the N-terminus, the C-terminus or both termini of the  formula  1 sequence are supplemented with one or more optional amino acids. In consequence, the novel polypeptide of the present invention may contain, at least as a part thereof, an amino acid sequence in which the N-terminus, the C-terminus or both termini of the amino acid sequence resulting from substitution of at least one amino acid in the amino acid sequence of  formula  1 by another amino acid are further modified by addition of one or more optional amino acids. The kinds and numbers of amino acids to be added are not particularly limited, provided that the characteristic nature of the novel polypeptide of the present invention is not spoiled completely by the amino acid addition. 
 A preferred amino acid sequence to be added to the N-terminus may be selected from the following sequences (1) to (5); 
 (1) Asp Asp Ala Ala (SEQ. I.D. NO. 69), 
 (2) Thr Val Ala Ala (SEQ. I.D. NO. 71), 
 (3) Val Ala Ala, 
 (4) Ala Ala, and 
 (5) Ala. 
 A derivative of each of the above amino acid sequences (1) to (5) may also be used as an amino acid sequence to be added to the N-terminus, such as a derivative in which at least one amino acid in any of the amino acid sequences (1) to (5) is substituted by another optional amino acid, a derivative in which at least one optional amino acid is added to or deleted from any of the amino acid sequences (1) to (5) or a derivative in which such substitution, addition and deletion are effected simultaneously in any of the amino acid sequences (1) to (5). These added sequences are useful when the novel polypeptide is produced using an Escherichia coli. Particularly, the sequence (1) is effective when the novel polypeptide is expressed and secreted using Escherichia coli. 
 A preferred amino acid sequence to be added to the C-terminus may be selected from the following sequences (1) to (15); 
 (1) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu Glu Leu Leu Arg Phe Ser Asn (SEQ. I.D. NO. 73), 
 (2) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu Glu Leu Leu Arg Phe Ser, 
 (3) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu Glu Leu Leu Arg Phe, 
 (4) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu Glu Leu Leu Arg, 
 (5) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu Glu Leu Leu, 
 (6) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu Glu Leu, 
 (7) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu Glu, 
 (8) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Glu, 
 (9) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp, 
 (10) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp Gly, 
 (11) Gly Val Pro Gly Asp, 
 (12) Gly Val Pro Gly, 
 (13) Gly Val Pro, 
 (14) Gly Val, and 
 (15) Gly. 
 A derivative of each of the above amino acid sequences (1) to (15) may also be used as an amino acid sequence to be added to the C-terminus side, such as a derivative in which at least one amino acid in any of the amino acid sequences (1) to (15) is substituted by another optional amino acid, a derivative in which at least one optional amino acid is added to or deleted from any of the amino acid sequences (1) to (15) or a derivative in which such substitution, addition and deletion are effected simultaneously in any of the amino acid sequences (1) to (15). These sequences are useful when the novel polypeptide is produced using an Escherichia coli strain. 
 It goes without saying that the above-mentioned preferred amino acid sequences may be added to either the N-terminus, the C-terminus or both of the N- and C-termini. 
 Most preferred examples of the amino acid sequence of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention are shown in the SEQUENCE LISTING attached hereto as Sequence ID Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 and 43. These are preferable from a viewpoint of various effects described in the Examples in addition to an improved FXa-inhibiting activity. 
 The novel polypeptide according to the first aspect of the present invention may have a sugar chain. 
 Recent advance in the technology has rendered possible application of various chemical modifications to polypeptides, such as alkylation, oxidation, reduction, hydrolysis and the like. Also, formation of a salt with a pharmacologically acceptable acid or base and linkage of polyethylene glycol or the like to a polypeptide from a DDS (drug delivery system) point of view are usually used techniques. In consequence, polypeptides to which such modifications are applied are also included in the novel polypeptide of the present invention. 
 Preferably, the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention may have at least a protease inhibition activity as one of its characteristic properties. The protease inhibition activity may preferably be at least one of inhibiting FXa, elastase, trypsin, plasma kallikrein and plasmin. 
 The novel polypeptide according to the first aspect of the present invention may be obtained by any means. For instance, it may be obtained by chemical synthesis using a peptide synthesizer (for example, model 431 manufactured by Applied Biosystems). It may be obtained also by known recombinant DNA techniques disclosed for instance by T. Maniatis et al. in Molecular Cloning, a laboratory manual (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1982), using a DNA fragment which encodes the novel polypeptide of the present invention. A preferred example of the production of the novel polypeptide of the present invention by means of recombinant DNA techniques will be described later in relation to the sixth and seventh aspect of the present invention. 
 Next, the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention is described. 
 The novel DNA fragment of the present invention contains, at least as a part thereof, a nucleotide sequence which encodes the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. In other words, the novel DNA fragment of the present invention is characterized in that it comprises a nucleotide sequence which encodes a polypeptide that contains, at least as a part thereof, an amino acid sequence resulting from substitution of an amino acid for at least one amino acid in the aforementioned amino acid sequence of  formula  1. The term "a DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence as a part thereof" as used herein means that the DNA fragment may be defined either by the nucleotide sequence itself or by a nucleotide sequence in which the 5' end, the 3' end or both ends of the former nucleotide sequence is or are supplemented with one or more optional nucleotides. The novel DNA fragment of the present invention may have any nucleotide sequence, provided that the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention is produced in appropriate host cells which have been transformed with the DNA fragment by an appropriate means. Since a degeneracy of codons exists corresponding to one amino acid, the nucleotide sequence which encodes the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention is not limited to a single kind and, therefore, the nucleotide sequence of the novel DNA fragment of the present invention is also not limited to a single kind. However, a nucleotide sequence which encodes the aforementioned amino acid sequence of  formula  1 may preferably have the following formula 2 (SEQ. I.D. NO. 66). ##STR3## 
 Preferably, the novel DNA fragment of the present invention is a DNA fragment which contains, at least as a part thereof, a nucleotide sequence in which one or more nucleotides in the nucleotide sequence of the above formula 2 are substituted by other nucleotides selected from adenine (A), guanine (G), thymidine (T) and cytosine (C). 
 When the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention is taken into consideration, it is preferable to effect the nucleotide substitution in the aforementioned formula 2 at  positions  19 to 21, at positions 43 to 45 or at positions 124 to 126 of the nucleotide sequence, counting from the 5' end of the formula 2 nucleotide sequence. In other words, in the nucleotide sequence which is contained at least as a part of the novel DNA fragment the second aspect of the present invention, the nucleotide substitution by other nucleotides may be effected only at the  position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG, at a position 43 to 45 nucleotide sequence CAG or at the position 124 to 126 nucleotide sequence TAC, counting from the 5' end of the nucleotide sequence of formula 2. Also, the nucleotide substitution may be effected by other nucleotides in at least two of these positions. In addition to these nucleotide sequence substitutions, one or more other nucleotides at different positions may be substituted by optional nucleotides. 
 The  aforementioned position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG which encodes Arg may be substituted by an optional nucleotide sequence, preferably by a nucleotide sequence that encodes Glu, Gln, Asp, Leu, Asn, Ser or Ala. The position 43 to 45 nucleotide sequence CAG which encodes Gln may be substituted by an optional nucleotide sequence, preferably by a nucleotide sequence that encodes Lys or Arg. The position 124 to 126 nucleotide sequence TAC which encodes Tyr may be substituted by an optional nucleotide sequence, preferably by a nucleotide sequence that encodes Glu or Asp. 
 More preferably, the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention may contain, at least as a part thereof, a derivative of the nucleotide sequence of formula 2 resulting from at least one substitution selected from the following substitutions (1) to (11); 
 (1) substitution of AAG for the position 43 to 45 nucleotide sequence CAG counting from the 5' end, 
 (2) substitution of CGT for the position 43 to 45 nucleotide sequence CAG counting from the 5' end, 
 (3) substitution of GAA for the position 124 to 126 nucleotide sequence TAC counting from the 5' end, 
 (4) substitution of GAC for the position 124 to 126 nucleotide sequence TAC counting from the 5' end, 
 (5) substitution of GAA for the  position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG counting from the 5' end, 
 (6) substitution of CAG for the 19 to 21 position nucleotide sequence CGG counting from the 5' end, 
 (7) substitution of GAT for the  position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG counting from the 5' end, 
 (8) substitution of CTG for the  position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG counting from the 5' end, 
 (9) substitution of AAC for the  position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG counting from the 5' end, 
 (10) substitution of AGC for the  position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG counting from the 5' end, and 
 (11) substitution of GCG for the  position  19 to 21 nucleotide sequence CGG counting from the 5' end. 
 The DNA fragment of the present invention may contain, at least as a part thereof, a nucleotide sequence in which one or more optional nucleotides are added to its 5' end, 3' end or both ends of the nucleotide sequence resulting from the substitution of at least one nucleotide in the nucleotide sequence of formula 2. The kinds and numbers of the nucleotides to be added are not limited, provided that the finally obtained DNA fragment contains a nucleotide sequence which encodes the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. For example, the 5' end may be supplemented with an initiation codon, a promoter, a ribosome binding region, a signal peptide-encoding sequence or the like, and the 3' end may be supplemented with a termination codon. In addition, a nucleotide sequence which is recognized by an appropriate restriction enzyme may be added to the 5' end and/or the 3' end, or a nucleotide sequence which encodes other polypeptide may be added to the 5' end and/or the 3' end with the aim of producing the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention in the form of a protein fused with another polypeptide. 
 Preferred examples of the nucleotide sequence to be added to the 5' end include those which encode the amino acid sequences described as "preferred amino acid sequences to be added to the N-terminus" in the foregoing description about the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, or which encode derivatives of these amino acid sequences resulting from deletion, addition, substitution and the like of one or more amino acids. Any nucleotide sequence which encodes such an amino acid sequence may be added to the 5' end as a preferred example, but a more preferred example may be selected from the following sequences (1) to (5). 
 (1) GAC GAC GCC GCC (SEQ. I.D. NO. 68) 
 (2) ACC GTC GCC GCC (SEQ. I.D. NO. 70) 
 (3) GTC GCC GCC 
 (4) GCC GCC 
 (5) GCC 
 Preferred examples of the nucleotide sequence to be added to the 3' end include those which encode the amino acid sequences described as "preferred amino acid sequences to be added to the C-terminus" in the foregoing description about the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, or which encode derivatives of these amino acid sequences resulting from deletion, addition, substitution and the like of one or more amino acids. Any nucleotide sequence which encodes such an amino acid sequence may be added to the 3' end as a preferred example, but a more preferred illustrative example may be selected from the following sequences (1) to (15); 
 (1) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG GAG CTG CTG CGC TTC TCC AAC (SEQ. I.D. NO. 72), 
 (2) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG GAG CTG CTG CGC TTC TCC, 
 (3) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG GAG CTG CTG CGC TTC, 
 (4) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG GAG CTG CTG CGC, 
 (5) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG GAG CTG CTG, 
 (6) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG GAG CTG, 
 (7) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG GAG, 
 (8) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAG, 
 (9) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT GAT, 
 (10) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT GGT, 
 (11) GGT GTC CCT GGT GAT, 
 (12) GGT GTC CCT GGT, 
 (13) GGT GTC CCT, 
 (14) GGT GTC, and 
 (15) GGT. 
 It goes without saying that the above-mentioned preferred DNA sequences may be added to each 5' end, 3' end or both ends of 5' and 3' ends. 
 Most preferred examples of the nucleotide sequence of the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention are shown in the SEQUENCE LISTING attached hereto as Sequence ID Nos. 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31 and 33. These are preferable as a DNA fragment which encodes the most preferable polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention from a viewpoint of various effects described in Examples in addition to an improved FXa-inhibiting activity. These are also preferable. 
 The novel DNA fragment of the present invention may be obtained by any means. For instance, it may be obtained by chemical synthesis or by recombinant DNA techniques. Chemical synthesis of the novel DNA fragment of the present invention may be effected, for example, in the following manner. First, a desired nucleotide sequence is designed and the thus designed DNA fragment is divided into appropriately sized small fragments. An oligomer which corresponds to each of the thus divided fragments is synthesized using an fully automatic DNA synthesizer (for example, model 394 manufactured by Applied Biosystems). The thus synthesized oligomer is subjected to annealing. If necessary, 5'-end phosphorylation is carried out using T4 polynucleotide kinase prior to the annealing step. Thereafter, the thus annealed fragments are subjected, if necessary, to ligation with T4 DNA ligase, and then cloned into an appropriate vector. 
 When the novel DNA fragment of the present invention is prepared by means of recombinant DNA techniques, it may be effected by nucleotide sequence modification and DNA amplification making use of an appropriate cDNA library, a chromosomal DNA library or a DNA fragment which encodes the amino acid sequence of  formula  1, in accordance with usually used techniques such as site-directed mutagenesis (Kramer, W. et al., Nucleic Acid Res., vol.12, pp.9441-9456. 1984; Kunkel, T. A. et al., Methods in Enzymology, vol.1.154, pp.367-382, 1987) and polymerase chain reaction (to be refereed "PCR" hereinafter) (PCR Protocols, A Guide to Methods and Applications, edited by Michakl, A. I. et al., Academic Press, 1990). 
 A cDNA library or a chromosomal DNA library to be used may be chosen from commercially available articles, or prepared from appropriate tissues or cells according to usually used means (cf. Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, edited by T. Maniatis et al., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1982). A DNA fragment which encodes the amino acid sequence of  formula  1 may be obtained not only by chemical synthesis but also from an appropriate DNA library optionally making use of known recombinant DNA techniques such as hybridization (cf. Wallace, R. B. et al., Nucleic Acid Res., vol.9, pp.879-894, 1981). 
 On the basis of the disclosure of the novel DNA fragment of the present invention, its complementary DNA fragments and RNA fragments can also be obtained. 
 The DNA fragment of the present invention may also include linkage to such a complementary DNA or RNA fragment. 
 According to the third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a vector which contains the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. 
 In addition to the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention, the vector of the present invention may further contain additional nucleotide sequences such as a promoter, a ribosome binding region, a signal peptide-encoding sequence, a selection marker sequence and the like, as well as a sequence which is used to amplify copy number of the DNA of interest. The vector of the present invention may be used for any purpose. For example, it may be used as an expression vector or as a cloning vector. 
 Vectors for expression use generally have a promoter, an optional ribosome binding region and other such sequences which are necessary for the expression of genes. In the vector of the present invention, these necessary sequences are used by selecting them in such a way that they can function in host cells to be transformed with the vector. When a polypeptide expressed in the cells of a transformant is secreted outside the cells, a vector may generally contain a nucleotide sequence which encodes a signal peptide in addition to the above necessary sequences. 
 In consequence, when the vector of the third aspect of the present invention is used as an expression vector, it may contain not only the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention but also these nucleotide sequences necessary for expression and, if required, a nucleotide sequence which encodes a signal peptide. 
 The vector of the third aspect of the present invention may be obtained by inserting the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention into an appropriate commercially available or known vector in accordance with usually used means (cf. Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, edited by T. Maniatis et al., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1982). The origin of the vector to be used for the insertion of the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention is not particularly limited. Such a vector may be selected from various virus vectors, plasmid vectors, phage vectors and the like, such as pUC118, pBR322, pEFN-BOS, λgt10, pKK223-3, YAC, Baculovirus vector and the like. If necessary, optional nucleotide sequences such as a ribosome binding region, a selection marker sequence and the like may be synthesized chemically and inserted together with the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. Alternatively, the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention may be inserted into a commercially available vector which already contains these desired nucleotide sequences. 
 A most preferred vector of the present invention is a plasmid vector which contains at least a tryptophan promoter, a kanamycin or ampicillin resistant gene and the DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. 
 According to the fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a transformant transformed with the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. A transformant which can produce the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention is preferable as the transformant of the fourth aspect of the present invention. Either a transformant which secretes the polypeptide outside the cell or which accumulates the polypeptide in the cell is preferable as the transformant of the fourth aspect of the present invention. 
 The transformant of the fourth aspect of the present invention may be obtained by introducing the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention into appropriate host cells in accordance with a usually used means such as a calcium chloride technique, a method in which a calcium phosphate-DNA complex is used, a microinjection technique, electroporation or the like. 
 Preferably, in addition to a nucleotide sequence encoding the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention to be used for the preparation of the transformant may contain additional nucleotide sequences which encode a promoter, a ribosome binding region and the like that are necessary for the expression of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. If necessary, the DNA fragment to be used may contain a nucleotide sequence which encodes a signal peptide in addition to other necessary nucleotide sequences for the expression of the polypeptide. These promoter, ribosome binding region, signal peptide-encoding sequences and the like may be of various origins, provided that they can function in the host cells to be used. 
 Most cells to be used for the insertion of the novel DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention are not strictly limited, provided that they are suitable for use in the expression of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. Such suitable host cells may be selected from either eukaryotic cells such as HeLa cells, Namalwa cells, COS cells, CHO cells, yeast cells, SF cells and the like or prokaryotic cells such as E. coli cells, Bacillus subtilis cells and the like. 
 According to the fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a transformant transformed with the vector of the third aspect of the present invention. A transformant which can produce the novel polypeptide of the present invention is preferable as the transformant of the fifth aspect of the present invention. Either a transformant which secretes the polypeptide outside the cell or which accumulates the polypeptide in the cell is preferable as the transformant of the fifth aspect of the present invention. 
 The transformant of the fifth aspect of the present invention is obtained by transforming an appropriate host cells with the vector of the third aspect of the present invention by a usually used means such as a calcium chloride technique, a rubidium chloride technique, Hanahan's method (Hanahan, D., Techniques for Transformation of E. coli; in DNA Cloning, vol.1, Glover, D. M. (ed.), pp.109-136, IRL Press, 1985) or the like. 
 Host cells to be used for the transformation by the vector of the third aspect of the present invention are not strictly limited, provided that they are suitable for use in the expression of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. Such suitable host cells may be selected from either eukaryotic cells such as HeLa cells, Namalwa cells, COS cells, CHO cells, yeast cells, SF cells and the like or prokaryotic cells such as E. coli cells, B. subtilis cells and the like. 
 As it is universally known, a host cell and a vector function mutually. Taking this into consideration, it is preferable to obtain the inventive transformant by selecting an appropriate origin of the vector, a nucleotide sequence necessary for expression in the vector and an appropriate host in such a combination that the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention can be expressed efficiently. 
 Illustrative examples of the combination of expression vector with host cells include: an expression vector containing the early promoter gene of simian virus 40 (SV40) with COS-7 cells; and an expression vector originated from plasmid pBR322 containing nucleotide sequences which encode a tryptophan promoter and a tryptophan SD sequence with E. coli HB101 cells. 
 As will be described later in Examples, the present inventors have prepared E. coli JE5505 transformants transformed with the vector of the third aspect of the present invention. These transformants have been deposited by the present inventors in the Patent Microorganisms Depositary Center of Fermentation Research Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology (1-1-1, Higashi, Yatabe-cho, Tsukuba-gun, Ibaraki, Japan). The following shows deposition numbers and names of these transformants. 
 
   ______________________________________                                    
Date deposited                                                            
            Deposition No.                                                
                        Name                                              
______________________________________                                    
September 11, 1990                                                        
            FERM P-11726                                                  
                        E. coli JE5505 (pM552)                            
September 10, 1991                                                        
            FERM BP-3561                                                  
            (transferred from                                             
            FERM P-11726)                                                 
July 16, 1991                                                             
            FERM P-12357                                                  
                        E. coli JE5505 (pM575B)                           
October 17, 1991                                                          
            FERM BP-3613                                                  
            (transferred from                                             
            FERM P-12357)                                                 
July 16, 1991                                                             
            FERM P-12358                                                  
                        E. coli JE5505 (pM576)                            
October 17, 1991                                                          
            FERM BP-3614                                                  
            (transferred from                                             
            FERM P-12358)                                                 
May 1, 1992 FERM P-12945                                                  
                        E. coli JE5505 (pM735)                            
May 1, 1992 FERM P-12946                                                  
                        E. coli JE5505 (pM736)                            
October 21, 1992                                                          
            FERM BP-4041                                                  
                        E. coli JE5505 (pM741)                            
______________________________________                                    
 
 The following describes sixth and seventh aspects of the present invention, concerning processes suitable for the production of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, to which recombinant DNA techniques are applied. 
 According to the sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for the production of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention which comprises the steps of: 
 a) preparing a DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence which encodes the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, 
 b) preparing a transformant by transforming host cells with the DNA fragment obtained in the above step a), and 
 c) culturing the transformant obtained in the above step b) to allow the transformant to produce the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention and subsequently recovering said polypeptide from the cultured medium. 
 In the above step a), the term "a DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence which encodes the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention" preferably means a DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. Preferably, this DNA fragment may further contain a nucleotide sequence which is necessary for the expression of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, in addition to a nucleotide sequence that encodes said novel polypeptide. If necessary, said DNA fragment may also contain a nucleotide sequence which encodes a signal peptide. 
 The transformant obtained in the above step b) belongs preferably to the transformant of the fourth aspect of the present invention, and it can therefore be obtained by the process described in the foregoing in relation to the fourth aspect of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained transformant in the above step b) is used in the subsequent step c). Culturing of the transformant may be effected by generally used means for the culturing of microorganisms or mammalian cells, in accordance with the procedure disclosed for instance in Seibutsu Kagaku Kogaku (or Biochemical Engineering; S. Aiba et al., 1976, Tokyo University Press) or in Soshiki Baiyo (or Tissue Culture; J. Nakai et al., 1976, Asakura Shoten). Next, the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention thus produced by the transformant is recovered from the cultured medium of said transformant. In this instance, the thus produced novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention may be isolated preferably from the cultured cells of the transformant when the product is not secreted extracellularly, or from culture supernatant when secreted into the medium. Purification and recovery of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention from a cultured broth containing said polypeptide may be carried out in the light of various generally used means for the purification of polypeptides which have been disclosed in many reports and books such as Seikagaku Jikken Koza (or Biochemical Experiments; vol. I, Protein Chemistry, 1976, edited by The Japanese Biochemical Society, Tokyo Kagaku Dojin). When the polypeptide of the present invention forms an inclusion body inside the transformant cells, it is preferably to carry out solubilization, denaturation and refolding in its purification (cf. Thomas E. Creighton, J. Mol. Biol., vol.87, pp.563-577, 1974). 
 Examples of protein purification techniques include ammonium sulfate precipitation, ultrafiltration, isoelectric precipitation, gel filtration, ion exchange chromatography, various affinity chromatographic techniques such as hydrophobic chromatography, antibody chromatography and the like, chromatofocusing, absorption chromatography and reverse phase chromatography. Consequently, recovery and purification of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention may be carried out by selecting suitable ones from these techniques and, if necessary, making use of an HPLC system and the like, in appropriate order of the techniques. 
 According to the seventh aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for the production of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention which comprises the steps of: 
 a) preparing a DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence which encodes the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, 
 b) constructing a vector containing the DNA fragment obtained in the above step a) 
 c) preparing a transformant by transforming host cells with the vector obtained in the above step b), and 
 d) culturing the transformant obtained in the above step c) to allow the transformant to produce the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention and subsequently recovering said polypeptide from the cultured medium. 
 In the above step a), the term "a DNA fragment containing a nucleotide sequence which encodes the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention" preferably means a DNA fragment of the second aspect of the present invention. 
 The vector obtained in the above step b) is preferably the vector of the third aspect of the present invention. More preferably, the vector obtained in the above step b) is a vector which further contains a nucleotide sequence necessary for the expression of the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention, in addition to a nucleotide sequence that encodes said polypeptide. If necessary, said vector may also contain a nucleotide sequence which encodes a signal peptide. A process for the construction of such a vector has already been described in the foregoing in relation to the third aspect of the present invention. 
 The transformant thus obtained in the above step c) belongs preferably to the transformant of the fifth aspect of the present invention, and it can therefore be obtained by the process described in the foregoing in relation to the fifth aspect of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained transformant in the above step c) is used in the subsequent step d). Processes for the culturing of the transformant and subsequent recovery and purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from the cultured medium are the same as those described in the foregoing in relation to the sixth aspect of the present invention. 
 Thus, processes for the production of the novel polypeptide have been described with respect to the sixth and seventh aspects of the present invention. In the practice of these processes, a DNA fragment which contains a fused nucleotide sequence consisting of a nucleotide sequence coding for the polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention and another nucleotide sequence encoding another polypeptide (E. coli β-galactosidase for example) or a part thereof may be used as the DNA fragment that contains a nucleotide sequence encoding the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. In such an instance, a transformant transformed with said DNA fragment or with a vector prepared therefrom will produce a fused polypeptide consisting of the novel polypeptide of the present invention and another polypeptide (E. coli β-galactosidase for example). In that case, it is possible to obtain the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention by recovering said fused polypeptide and then treating it with appropriate chemical compounds, enzymes and the like to cut out and remove the additional polypeptide portion, followed by purification if necessary. 
 Next, the drug composition of the eighth aspect of the present invention is described. 
 The drug composition provided by the present invention contains the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention as an active ingredient. A single polypeptide or a plurality of polypeptides may be contained in the drug composition, provided that they belong to the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. 
 Though it is possible to provide the medical field with a fully effective drug composition of the present invention even if the drug composition of the eighth aspect of the present invention is composed solely of the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention (for example, an article of the polypeptide processed through pharmaceutically necessary steps such as lyophilizing, sterile filtration and the like), the drug composition may further contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary components in a pharmaceutically acceptable amount. 
 Such auxiliary components to be included in the drug composition of the present invention are a base, a stabilizer, an antiseptic agent, a preservation agent, an emulsifying agent, a suspending agent, a solvent, a solubilizing agent, a lubricant, a corrective agent, a coloring agent, an aromatic agent, a soothing agent, an excipient, a binder, a thickening agent, a buffer and the like. Illustrative examples of these auxiliary components include calcium carbonate, lactose, sucrose, sorbitol, mannitol, starch, amylopectin, cellulose derivatives, gelatin, cacao butter, distilled water for injection use, sodium chloride solution, Ringer solution, glucose solution, human serum albumin (HSA) and the like. Of these components, gelatin and albumin are especially useful as protein stabilizers. The auxiliary components to be added to the drug composition of the present invention may be selected in the light of "A List of Pharmaceutical Additives" (published by the Committee on Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, Tokyo Drug Industry Association and the Committee on Pharmaceutical Affairs Law Research, Osaka Drug Association) and decided depending on the dosage form and the like of the drug composition. 
 Dosage forms of the drug composition of the present invention are not particularly limited and can be selected according to each application purpose from, for example, injections, tablets, capsules, pills, granules, suppositories, solutions, suspensions, emulsions, powders, ointments, creams, gels, cataplasmas, lotions and the like. 
 Dose of the drug composition of the present invention may vary depending on the content of active ingredient and conditions, age, sex, weight and the like of each patient to be treated. Preferably, however, the drug composition of the present invention may be administered in an amount of from 0.1 to 1,000 mg/kg, more preferably from 0.2 to 50 mg/kg, most preferably from 0.2 to 20 mg/kg, as the amount of the active agent. The drug composition of the present invention can be administered by various means depending on the conditions of each patient, such as oral administration, intramuscular injection, intraperitoneal injection, intradermal injection, subcutaneous injection, intravenous injection, intraarterial administration, rectal administration, vaginal administration and the like, as well as airway inhalation of the drug composition making it into an aerosol dosage form, buccal dissolution, percutaneous absorption, mucosal absorption and the like, of which intravenous injection is particularly preferred. 
 Diseases and symptoms which may be prevented and/or treated by making use of the drug composition of the present invention include infestation, multiple organ failure, shock, pancreatitis, disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome, ischemic heart disease, nephritis, hepatic cirrhosis, re-obstruction at the time of blood circulation reconstructive operation, edema caused by increased vascular permeability, adult respiratory distress syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, arthritis, allergic diseases and the like. Diseases and symptoms related to the alternative complement pathway may be prevented and/or treated by making use of the drug composition of the present invention. 
 As other preferable examples, the drug composition of the present invention may be used to prevent and/or treat diseases related to at least one protease selected from the group consisting of trypsin, elastase, plasma kallikrein, FXa and plasmin. 
 As other preferable examples, the drug composition of the present invention may be used to prevent and/or treat diseases related to the alternative pathway of complements. 
 Application of the drug composition of the present invention is not limited to the prevention and/or treatment of specific diseases. It can be used suitably as a blood coagulation inhibitor. Also, in addition to its direct administration to the body, the inventive drug composition can be used for the purpose of preventing blood coagulation, by binding and adsorbing it to the surface of medical devices such as artificial blood vessels, artificial organs, catheters and the like, making use of a cross linking agent and the like. 
 Next, the ninth aspect of the present invention is described. 
 The protease inhibition process of the ninth aspect of the present invention is characterized in that it uses the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. More particularly, the ninth aspect of the present invention is a process for inhibiting the activity of a protease which comprises allowing the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention to react with said protease. 
 The protease to be inhibited in the protease inhibition process of the present invention is not particularly limited and may be a single protease or a plurality of proteases, provided that they are sensitive to the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. However, at least one protease, especially trypsin, FXa, elastase, plasma kallikrein, or plasmin, may be used preferably as the protease to be inhibited. 
 In the protease inhibition process of the present invention, a protease and the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention are allowed to react with each other under appropriate reaction conditions such as temperature, pH, time and the like, thereby effecting inhibition of the protease activity. The reaction may be carried out in a test tube or the like (in vitro) or in the body of an animal (in vivo, ex vivo). If necessary, the reaction may be carried out in the presence of other substances, drugs and the like in addition to the novel polypeptide of the first aspect of the present invention. The novel polypeptide to be applied to the enzyme inhibition process of the present invention may be used in the form of a composition containing auxiliary components and the like. 
 EXAMPLES 
 Examples of the present invention are given below by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. Abbreviations used herein are based on idiomatic expressions. Experiments were carried out in the light of the following reports and books. 
 1. Laboratory Manual of Genetic Engineering; M. Muramatsu, 1989, Maruzen 
 2. Gene Manipulation Techniques; Y. Takagi, 1980, Kodansha 
 3. Gene Manipulation Manual; Y. Takagi, 1980, Kodansha 
 4. Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual; T. Maniatis et al., 1982, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 
 5. Methods in Enzymology; vol.65, L. Grossman, 1980, Academic Press 
 6. Methods in Enzymology; vol.68, R. Wu, 1979, Academic Press 
 7. PCR Protocols, A Guide to Methods and Applications; Michadel, A. I. et al., 1990, Academic Press 
 8. Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual (second edition); T. Maniatis et al., 1989, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 
 Example 1 Construction of plasmid pM469 
 Plasmid pM469 to be used later in Example 2 as an expression vector was prepared from plasmid pM463 in the following method. Plasmid pM463 used herein as the starting material is a derivative of plasmid pBR322, which contains a nucleotide sequence for replication in E. coli cells, an ampicillin resistance gene, a tryptophan promoter, a nucleotide sequence coding for an alkaline phosphatase signal peptide and a nucleotide sequence encoding a human pancreatic secretion trypsin inhibitor (to be referred to as "PSTI" hereinafter) (Kanamori, T. et al., Gene, vol.66, pp.295-300, 1988). 
 First, plasmid pM463 was double-digested with restriction endonucleases HindIII and NruI and the resulting mixture of DNA fragments was separated by 0.7% agarose gel electrophoresis. A DNA fragment of about 3.4 kb thus isolated by the electrophoresis was absorbed to diethylaminoethyl cellulose paper (to be referred to as "DEAE cellulose paper" hereinafter) and then extracted with a high concentration salt solution (2M NaCl/10 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5)/1 mM EDTA) to recover the DNA fragment of about 3.4 kb. 
 Separately from this, a linker consisting of an Shine-Delgarno (SD) sequence, a nucleotide sequence encoding an E. coli alkaline phosphatase signal peptide and a nucleotide sequence encoding a part of the N-terminal side amino acid sequence of PSTI was divided into six designed fragments (SEQ. I.D. NOS. 44-49). Each of the thus designed fragments was synthesized using a chemical synthesizer (381A, Applied Biosystems, Inc.) (cf. FIG. 1). Of these 6 fragments thus synthesized, S34, S35, S18 and S19 were subjected to 5'-end phosphorylation with T4 polynucleotide kinase (Takara Shuzo Co., Ltd.) in the presence of ATP. Subsequently, each of the combinations of S33 with phosphorylated S34, phosphorylated S35 with phosphorylated S18 and phosphorylated S19 with S20 was subjected to annealing, followed by their ligation making use of a DNA ligation kit (Takara Shuzo Co., Ltd.). The thus ligated sample was then applied to 8% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to separate and extract a DNA fragment (linker 1) of about 100 bp which was subsequently purified by phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. The thus obtained DNA fragment of about 100 bp and the aforementioned DNA fragment of about 3.4 kb were ligated, and E. coli HB101 was transformed with the thus ligated product to isolate an ampicillin-resistant colony as a transformant of interest. Plasmid DNA was prepared from the thus obtained transformant and named plasmid pM468 (cf. FIG. 2). 
 The thus obtained plasmid pM468 was double-digested with EcoRI and DraI, and a DNA fragment of about 2.4 kb was isolated and recovered using DEAE cellulose paper in the same manner as described above. Separately from this, plasmid pKC7 containing a kanamycin resistance gene (km r ) (Ngarajarao, R. et al., Gene, vol.7, pp.79-82, 1979) was double-digested with restriction endonucleases EcoRI and SmaI to prepare a DNA fragment of about 1.4 kb containing the kanamycin resistance gene. The thus obtained DNA fragment of about 1.4 kb and the aforementioned DNA fragment of about 2.4 kb were ligated, and E. coli HB101 was transformed with the thus ligated product to isolate a kanamycin-resistant colony as a transformant of interest. Plasmid DNA was prepared from the thus obtained transformant and named plasmid pM469 (cf. FIG. 3). 
 Example 2 Production of polypeptide Y46E 
 A polypeptide, Y46E, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Glu for the position 42 Tyr of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following manner. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment 
 A DNA fragment encoding the polypeptide Y46E was prepared by means of site-directed mutagenesis (cf. Kunkel, T. A. et al., Methods in Enzymology, vol.154, p.367, 1987) using plasmid pM552 (cf. Japanese Patent Application No. 3-325220). The pM552 is a plasmid which has been constructed by inserting into plasmid pM469 a nucleotide sequence that encodes a polypeptide TN70 represented by the following amino acid sequence of  formula  3, that is, a DNA fragment (TN70 DNA) represented by the following nucleotide sequence of formula 4. The plasmid pM552 contains a tryptophan promoter, a nucleotide sequence coding for an alkaline phosphatase signal peptide and a kanamycin resistance gene (cf. FIG. 4). ##STR4## 
 First, plasmid pM552 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and the thus digested fragments were subjected to 1% agarose gel electrophoresis. A DNA fragment of about 310 bp containing the nucleotide sequence of formula 4 was extracted from the agarose gel and then purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. Using T4 DNA ligase (already described in the foregoing), the thus obtained DNA fragment of about 310 bp was ligated with a phage vector M13mp18 which had been double-digested with HindIII and BamHI in advance. Thereafter, the thus ligated product was transfected into E. coli JM109 cells (transfection) to obtain M13 phage. 
 Next, site-directed mutagenesis was carried out making use of a Mutan™-K kit (Takara Shuzo Co., Ltd.) and according to the manufacturer's instructions. That is, an E. coli strain BW313 (HfrKL16PO/45  lysA(61-62)!, dut1, ung1, thi-1, relA1), provided with the kit as an indicator strain, was infected with the M13 phage to obtain phage plaques. A single plaque was inoculated into 2×YT medium using the BW313 as an indicator strain and cultured at 37° C. for 6 hours. Thereafter, single stranded DNA (ssDNA) was extracted and purified from the resulting phage culture broth by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. Separately from this, Y46E primer (FIG. 5, SEQ. I.D. NO. 50) for mutagenesis use was synthesized using the aforementioned chemical synthesizer and purified using an OPC column (Applied Biosystems, Inc.), and the 5'-end of the thus purified oligomer Y46E was phosphorylated using T4 polynucleotide kinase and ATP. The thus phosphorylated oligomer was subjected to annealing with the just obtained ssDNA by incubating them at 65° C. for 15 minutes and then at 37° C. for 15 minutes. The resulting reaction mixture was then incubated at 25° C. for 2 hours in the presence of E. coli DNA ligase and T4 DNA polymerase attached to the Mutan™-K kit to synthesize a complementary chain. After terminating the reaction with EDTA, the resulting complementary chain was transfected into E. coli BMH 71-18 (mutS (Δ(lac-proAB), thi, supE, mutS215::Tn10(tet r )/F'(traD36, proAB lacI q , lacZΔM15)), provided with the kit, and phage plaques were obtained using JM109 as an indicator strain. Phage particles were recovered from each single plaque thus obtained and cultured using JM109 as an indicator strain to obtain a phage solution from which ssDNA was extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. Thereafter, nucleotide sequence of each ssDNA sample was determined using a DNA sequencer (370A, Applied Biosystems, Inc.) to select an ssDNA sample into which desired mutation had been introduced. 
 Next, PCR was carried out in the following method, using the thus obtained ssDNA as a template. That is, a ScaI primer (FIG. 6, SEQ. I.D. NO. 51) to be used as a sense primer and a BamHI primer (FIG. 7, SEQ. I.D. NO. 52) to be used as an antisense primer were synthesized using the aforementioned chemical synthesizer and then purified using the aforementioned OPC column. The thus obtained ScaI sense primer and BamHI antisense primer were added to a 100 μl solution containing the aforementioned ssDNA, and the resulting mixture was subjected to a PCR reaction using a Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit (Takara Shuzo Co., Ltd.) by repeating 30 cycles of the reaction. In this instance, each reaction cycle was effected by a series of incubation at 94° C. for 1 minute, 55° C. for 2 minutes and 72° C. for 3 minutes in that order. Thereafter, the DNA fragment of the present invention was purified from the resulting reaction mixture by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. 
 (2) Construction of expression vector 
 Plasmid pM469 obtained in Example 1 was double-digested with ScaI and BamHI, and the resulting DNA fragments were subjected to 0.7% low melting agarose gel electrophoresis. A DNA fragment of about 3.5 kb was purified from the agarose gel by cutting out a gel portion containing the fragment, melting the cut out gel portion at 65° C. and then treating the resulting solution with phenol, followed by ethanol precipitation. Next, the DNA fragment of the present invention obtained in the above procedure (1) was digested with BamHI and then ligated with the just obtained DNA fragment of about 3.5 kb to obtain an expression plasmid pM575B (cf. FIG. 8). 
 The thus obtained plasmid pM575B was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 310 bp was extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. The thus purified DNA fragment was ligated with each of the phage vectors M13mp18 and M13mp19 (Takara Shuzo Co., Ltd.) which had been double-digested with HindIII and BamHI in advance, and each of the ligated products was transfected into E. coli JM109 to form plaques. Thereafter, ssDNA was prepared from each of the resulting plaques and subjected to sequencing using a DNA sequencer (370A, Applied Biosystems, Inc.). The thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM575B from its HindIII site to BamHI site containing the DNA fragment of interest and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 9 (see SEQ. I.D. NO. 1 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM575B), was prepared by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM575B obtained in the above procedure (2) in accordance with the Hanahan's method (Hanahan D., Techniques for Transformation of E. coli; in DNA Cloning, vol.1, Glover, D. M. (ed.), pp.109-136, IRL Press, 1985). The thus prepared transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM575B), was cultured at 37° C. for about 8 hours in L-broth containing 50 μg/ml of kanamycin (first seed culture). The resulting culture broth was inoculated in about 100 volumes of the same medium and cultured overnight at 37° C. (second seed culture). The main culture was then carried out by inoculating the resulting culture broth in 50 volumes of M9CA medium containing 50 μg/ml of kanamycin and culturing at 37° C. for about 1 hour. After adding 3-β-indole acrylic acid (Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd.) to a final concentration of 10 μg/ml, the culturing was continued for additional 16 hours. Thereafter, a culture supernatant was obtained from the resulting culture broth by centrifugation. 
 The culture supernatant thus prepared was diluted with 0.1% BSA (bovine serum albumin)/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8) to predetermined concentrations, and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, the culture filtrate of a transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM553), was used as a control in the activity measurement. pM553 was obtained by deleting the aforementioned nucleotide sequence of formula 4 from plasmid pM552 to obtain a plasmid pM553 and by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the thus obtained plasmid pM553. 
 Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture filtrate of E. coli JE5505 (pM575B) in comparison with the control. The transformant E. coli JE5505 (pM575B) was deposited by the present inventors on Jul. 16, 1991, in Fermentation Research Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, and was assigned the designation as FERM P-12357 which was subsequently transferred to the International Depository Authority on Oct. 17, 1991, as FERM BP-3613. 
 (4) Purification of inventive polypeptide from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM575B) 
 The novel polypeptide of the present invention was recovered and purified in the following method from culture supernatant of the transformant E. coli JE5505 (pM575B) obtained in the above procedure (3). 
 (a) Ammonium Sulfate Precipitation 
 Ammonium sulfate was added to one liter of the culture supernatant to a level of 80% saturation. The mixture was stirred until the ammonium sulfate was completely dissolved and then the solution was allowed to stand overnight at 4° C. The sample was centrifuged at 12,000× g for 30 minutes at 4° C., and the thus obtained pellet was dissolved in 25 ml of distilled water. After removing insoluble precipitate by centrifugation, the supernatant was concentrated to 1 ml using an ultrafiltration membrane (molecular weight cutoff of 1,000; Diaflow membrane YM-1, Grace Company). Thereafter, the thus concentrated sample was centrifuged at 5,860× g for 10 minutes at 4° C. to recover supernatant. 
 (b) Gel filtration 
 The concentrated sample obtained in the above step (a) was applied to a column (1 cm.o slashed.×115 cm) packed with Sephadex G-50 (Pharmacia) which had been equilibrated with PBS -  (phosphate buffered saline). The loaded sample was eluted by PBS -  at a flow rate of 0.2 ml/min to obtain 2 ml fractions. 
 A portion of each fraction was collected and checked for its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). Thereafter, active fractions were pooled and dialyzed overnight at 4° C. against 20 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.5) using a dialysis membrane (molecular weight cutoff of 1,000; Spectrum Medical Industries, Inc.). 
 (c) Anion exchange chromatography 
 Anion exchange chromatography was carried out using an FPLC system (Pharmacia) by the following method. The dialyzed sample obtained in the above step (b) was applied to Mono Q column (5 mm.o slashed.×50 mm, Pharmacia) which had been equilibrated with 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.5). Elution was carried out at a flow rate of 1 ml/min with a linear gradient of 0 to 0.4M NaCl/20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.5)/48 min. Protein concentration in the eluent was monitored by absorbance at 280 nm and each protein peak was collected as a fraction. A portion of each collected fraction was checked for its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17 (1) and active fractions were pooled. 
 (d) Reverse phase chromatography 
 The active fraction pooled in the above step (c) was applied to a Vydac C18 column (4.6 mm.o slashed.×25.0 cm, The Separations Group) which had been equilibrated with 0.04% trifluoroacetic acid solution. Using a Waters 625 LC system (Waters Associates, Inc.), elution was carried out at a flow rate of 1 ml/min with a linear gradient of 0 to 100% acetonitrile/0.04% trifluoroacetic acid/30 min. Protein concentration in the eluent was monitored by absorbance at 280 nm and each protein peak was collected as a fraction. A portion of each fraction was checked for its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1) and active fractions were pooled. The pooled sample was dried under reduced pressure using a centrifugation vacuum concentrator (Tomy Seiko Co., Ltd.) to obtain a purified polypeptide sample. The purified polypeptide was used for the SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the following step (5), the amino acid sequence analysis in the step (6) and the activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (5) SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was subjected to SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (to be referred to as "SDS-PAGE" hereinafter) in accordance with Laemmli's method (Laemmli, U. K., Nature, vol.227, pp.680-685, 1970). That is, the purified polypeptide was dissolved in 100 μl of distilled water, and a portion of the solution was mixed with the same volume of Seprasol II (Daiichi Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.). The mixture was treated at 100° C. for 5 minutes and then electrophoresed on a 15% gel (8 cm×9 cm, 1 mm in thickness) at 15 mA for 50 minutes and then at 30 mA for 35 minutes. In this instance, a commercial molecular weight marker kit was used (Electrophoresis Calibration Kit, Pharmacia). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with a commercial silver staining kit (2D-Silver Staining Reagent II, Daiichi Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.). The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (6) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined using a Model 477A Protein Sequencing System 120A PTH Analyzer (Applied Biosystems Inc.). Identification of the amino acid sequence was determined by detecting PTH-amino acids at an absorbance of 270 nm, based on the retention time of standard PTH-amino acids (Applied Biosystems Inc.) which had been isolated in the same procedure. 
 As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was the polypeptide of interest Y46E (cf. amino acids 1-70 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 2 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 3 Production of polypeptide O19K 
 A polypeptide, Q19K, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Lys for the  position  15 Gln of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following manner. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment 
 Plasmid pM558 was derived from the aforementioned plasmid pM552 in the following manner. First, an oligomer TV12DD (FIG. 10, SEQ. I.D. NO. 53) for mutation introduction use was synthesized chemically. Next, ssDNA was prepared using M13 phage obtained in Example 2(1) from E. coli JM109, in the same manner as in Example 2(1) making use of the aforementioned Mutan™-K kit, and the desired mutation was introduced into the ssDNA using the TV12DD. Thereafter, PCR was carried out in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(1) using the thus mutation-introduced ssDNA as a template. In this instance, ScaI sense primer prepared in Example 2(1) was used as the sense primer and an M13 primer RV (Takara Shuzo Co., Ltd.) was used as the antisense primer. The thus obtained PCR product was digested with BamHI and inserted into plasmid pM469 in the same manner as in Example 2(2) to obtain plasmid pM558. 
 Site-directed mutagenesis was carried out by PCR, using the method of Landt et al. (Landt, O. et al., Gene, vol.96, pp.125-128, 1990), using the thus obtained plasmid pM558 as a template for PCR. First, a HindIII primer (FIG. 11, SEQ. I.D. NO. 53) and a Q19K primer (FIG. 12, SEQ. I.D. NO. 55) to be used respectively as a sense primer and an antisense primer in the first PCR were synthesized chemically. First PCR was carried out making use of the aforementioned Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit, using the thus synthesized sense and antisense primers and plasmid pM558 as a template and repeating 30 cycles of the reaction. In this instance, each reaction cycle was effected by a series of incubation at 94° C. for 1 minute, 55° C. for 2 minutes and 72° C. for 3 minutes in that order. A portion of the amplified product by the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 160 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified DNA fragment was dissolved in TE buffer. Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out in the same manner as the above first PCR using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as a sense primer and the plasmid pM558 as a template. In this instance, the pBR BamHI primer (FIG. 13, SEQ. I.D. NO. 56) prepared in Example 2-(2) obtained by chemical synthesis was used as an antisense primer. 
 A portion of the amplified product of the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 350 bp. The DNA fragment was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 (2) Construction of expression vector 
 The plasmid pM463 (Kanamori T. et al.) described in the foregoing was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and the thus digested mixture was subjected to 0.7% low melting agarose gel electrophoresis to obtain a DNA fragment of about 3.3 kb. Next, the DNA fragment of the present invention having a size of about 350 bp obtained in the above step (1) was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and the thus digested fragment was ligated with the just described DNA fragment of about 3.3 kb using the aforementioned T4 DNA ligase, thereby obtaining an expression plasmid pM576 (cf. FIGS. 14 and 15). 
 The thus obtained expression plasmid pM576 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 310 bp was extracted and purified. The thus purified DNA fragment of interest was ligated with each of the aforementioned phage vectors M13mp18 and M13mp19 which had been double-digested with HindIII and BamHI in advance, and the thus ligated product was transfected into E. coli JM109. Thereafter, ssDNA was prepared from each of the resulting plaques and subjected to sequencing using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. Thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM576 from its HindIII site to BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 16 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 3 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM576), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM576 obtained in the above procedure (2), in accordance with the Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 2(3) to recover culture supernatant, except that ampicillin was added to the culture medium to a final concentration of 50 μg/ml instead of kanamycin. 
 The culture supernatant was diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8), and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, culture supernatant of a transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM463C), was used as a control in the activity measurement. pM463C was obtained by deleting the polypeptide Q19K-encoding nucleotide sequence from plasmid pM576. 
 Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM576) in comparison with the control. The transformant E. coli JE5505 (pM576) was deposited by the present inventors on Jul. 16, 1991, in Fermentation Research Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, and was assigned the designation FERM P-12358 which was subsequently transferred to the International Depository Authority on Oct. 17, 1991, as FERM BP-3614. 
 (4) Purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM576) 
 The polypeptide of the present invention was purified from the culture supernatant obtained in the above procedure (3) by means of ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, anion exchange chromatography and reverse phase chromatography in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(4). The obtained purified sample was used for the following SDS-PAGE (5), amino acid analysis (6) and activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (5) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (6) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). 
 As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was the polypeptide Q19K of the present invention (cf. amino acids 1-70 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 4 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 4 Production of ol e tide 19R 
 A polypeptide, Q19R, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Arg for the  position  15 Gln of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment 
 Plasmid pM594 was derived from the aforementioned plasmid pM552 in the following procedure. First, an AN68 primer (FIG. 17, SEQ. I.D. NO. 57) was synthesized chemically. Using the aforementioned pM552 as a template, the thus synthesized AN68 primer as an antisense primer and the HindIII primer prepared in Example 3(1) as a sense primer, a first PCR was carried out in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1) making use of the aforementioned Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit. A portion of the amplified product of the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 130 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified DNA fragment was dissolved in TE buffer. 
 Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out in the same manner as the above first PCR using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as a sense primer and the plasmid pM552 as a template. In this instance, a pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) was used as an antisense primer. A portion of the amplified product by the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 350 bp. The DNA fragment was extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified fragment was digested with HindIII and BamHI to obtain a DNA fragment of about 300 bp. Thereafter, the thus obtained DNA fragment was inserted into plasmid pM463 in the same manner as in Example 3(2) to obtain plasmid pM594. 
 Next, site-directed mutagenesis was carried out by the method of Landt et al. in the following manner. First, a SacII primer (FIG. 18, SEQ. I.D. NO. 58) and a Q19R primer (FIG. 19, SEQ. I.D. NO. 59) were obtained by chemical synthesis to be used respectively as a sense primer and an antisense primer. A first PCR was carried out in the same manner as described above, using the thus synthesized sense and antisense primers and the aforementioned plasmid pM594 as a template. A portion of the amplified product (DNA fragment) of the first PCR was applied to 4% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 70 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified DNA fragment was dissolved in TE buffer. Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out in the same manner as the above first PCR using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as a sense primer and the plasmid pM594 as a template. In this instance, a pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) was used as an antisense primer. A portion of the amplified product of the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 260 bp. The DNA fragment was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 (2) Construction of expression vector 
 The plasmid pM594 was double-digested with SacII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 3.4 kb was extracted and purified from the digested sample. The thus purified DNA fragment was ligated with the DNA fragment of about 260 bp obtained in the above step (1) using the aforementioned T4 DNA ligase, thereby obtaining an E. coli expression plasmid pM735 (cf. FIGS. 20 and 21). The thus obtained plasmid pM735 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 300 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. 
 The thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM735 from its HindIII site to a BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 22 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 5 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM735), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM735 obtained in the above procedure (2), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3 
 (3) to recover culture supernatant. 
 The culture supernatant thus prepared was diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8), and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, culture supernatant of the transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM463C), prepared in Example 3(3) was used as a control in the activity measurement. Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM735) in comparison with the control. 
 The transformant E. coli JE5505 (pM735) was deposited by the present inventors on May 1, 1992, in Fermentation Research Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, and was assigned the designation FERM P-12945. 
 (4) Purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM735) 
 The polypeptide of the present invention was purified from the culture supernatant obtained in the above procedure (3) by means of ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, anion exchange chromatography and reverse phase chromatography in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(4). The thus obtained purified sample was used for the following SDS-PAGE (5), amino acid analysis (6) and activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (5) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (6) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). 
 It was thus confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) is the polypeptide Q19R of the present invention (cf. amino acids 1-68 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 6 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 5 Production of polypeptide Q19K/Y46E 
 A polypeptide, Q19K/Y46E, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Lys for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Glu for position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following manner. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment 
 A first PCR was carried out in the same manner as in Example 3(1), making use of the aforementioned Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit and using the HindIII primer and Q19K primer prepared in Example 3(1) as sense and antisense primers and the plasmid pM594 prepared in Example 4(1) as a template. A portion of the amplified product of the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 170 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified DNA fragment was dissolved in TE buffer. Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out in the same manner as the above first PCR using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as a sense primer and plasmid pM575B as a template. In this instance, a pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) was used as an antisense primer. A portion of the amplified product of the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 350 bp. The DNA fragment of the present invention was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. 
 (2) Construction of expression vector 
 The DNA fragment of the present invention obtained in the above step (1) was inserted into plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure of Example 3(2) to prepare an expression plasmid pM736 (cf. FIG. 23). The thus prepared plasmid pM736 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 300 bp was extracted and purified. The thus purified DNA fragment of interest was subjected to sequencing using the aforementioned DNA sequencer in the same manner as described in Example 2(2). The thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM736 from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 24 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 7 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM736), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM736 obtained in the above procedure (2). The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover culture supernatant. 
 The culture supernatant thus prepared was diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8), and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, culture supernatant of the transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM463C), prepared in Example 3(3) was used as a control in the activity measurement. Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM736) in comparison with the control. 
 The transformant E. coli JE5505 (pM736) was deposited by the present inventors on May 1, 1992, in Fermentation Research Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, and was assigned the designation FERM P-12946. 
 (4) Purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM736) 
 The polypeptide of the present invention was purified from the culture supernatant obtained in the above procedure (3) by means of ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, anion exchange chromatography and reverse phase chromatography in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(4). The thus purified polypeptide sample was used for the following SDS-PAGE (5), amino acid analysis (6) and activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (5) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (6) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). 
 As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) is the polypeptide Q19K/Y46E of the present invention (cf. amino acids 1-68 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 8 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 6 Production of polypeptide R11E/Y46E 
 A polypeptide, R11E/Y46E, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Glu for the  position  7 Arg, as well as Glu for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment 
 An R11E primer (FIG. 25, SEQ. I.D. NO. 60) was synthesized chemically to be used as an antisense primer. Using the antisense primer thus synthesized and the HindIII sense primer prepared in Example 3(1), a first PCR was carried out in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1), making use of the aforementioned Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit. In this instance, plasmid pM594 prepared in Example 4(1) was used as a template. A portion of the amplified product of the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm presence of a band of interest having a size of about 150 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the purified DNA was dissolved in TE buffer. Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out in the same manner as the above first PCR using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as a sense primer and the aforementioned plasmid pM575B as a template. In this instance, a pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) was used as an antisense primer. A portion of the amplified product of the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 350 bp. The DNA fragment was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 (2) Construction of expression vector 
 The DNA fragment of the present invention having a size of about 350 bp prepared in the above step (1) was inserted into plasmid pM463 in the same manner as in Example 3(2) to obtain an expression plasmid pM726B (cf. FIG. 26). The thus obtained expression plasmid pM726B was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 300 bp was extracted and purified. The thus purified DNA fragment of interest was subjected to sequencing using the aforementioned DNA sequencer in the same manner as in Example 2(2). 
 The thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM726B from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 27 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 9 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM726B), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM726B obtained in the above procedure (2), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover culture supernatant. 
 The culture supernatant thus prepared was diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8), and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, culture supernatant of the transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM463C), obtained in Example 3(3) was used as a control in the activity measurement. Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM726B) in comparison with the control. 
 (4) Purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM726B) 
 The polypeptide of the present invention was purified from the culture supernatant obtained in the above procedure (3) by means of ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, anion exchange chromatography and reverse phase chromatography in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(4). The purified polypeptide sample was used for the following SDS-PAGE (5), amino acid analysis (6) and activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (5) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (6) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). 
 As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) is the desired polypeptide R11E/Y46E of the present invention (cf. amino acids 1-68 of SEQ. I.D. No. 10 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 7 Production of polypeptide Y46E-AN 
 A polypeptide, Y46E-AN, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Glu for the position 42 Tyr of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following manner. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment and construction of expression vector 
 PCR was carried out in the same manner as in Example 3(1), making use of the aforementioned Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit and using the SacII primer prepared in Example 4(1) and the pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) as sense and antisense primers and the aforementioned plasmid pM575B as a template. A portion of the amplified product of the PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm presence of a single band of interest having a size of about 250 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified DNA fragment was digested with SacII and BamHI to obtain a DNA fragment of about 220 bp. The thus obtained DNA fragment of about 220 bp was ligated with a DNA fragment having a size of about 3.4 kb which had been prepared from plasmid pM594 by double-digesting it with SacII and BamHI, thereby obtaining an expression plasmid pM575C (cf. FIG. 28). The thus prepared plasmid pM575C was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 300 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, the thus purified DNA fragment was subjected to sequencing using the aforementioned DNA sequencer in the same manner as described in Example 2(2). 
 The thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM575C from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 29 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 11 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (2) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM575C), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM575C obtained in the above procedure (1), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover culture supernatant. 
 The culture supernatant thus prepared was diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8), and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, culture supernatant of the transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM463C), obtained in Example 3(3) was used as a control in the activity measurement. Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM575C) in comparison with the control. 
 (3) Purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM575C) 
 The polypeptide of the present invention was purified from the culture supernatant obtained in the above procedure (2) by means of ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, anion exchange chromatography and reverse phase chromatography in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(4). The thus obtained purified sample was used for the following SDS-PAGE (4), amino acid analysis (5) and activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (4) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After completion of the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (5) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). 
 As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) is the desired polypeptide Y46E-AN of the present invention (cf. amino acids 1-68 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 12 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 8 Production of polypeptide Q19K-AN 
 A polypeptide, Q19K-AN, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Lys for the  position  15 Gln of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment and construction of expression vector 
 A first PCR was carried out in the same manner as in Example 3(1), making use of the aforementioned Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit and using the SacII primer prepared in Example 4(1) and the pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) as sense and antisense primers and the aforementioned plasmid pM576 as a template. A portion of the amplified product of the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm presence of a single band of interest having a size of about 250 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified DNA fragment was digested with SacII and BamHI to obtain a DNA fragment of about 220 bp. The thus obtained DNA fragment of about 220 bp was ligated with a DNA fragment having a size of about 3.4 kb which had been prepared from plasmid pM594 by double-digesting it with SacII and BamHI, thereby obtaining an expression plasmid pM576B (cf. FIG. 30). The thus prepared plasmid pM576B was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 300 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, the thus purified DNA fragment was subjected to sequencing using the aforementioned DNA sequencer in the same manner as described in Example 2(2). 
 The thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM576B from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 31 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 13 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (2) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pMS76B), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM576B obtained in the above procedure (1), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover culture supernatant. 
 The culture supernatant thus prepared was diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8), and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, culture supernatant of the transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM463C), obtained in Example 3(3) was used as a control in the activity measurement. Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM576B) in comparison with the control. 
 (3) Purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM576B) 
 The polypeptide of the present invention was purified from the culture supernatant obtained in the above procedure (2) by means of ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, anion exchange chromatography and reverse phase chromatography in that order in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(4). The thus obtained purified sample was used for the following SDS-PAGE (4), amino acid analysis (5) and activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (4) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After completion of the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (5) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). 
 As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) is the polypeptide Q19K-AN of the present invention (cf. amino acids 1-68 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 14 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 9 Production of polypeptide 19R Y46E 
 A polypeptide, Q19R/Y46E, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Arg for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Glu for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following manner. 
 (1) Cloning of DNA fragment 
 A first PCR was carried out in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1), making use of the aforementioned Gene Amp® PCR Reagent Kit and using the HindIII primer prepared in Example 3(1) and the Q19R primer prepared in Example 4(1) as sense and antisense primers and the plasmid pM594 prepared in Example 4(1) as a template. A portion of the amplified product of the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm presence of a band of interest having a size of about 170 bp. The DNA fragment of interest product was extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation, and the thus purified DNA fragment was dissolved in TE buffer. Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out in the same manner as the above first PCR using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as a sense primer and the aforementioned plasmid pM575B as a template. In this instance, the pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) was used as an antisense primer. A portion of the amplified product by the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm presence of a band of interest having a size of about 350 bp. The DNA fragment of the present invention was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. 
 (2) Construction of expression vector 
 The DNA fragment of the present invention having a size of about 350 bp prepared in the above step (1) was inserted into plasmid pM463 in the same manner as in Example 3(2) to obtain an expression plasmid pM737B (cf. FIG. 32). The thus obtained expression plasmid pM737B was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 300 bp was extracted and purified. The thus purified DNA fragment of interest was subjected to sequencing using the aforementioned DNA sequencer in the same manner as in Example 2(2). 
 The thus confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM737B from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 33 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 15 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM737B), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM737B obtained in the above procedure (2), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover culture supernatant. 
 The culture supernatant thus prepared was diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8), and the diluted samples were used for the measurement of trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). In this instance, culture supernatant of a transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM463C), obtained in Example 3(3) was used as a control in the activity measurement. Markedly high trypsin-inhibiting activity was found in the culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM737B) in comparison with the control. 
 (4) Purification of the novel polypeptide of the present invention from culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505 (pM737B) 
 The polypeptide of the present invention was purified from the culture supernatant obtained in the above procedure (3) by means of ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, anion exchange chromatography and reverse phase chromatography in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(4). The thus purified polypeptide sample was used for the following SDS-PAGE (5), amino acid analysis (6) and activity measurement in Example 17. 
 (5) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (6) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). 
 As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) is the polypeptide Q19R/Y46E (cf. amino acids 1-68 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 16 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 10 Production of polypeptide Q19K/Y46D 
 A polypeptide, Q19K/Y46D, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Lys for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Asp for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Construction of plasmid pM748 
 First, the plasmid pM710 as a template for PCR was prepared in the following method. That is, a DNA fragment represented by the  nucleotide sequence Linker  710 shown in FIG. 34 (SEQ. I.D. NO. 61) was divided and designed into 5 small fragments, and each of the thus designed fragments was synthesized chemically in accordance with the procedure described in Example 1, making use of the aforementioned chemical synthesizer. Separately from this, the plasmid pM594 prepared in Example 4(1) was double-digested with HindIII and ApaI to obtain a DNA fragment of about 3.2 kbp. The thus obtained DNA fragment was ligated with the chemically synthesized DNA fragment, making use of the aforementioned T4 DNA ligase, to obtain the expression plasmid pM710. 
 PCR was carried out twice in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1) using a plasmid pM710 as a template. A first PCR was carried out using a chemically synthesized Y46D primer (FIG. 35, SEQ. I.D. NO. 62) as a sense primer and the pBR BamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) as an antisense primer. A portion of amplified product of the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 120 bp. The thus amplified product was extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation and then dissolved in TE buffer. 
 Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as an antisense primer and the HindIII primer prepared in Example 3(1) as a sense primer. Thereby a portion of amplified product of the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380bp. 
 The DNA fragment of interest was then extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. Then, the DNA fragment was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM748. 
 (2) Construction of plasmid pM727 
 PCR was carried out in the same manner as in Example 3(1) using the thus obtained plasmid pM748 as a template. A first PCR was carried out using the HindIII primer and the Q19K primer prepared in Example 3(1) as a sense and antisense primers, respectively. A portion of the amplified product of the first PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 210 bp. The DNA fragment of interest was then extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation and then dissolved in TE buffer. Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as a sense primer and the pBRBamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) as an antisense primers. Thereby a portion of amplified product by the second PCR was applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380bp. 
 The DNA fragment of interest was then extracted and purified from the amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. 
 The thus obtained DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380 bp was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM727. The thus constructed plasmid pM727 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a fragment of interest having a size of about 340 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. The confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM727 from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 36 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 17 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM727), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM727 obtained in the above procedure (2), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3 (3). The resulting culture medium was concentrated using Benchmark GX (Menbrex Inc. pore size 0.2 μm). Thereafter the thus concentrated sample was centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 minutes at 4° C. to recover the cells. 
 (4) Solubilization and reduction 
 The cells obtained in the above procedure (3) were suspended in 0.5% Triton X-100/10 mM EDTA solution and homogenized using high pressure laboratory homogenizer, MINILAB (RANNI a/s.) with 800 bar. The thus treated suspension was centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 minutes at 4° C. to recover the inclusion body. 
 The pellet was suspended by 0.5% Triton X-100/10 mM EDTA solution and then it was centrifuged again. After repeating centrifugation twice in the same procedure as above, the pellet was recovered. The thus obtained pellet was resolved by an appropriate amount of a solubilization buffer (5M guanidine hydrochloride, 0.005   % Tween    80, 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 5 mM EDTA, 2 mM glutathione in reduced form and 0.02 mM glutathione in oxidized form). And then 2-mercaptoethanol was added to the solution to  final concentration  50 mM The prepared solution was stirred overnight at 4° C. and thereafter concentrated by ultrafiltration using a membrane, YM-5 (AMICON GRACE JAPAN K.K.) followed by filtration using a filter of 0.44 μm pore size. 
 The resulting filtrate was applied to a column (5 cm.o slashed.×95 cm) packed with Sephacryl S-100 MR (Pharmacia K.K./Pharmacia Biotech K.K.) which had been equilibrated with the aforementioned solubilization buffer. The loaded sample was then eluted using the same buffer at a flow rate of 3.5 ml/min and each 30 ml fraction was collected. During the elution, protein concentration was monitored at 280 nm. A portion of each collected fraction was subjected to SDS-PAGE using PAGEL® (SPU-15S, ATTO CORPORATION) in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction. After staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue, fractions with a desired molecular weight were pooled. 
 The pooled fraction was diluted with the aforementioned solubilization buffer to 0.5 mg/ml. The solution was used as a sample for the following refolding treatment. 
 (5) Refolding 
 Refolding was carried out by dialyzing the sample obtained in the above procedure (4) under the following conditions. That is, the sample was dialyzed against three changes of 10 to 15 volumes of solubilization buffer lacking guanidine hydrochloride, followed by two additional changes of 10 to 15 volumes of distilled water. After the dialysis, the sample was adjusted to pH 2 with HCl and subjected to the following purification process. 
 (6) Purification 
 (a) Reverse phase chromatography 
 The sample obtained in the above procedure (5) was applied to PLRP-S column (25 mm.o slashed.×150 mm, Polymer Laboratories Ltd.) which had been equilibrated with 0.1% TFA solution. Elution was carried out at a flow rate of 5 ml/min with a linear gradient of 0-70% acetonitrile/0.1% TFA/30 min, 70-100% acetonitrile/0.1% TFA/3 min. Protein concentration in the eluent was monitored at 280 nm and each 5 ml fraction was collected. A portion of each collected fraction was checked for its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure of Example 17(1). Fractions showing the trypsin-inhibiting activity were pooled, lyophilized and then dissolved in 70% formic acid to a final concentration of about 100 μM. The resulting solution was mixed with 2,000 times higher molar ratio of cyanogen bromide and then allowed to stand in the dark for 24 hours at 25° C. The thus treated solution was diluted with the equal volume of distilled water. 
 (b) Cation exchange chromatography 
 The sample obtained in the above step (a) was applied to SP-Toyopearl column (30 mm.o slashed.×150 mm, Tosoh Corporation) which had been equilibrated with 10% formic acid solution. Using the aforementioned FPLC system, elution was carried out at a flow rate of 8 ml/min with a linear density gradient of NaCl (NaCl concentration 0-1.2M/10% formic acid solution). Protein concentration in the eluent was monitored by measuring absorbance at 280 nm and 32 ml fractions were collected. A portion of each collected fraction was checked for its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure described in Example 17(1). Fractions showing the activity were used in the following reverse phase chromatography. 
 (c) Reverse phase chromatography 
 The active fraction obtained in the above step (b) was applied to the aforementioned PLRP-S column (25 mm.o slashed.×150 mm) which had been equilibrated with 0.1% TFA solution. Elution was carried out at a flow rate of 10 ml/min with a linear gradient of 0-70% acetonitrile/0.1% TFA/15 min and 70-100% acetonitrile/0.1% TFA/3 min. Protein concentration in the eluent was monitored at 280 nm and each protein peak was collected. 
 A portion of each collected fraction was checked for its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure of Example 17(1). Fractions showing the trypsin-inhibiting activity were pooled and lyophilized to obtain a purified sample. 
 (7) SDS-PAGE 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (6) was subjected to SDS-PAGE using aforementioned PAGEL®. After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (8) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 A portion of the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (7) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). As a result, it was confirmed that the purified sample is the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D of the present invention (cf. amino acids 34-101 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 18 and SEQ. I.D. NO. 35 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 11 Production of polypeptide Q19R/Y46D 
 A polypeptide, Q19R/Y46D, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Arg for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Asp for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Construction of plasmid pM744 
 PCR was carried out twice using the plasmid pM748 obtained in Example 10(1) as a template, in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1). In this instance the first PCR was carried out using the Q19R primer prepared in Example 4(1) as an antisense primer in stead of the Q19K primer. The DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380 bp was extracted and purified from the finally obtained amprified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained DNA fragment was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM744. The thus concentrated plasmid pM744 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 340 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. 
 The confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM744 from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 37 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 19 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (2) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM744), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM744 obtained in the above procedure (1), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3), to recover cultured medium. The resulting cultured medium was concentrated using the aforementioned ultrafiltration membrane, Benchmark GX. Thereafter the thus concentrated sample was centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 minutes at 4° C. to recover the cells. 
 (3) Isolation and purification of Q19R/Y46D 
 The cells obtained in the above procedure (2) were subsequently subjected to solubilization and reduction treatments in the same manner as described in Example 10(4). After the treatment, the sample was refolded in the same manner as described in Example 10(5) and then purified in the same manner as in Example 10(6). The finally obtained active fractions were lyophilized to obtain a purified sample. 
 (4) SDS-PAGE 
 A portion of the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (5) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) is the polypeptide Q19R/Y46D of the present invention (cf. amino acids 34-101 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 20 and SEQ. I.D. NO. 36 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 12 Production of polypeptide R11O/Q19K/Y46D 
 A polypeptide, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Gln for the  position  7 Arg, Lys for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Asp for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Construction of plasmid pM741 
 PCR was carried out twice using the plasmid pM727 obtained in Example 10(2) as a template, in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1). In this instance the first PCR was carried out using a chemically synthesized primer R11Q (FIG. 38) as an antisense primer instead of the Q19K primer. The DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380 bp was extracted and purified from a finally amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained DNA fragment was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM741. 
 The thus constructed plasmid pM741 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 340 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. 
 The confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM741 from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 39 (cf. Sequence ID No. 21 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (2) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM741), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM741 obtained in the above procedure (1), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover cultured medium. A portion of the resulting cultured medium was centrifuged to obtain supernatant and to check its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure of Example 17(1). 
 The trypsin-inhibiting activity in the obtained supernatant was 5 times higher than that of E. coli JE5505 (pM727). In consideration of the specific activity in bovine trypsin-inhibition, it was confirmed that the substitution of  position  7, counting from N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of  formula  1, made for efficient secretion of this polypeptide from a transformant. 
 The rest of culture mixture was concentrated using the aforementioned ultrafiltration membrane, Benchmark GX. Thereafter the concentrated sample was centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 minutes at 4° C. to recover the cells. 
 (3) Isolation and purification of R11Q/Q19K/Y46D 
 The cells obtained in the above procedure (2) were subsequently subjected to solubilization and reduction treatments in the same manner as described in Example 10(4). After the treatment, the sample was refolded in the same manner as described in Example 10(5) and then purified in the same manner as in Example 10(6). The finally obtained active fractions were lyophilized to obtain a purified sample. 
 (4) SDS-PAGE 
 A portion of the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (5) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) is the polypeptide R11Q/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention (cf. amino acids 34-101 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 22 and SEQ. I.D. NO. 37 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 13 Production of polypeptide R11D/Q19K/Y46D 
 A polypeptide, R11D/Q19K/Y46D, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Asp for the  position  7 Arg, Lys for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Asp for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, side was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Construction of plasmid pM742 
 PCR was carried out twice using the plasmid pM727 obtained in Example 10(2) as a template, in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1). In this instance the first PCR was carried out using a chemically synthesized primer R11D (FIG. 40) as an antisense primer instead of the Q19K primer. The DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380 bp was extracted and purified from the finally obtained amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained DNA fragment was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM742. The thus constructed plasmid pM742 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 340 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. 
 The confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM742 from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 41 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 23 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (2) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM742), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM742 obtained in the above procedure (1), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover cultured medium. A portion of the resulting cultured medium was centrifuged to obtain supernatant and to check its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure of Example 17(1). 
 The trypsin-inhibiting activity in the obtained supernatant was 2 times higher than that of E. coli JE5505 (pM727). In consideration of the specific activity in bovine trypsin-inhibition of these polypeptide, it was confirmed that the substitution of  position  7, counting from N-terminus of the amino acid sequence of  formula  1, made for efficient secretion of this polypeptide from a transformant. 
 The rest of cultured medium was concentrated using the aforementioned ultrafiltration membrane, Benchmark GX. Thereafter the concentrated sample was centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 minutes at 4° C. to recover the cells. 
 (3) Isolation and purification of R11D/Q19K/Y46D 
 The cells obtained in the above procedure (2) were subsequently subjected to solubilization and reduction treatments in the same manner as described in Example 10(4). After the treatment, the sample was refolded in the same manner as described in Example 10(5) and then purified in the same manner as in Example 10(6). Finally obtained active fractions were lyophilized to obtain a purified sample. 
 (4) SDS-PAGE 
 A portion of the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (5) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) is the polypeptide R11D/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention (cf. amino acids 34-101 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 24 and SEQ. I.D. NO. 38 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 14 Production of polypeptide R11L/Q19K/Y46D 
 A polypeptide, R11L/Q19K/Y46D, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Leu for the  position  7 Arg, Lys for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Asp for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Construction of plasmid pM743 
 PCR was carried out twice using the plasmid pM727 obtained in Example 10(2) as a template, in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1). In this instance the first PCR was carried out using a chemically synthesized primer R11L (FIG. 42) as an antisense primer instead of the Q19K primer. The DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380 bp was extracted and purified from a finally obtained amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained DNA fragment was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM743. The thus constructed plasmid pM743 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 340 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. 
 The confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM743 from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 43 (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 25 in the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (2) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM743), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM743 obtained in the above procedure (1), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover cultured medium. 
 The resulting cultured medium was concentrated using the aforementioned ultrafiltration membrane, Benchmark GX. Thereafter the concentrated sample was centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 minutes at 4° C. to recover the cells. 
 (3) Isolation and purification of R11L/Q19K/Y46D 
 The cells obtained in the above procedure (2) were subsequently subjected to solubilization and reduction treatments in the same manner as described in Example 10(4). After the treatment, the sample was refolded in the same manner as described in Example 10(5), and then purified in the same manner as in Example 10(6). The finally obtained active fractions were lyophilized to obtain a purified sample. 
 (4) SDS-PAGE 
 A portion of the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (5) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) is the polypeptide R11L/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention (cf. amino acids 34-101 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 26 and SEQ. I.D. NO. 39 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 15 Production of polypeptide R11E/Q19K/Y46E 
 A polypeptide, R11E/Q19K/Y46E, having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Glu for the 7 position Arg, Lys for the  position  15 Gln, as well as Glu for the position 42 Tyr, of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, was prepared in the following method. 
 (1) Construction of plasmid pM721 
 PCR was carried out twice in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1) using a plasmid pM727 as a template. In this instance, the first PCR was carried out using Y46E primer prepared in Example 2(1) and pBRBamHI primer prepared in Example 3(1) as sense and antisense primers, respectively. The DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 120 bp was then extracted and purified from an amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation and then dissolved in TE buffer. Thereafter, a second PCR was carried out using the thus dissolved DNA fragment as an antisence primer and the HindIII prepared in Example 3(1) primer as a sense primer. The DNA fragment from a finally obtained amplified product of interest having a size of about 380 bp was extracted and purified by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation. Then, the DNA fragment was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM721. 
 (2) Construction of plasmid pM738 
 PCR was carried out twice using the thus plasmid pM721, in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1). In this instance, the first PCR was carried out using R11E primer prepared in Example 6(1) as an antisence primer instead of the Q19K primer. The DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 380 bp was extracted and purified from a finally obtained amplified product by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragment of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained DNA fragment was inserted into the aforementioned plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmid pM738. The thus constructed plasmid pM738 was double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and a DNA fragment of interest having a size of about 340 bp was extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. 
 The confirmed nucleotide sequence of a region of plasmid pM738 from its HindIII site to its BamHI site containing the novel DNA fragment of the present invention and its corresponding amino acid sequence are shown in FIG. 44 (SEQ. I.D. NO. 27 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 (3) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE5505 (pM738), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM738 obtained in the above procedure (2), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated transformant was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3) to recover cultured medium. A portion of the resulting cultured medium was centrifuged to obtain supernatant and to check its trypsin-inhibiting activity in accordance with the procedure of Example 17(1). 
 The trypsin-inhibiting activity in the obtained supernatant was about 5 times higher than that of E. coli JE5505 (pM721) which was transformed by the plasmid pM 721 obtained in above (1). In consideration of the specific activity of these polypeptides in bovine trypsin-inhibition, it was confirmed that the substitution of  position  7, counting from N-terminus of the amino  acid sequence formula  1, made for efficient secretion of this polypeptide from a transformant. 
 The rest of cultured medium was concentrated using the aforementioned ultrafiltration membrane, Benchmark GX. Thereafter the concentrated sample was centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 minutes at 4° C. to recover the cells. 
 (4) Isolation and purification of R11E/Q19K/Y46E 
 The cells obtained in the above procedure (3) were subsequently subjected to solubilization and reduction treatments in the same manner as described in Example 10(4). After the treatment, the sample was refolded in the same manner as described in Example 10(5) and then purified in the same manner as in Example 10(6). Finally obtained active fractions were lyophilized to obtain a purified sample. 
 (5) SDS-PAGE 
 A portion of the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) was subjected to SDS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(5). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified sample showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (6) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (4) was dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and its amino acid sequence was determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). As a result, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide sample obtained in the above procedure (3) is the desired polypeptide R11E/Q19K/Y46E of the present invention (cf. amino acids 34-101 of SEQ. I.D. NO. 28 and SEQ. I.D. NO. 40 of the SEQUENCE LISTING). 
 Example 16 Production of polypeptides R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D 
 Polypeptides R11N/Q19K/Y46D (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 41), R11S/Q19K/Y46D (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 42) and R11A/Q19K/Y46D (cf. SEQ. I.D. NO. 43) having an amino acid sequence derived from the  aforementioned formula  1 amino acid sequence by substituting Asn, Ser and Ala for the  position  7 Arg, respectively, in addition to substituting Lys for the  position  15 Gln and Asp for the position 42 Tyr of the  formula  1 sequence, counting from its N-terminus, were prepared by the following method. 
 (1) Construction of plasmids pM764, pM765 and pM767 
 PCR was carried out twice in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(1) using the plasmid pM727 obtained in Example 10(2) as a template. In this instance, the first PCR was carried out using chemically synthesized R11N primer (FIG. 56, SEQ. I.D. NO. 77), R11S primer (FIG. 57, SEQ. I.D. NO. 78) and R11A primer (FIG. 58, SEQ. I.D. NO. 79) as antisense primers, respectively. Amplified products obtained by the second PCR were applied to 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis to confirm formation of DNA fragments of interest having a size of about 380 bp. The DNA fragments of interest were then extracted and purified from the amplified products by means of phenol treatment and ethanol precipitation to obtain the DNA fragments of the present invention. 
 The thus obtained DNA fragments of the present invention were each inserted into the plasmid pM463 in accordance with the procedure described in Example 3(2) to obtain the expression plasmids pM764, pM765 and pM767. 
 The thus constructed plasmids pM764, pM765 and pM767 were each double-digested with HindIII and BamHI, and fragments of interest having a size of about 340 bp were extracted and purified. Thereafter, sequencing was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 2(2) using the aforementioned DNA sequencer. 
 The confirmed nucleotide sequences of each region of plasmids pM764, pM765 and pM767, from their HindIII site to their BamHI site, containing novel DNA fragments of the present invention and those corresponding amino acid sequences are shown in FIGS. 59 (SEQ. I.D. NO. 30), 60 (SEQ. I.D. NO. 34) and 61 (SEQ. I.D. NO. 80). 
 (2) Preparation and culturing of transformant 
 A transformant, E. coli JE 5505 (pM764), was isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmid pM764 obtained in the above procedure (1), in accordance with Hanahan's method. The thus isolated E. coli JE5505 (pM764) was subsequently cultured in the same manner as in Example 3(3). The resulting culture medium was concentrated using the aforementioned Benchmark GX and then centrifuged to recover the cells. Transformants, E. coli JE5505 (pM765) and JE5505 (pM767), were isolated by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the plasmids pM765 and pM767 in the same manner. The thus isolated transformants were cultured and the cells were recovered. 
 (3) Isolation and purification of R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D 
 The cells obtained in the above procedure (2) were subsequently subjected to solubilization and reduction treatments in the same manner as described in Example 10(4). After the treatment, the samples were refolded in the same manner as described in Example 10(5) and then purified in the same manner as in Example 10(6). The finally obtained active fractions were lyophilized to obtain purified samples. 
 (4) SDS-PAGE 
 Portions of the purified polypeptide samples obtained in the above procedure (3) were subjected to SS-PAGE in accordance with the procedure described in Example 10(7). After the electrophoresis, staining was carried out with the aforementioned commercial silver staining kit. The purified samples each showed a single band by SDS-PAGE. 
 (5) Determination of amino acid sequence 
 The purified polypeptide samples obtained in the above procedure (3) were dissolved in 50% acetic acid solution and their amino acid sequences were determined in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2(6). As results, it was confirmed that the purified polypeptide samples obtained in the above procedure (3) are the desired polypeptides R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11N/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention. 
 Example 17 Measurement of enzyme-inhibiting activities 
 Trypsin-, FXa-, elastase-, plasma kallikrein- and plasmin-inhibiting activities of the novel polypeptide of the present invention were measured in the following manner, using polypeptide samples Y46E, Q19K, Q19R, Q19K/Y46E, R11E/Y46E, Y46E-AN, Q19K-AN, Q19R/Y46E, Q19K/Y46D, Q19R/Y46D, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11D/Q19K/Y46D, R11L/Q19K/Y46D, R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 2(4), Example 3(4), Example 4(4), Example 5(4), Example 6(4), Example 7(3), Example 8(3), Example 9(4), Example 10(6), Example 11(3), Example 12(3), Example 13(3), Example 14(3), Example 15(4) and Example 16, respectively. 
 (1) Bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity 
 The purified polypeptide of the present invention was dissolved in 100 μl of distilled water, and the solution was serially diluted with a 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8) for use in the activity measurement. Measurement of the trypsin-inhibiting activity in the thus prepared test sample was carried out in accordance with the Kassell's method (Kassell, B. et al., Methods in Enzymology, vol.19, pp.844-852, 1970) using a synthetic substrate S-2444 (Daiichi Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.). 
 Bovine trypsin (Type XIII, Sigma Chemical Co.) was dissolved in 0.001M HCl to a final concentration of 13,600 BAEEU/ml and the solution was further diluted with 0.1% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8) to prepare 1.2 BAEEU/ml of trypsin solution. Separately from this, 2 mM solution of the synthetic substrate S-2444 was prepared by dissolving it in distilled water. Next, 100 μl of the test sample was mixed with 100 μl of the trypsin solution. After incubating statically at 37° C. for 10 minutes, 50 μl of the S-2444 solution was added to start the reaction. The reaction was carried out at 37° C. for 15 minutes and then stopped by adding 50 μl of 50% acetic acid solution to the reaction mixture. Thereafter, absorbance at a wavelength of 405 nm was measured using a spectrophotometer. In this instance, in order to eliminate absorbancy of various contents in the reaction mixture other than the reaction product, a blank solution was prepared by mixing 100 μl of the bovine trypsin solution with 50 μl of 50% acetic acid and then with 100 μl of each test sample and 50 μl of the S-2444 solution. 
 It was thus confirmed that each of these polypeptides Y46E, Q19K, Q19R, Q19K/Y46E, R11E/Y46E, Y46E-AN, Q19K-AN, Q19R/Y46E, Q19K/Y46D, Q19R/Y46D, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11D/Q19K/Y46D, R11L/Q19K/Y46D, R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D can inhibit bovine trypsin in a concentration-dependent manner. 
 (2) Human trypsin-inhibiting activity 
 The purified polypeptide of the present invention was dissolved in 100 μl of distilled water. Concentration of polypeptide in the thus prepared solution was determined based on its bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity measured in accordance with the above procedure (1) using UTI (Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; cf. H. Ohnishi et al., Nippon Yakurigaku Zasshi, vol.85, pp.1-6, 1985) as a standard. The polypeptide solution was then diluted to various concentration levels with 0.03% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8) for use in the activity measurement. Separately from this, human trypsin (Calbiochem) was dissolved in 1 mM HCl to a concentration of 1,000 SU/ml and the solution was further diluted with the 0.03% BSA/0.2M triethanolamine-HCl buffer (pH 7.8) to prepare a 1.25 SU/ml solution of human trypsin. Thereafter, human trypsin-inhibiting activity was measured in the same manner as described in the above procedure (1) using the aforementioned synthetic substrate S-2444. Separately from this, polypeptide AN68 (sequence described in Example 17(3)) was diluted to various concentration levels. Thereafter, human trypsin-inhibiting activity was measured in the same manner as described in the above procedure (1) and compared with the trypsin-inhibiting activity of the novel polypeptide of the present invention. 
 As results, it was confirmed that each of the polypeptides Y46E, Q19K, Q19R, Q19K/Y46E, R11E/Y46E, Y46E-AN, Q19K-AN, Q19R/Y46E, Q19K/Y46D, Q19R/Y46D, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11D/Q19K/Y46D, R11L/Q19K/Y46D, R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D can inhibit human trypsin in a concentration-dependent manner. All the polypeptides excluding R11D/Q19K/Y46D showed the same or higher trypsin-inhibiting activity than that of polypeptide AN68. Results are shown in FIG. 62 to FIG. 65. 
 (3) FXa-inhibiting activity 
 The purified polypeptide of the present invention was dissolved in 100 μl of distilled water. Polypeptide concentration of this solution was determined based on its bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity measured in accordance with the above procedure (1) using the aforementioned UTI as a standard. The thus prepared solution was then diluted to various concentration levels with 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/5 mM CaCl 2  /50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) for use in the activity measurement. Separately from this, a polypeptide TN70 (cf. Japanese Patent Application No. 3-325220) and polypeptide AN68 were purified respectively in accordance with the procedure of Example 2(4) from a culture supernatant of E. coli JE5505(pM552) (deposit No., FERM BP-3561) and E. coli JE5505(pM594) obtained by transforming E. coli JE5505 with the aforementioned plasmid pM594 obtained in Example 4. The thus purified polypeptide TN70 and AN68 were diluted to various concentration levels to be used as control solutions. 
 The amino acid sequence of  polypeptide TN  70 and AN68 are represented below. ##STR5## 
 Using a synthetic compound S-2222 (Daiichi Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.) as a substrate, FXa-inhibiting activities in the thus prepared test sample solution and control solution were measured in accordance with the method of Ohno et al. (Ohno H. et al., Thromb. Res., vol.19, pp.579-588, 1980) as follows. First, human FXa (American Diagnostica Inc.) was dissolved in distilled water to a final concentration of 10 PEU/ml and the solution was further diluted with the aforementioned 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/5 mM CaCl 2  /50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) to prepare 0.1 PEU/ml of FXa solution. Separately from this, a 4 mM solution of S-2222 was prepared by dissolving it in distilled water and the solution was further diluted with the 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/5 mM CaCl 2  /50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) to obtain a 2 mM solution of S-2222. 
 Next, 25 μl of the test sample or control solution was mixed with 100 μl of the 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/5 mM CaCl 2  /50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) and 25 μl of the FXa solution. After incubating statically at 37° C. for 10 minutes, 100 μl of the S-2222 solution was added to start the reaction. The reaction was carried out at 37° C. for 30 minutes and then stopped by adding 50 μl of 50% acetic acid solution to the reaction mixture. Thereafter, absorbance at a wavelength of 405 nm was measured using a spectrophotometer. In this instance, in order to eliminate absorbancy of various contents in the reaction mixture other than the reaction product, a blank solution was prepared by mixing 25 μl of the FXa solution with 50 μl of 50% acetic acid and then with 25 μl of each test sample or the control solution, 100 μl of the 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/5 mM CaCl 2  /50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) and with 100 μl of the S-2222 solution. 
 The results are shown in FIG. 45 to FIG. 53 and FIG. 66. In these figures, polypeptide concentration in the reaction solution was expressed as its bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity. Also, residual human FXa activity was expressed by percentage based on the absorbance of a control reaction mixture in which 25 μl of the 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/5 mM CaCl 2  /50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) was used instead of the test sample. 
 FIG. 45 shows the novel polypeptide Y46E obtained in Example 2(4) of the present invention has significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide TN70 used as a control. In other words, it has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about seven times higher than that of the polypeptide TN70. 
 FIG. 46 shows the novel polypeptide Q19K obtained in Example 3(4) of the present invention has significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide TN70 used as a control. In other words, it has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about five times higher than that of the polypeptide TN70. 
 FIG. 47 shows the novel polypeptide Q19R obtained in Example 4(4) of the present invention has significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control. In other words, it has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about six times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. 
 FIG. 48 shows the novel polypeptide Q19K/Y46E obtained in Example 5(4) of the present invention has significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control. In other words, it has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about ten times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. 
 FIG. 49 shows the novel polypeptide R11E/Y46E obtained in Example 6(4) of the present invention has significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control. In other words, it has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about three times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. 
 FIG. 50 shows the novel polypeptide Q19R/Y46E obtained in Example 9(4) of the present invention has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about ten times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. 
 FIG. 51 shows the novel polypeptides Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 10(6) and Q19R/Y46D of the present invention have significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control. In other words, polypeptide Q19K/Y46D has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about twenty times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. Polypeptide Q19R/Y46D obtained in Example 11(3) has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about 18 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. 
 FIG. 52 shows the novel polypeptides R11Q/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 12(3), R11L/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 14(3), R11D/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 13(3) and R11N/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 16(3) of the present invention have significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control. In other words, polypeptide R11Q/Q19K/Y46D of the present invention has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about twenty times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. The polypeptide R11D/Q19K/Y46D has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about 5 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. The polypeptide R11L/Q19K/Y46D has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about 16 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. The polypeptide R11N/Q19K/Y46D has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about 10 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. 
 FIG. 66 shows the novel polypeptides R11E/Q19K/Y46E obtained in Example 15(4), R11S/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 16(3) and R11A/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 16(3) of the present invention have significantly high FXa-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control. In other words, polypeptide R11E/Q19K/Y46E has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about 13 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. The polypeptide R11S/Q19K/Y46D has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about 8 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. The polypeptide R11A/Q19K/Y46D has an FXa-inhibiting activity which is about 9 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68. 
 (4) Human elastase-inhibiting activity 
 The purified polypeptide of the present invention was dissolved in 100 μl of distilled water. The concentration of this solution was determined based on its bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity using UTI as a standard. The solution was then diluted to various concentration levels with 0.1% BSA/27 mM CaCl 2  /133 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) for use in the activity measurement. The aforementioned AN68 was also diluted in the same manner for use as a control. Human elastase-inhibiting activities in the test samples and the control were measured in accordance with the method of Ogawa et al. (Ogawa, M. et al., Res. Commun. Chem. Pathol. Pharmacol., vol.55, pp.271-274, 1987) using a synthetic compound STANA (Peptide Institute Inc.) as a substrate. 
 Human neutrophil elastase (CALBIOCHEM) was dissolved in 27 mM CaCl 2  /133 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) to a concentration of 100 μg/ml and the solution was further diluted with 0.1% BSA/27 mM CaCl 2  /133 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) to prepare a 4 μg/ml elastase solution. 100 mM STANA solution was prepared by dissolving it in N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone and the solution was further diluted with 0.1% BSA/27 mM CaCl 2  /133 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) to prepare a 20 mM STANA solution. 
 Next, 50 μl of the test sample or positive control was mixed with 50 μl of the elastase solution and 50 μl of 0.1% BSA/27 mM CACl 2  /133 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5). After incubation at 37° C. for 10 minutes, 50 μl of the STANA solution was added to the mixture to start the reaction. The reaction was carried out at 37° C. for 20 minutes and then stopped by adding 50 μl of 50% acetic acid solution to the reaction mixture. Thereafter, absorbance at a wavelength of 405 nm was measured using a spectrophotometer. In this instance, in order to eliminate absorbance of various solutions in the reaction product, a blank solution was prepared by mixing 50 μl of the elastase solution with 50 μl of 50% acetic acid and then with 50 μl of each test sample or the control, 50 μl of 0.1% BSA/27 mM CaCl 2  /133 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) and with 50 μl of the STANA solution. 
 As results, it was confirmed that each of the polypeptides of the present invention can inhibit elastase in a concentration-dependent manner. 
 The results are shown in FIG. 54 and FIG. 55 and FIG. 67 to FIG. 69. In these figures, polypeptide concentration in the reaction solution is expressed as its bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity. Also, remaining human elastase activity was expressed by percentage based on the absorbance of a control reaction mixture in which 50 μl of the 0.1% BSA/27 mM CaCl 2  /133 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) was used instead of the test sample or the control. 
 FIG. 54 shows the novel polypeptide R11Q/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 12(3), R11D/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 13(3) and R11L/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 14(3) of the present invention have significantly high elastase-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D which was obtained Example 10(6). In other words, the polypeptide R11Q/Q19K/Y46D has an elastase-inhibiting activity which is about 3 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68 and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D. The polypeptide R11D/Q19K/Y46D has an elastase-inhibiting activity which is about 3 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68 and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D. And the polypeptide R11L/Q19K/Y46D has an elastase-inhibiting activity which is about 2 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68 and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D. 
 FIG. 55 shows the novel polypeptide R11E/Q19K/Y46E obtained in Example 15(4) of the present invention has significantly high elastase-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46E which was purified from the cultured medium of E. coli JE5505(pM721) transformed by plasmid pM721 obtained Example 15(1). In other words, it has an elastase-inhibiting activity which is about 5 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68 and 6 times higher than that of the polypeptide Q19K/Y46E. 
 FIG. 69 shows the novel polypeptides R11N/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 16(3), R11S/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 16(3) and R11A/Q19K/Y46D obtained in Example 16(3) of the present invention have significantly high elastase-inhibiting activity in comparison with the polypeptide AN68 used as a control and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D. In other words, the polypeptide R11N/Q19K/Y46D has an elastase-inhibiting activity which is about 5 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68 and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D. The polypeptide R11S/Q19K/Y46D has an elastase-inhibiting activity which is about 10 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68 and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D. The polypeptide R11A/Q19K/Y46D has an elastase-inhibiting activity which is about 4 times higher than that of the polypeptide AN68 and the polypeptide Q19K/Y46D. 
 (5) Human plasmin-inhibiting activity 
 The purified polypeptide of the present invention was dissolved in 100 μl of distilled water. The concentration of this solution was determined based on its bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity using UTI as a standard. The solution was then diluted to various concentration levels with 0.11M NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.4) for use in the activity measurement. The aforementioned AN68 was also diluted in the same manner for use as a control. Human plasmin-inhibiting activities in the test samples and the positive control were measured in accordance with the method of Friberger et al. (Friberger P. et al., Haemostatis, vol.7, pp.138-145, 1978) using a synthetic compound S-2251 (Daiichi Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.) as a substrate. 
 First, human plasma plasmin (Sigma Chemical Co.) was dissolved in physiological saline to a concentration of 1 U/ml and the solution was further diluted with 50% glycerol/2 mM HCl to prepare a 0.1 U/ml human plasmin solution. 3.5 mM S-2251 solution was prepared by dissolving it in distilled water. 
 Next, 50 μl of the test sample or positive control was mixed with 50 μl of the human plasmin solution and 100 μl of 0.11M NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.4). After incubation at 37° C. for 10 minutes, 50 μl of the S-2251 solution was added to the mixture to start the reaction. The reaction was carried out at 37° C. for 5 minutes and then stopped by adding 25 μl of 50% acetic acid to the reaction mixture. Thereafter, absorbance at a wavelength of 405 nm was measured using a spectrophotometer. 
 In this instance, in order to eliminate absorbance of various solutions in the reaction product, a blank solution was prepared by mixing 50 μl of the human plasmin solution with 25 μl of 50% acetic acid and then with 50 μl of each test sample or the control, 100 μl of 0.11M NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.4) and with 50 μl of the S-2251 solution. 
 It was thus confirmed that each of the polypeptides of the present invention can inhibit human plasmin in a concentration-dependent manner. The results are shown in FIG. 70 to FIG. 73. In these figures, remaining human plasmin activity was expressed by percentage based on the absorbance of a control reaction mixture in which 50 μl of the 0.11M NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH7.4) was used instead of the test sample or the control. 
 (5) Human plasma kallikrein-inhibiting activity 
 The purified polypeptide of the present invention was dissolved in 100 μl of distilled water. The concentration of this solution was determined based on its bovine trypsin-inhibiting activity using UTI as a standard. The solution was then diluted to various concentration levels with 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) for use in the activity measurement. The aforementioned AN68 was also diluted in the same manner for use as a control. Using a synthetic compound S-2302 (Daiichi Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.) as a substrate, human plasma kallikrein-inhibiting activities in the test samples and the control were measured in accordance with the method of Ohno et al. (Ohno, H. et al., Thromb. Res. vol.19, pp.579-588, 1980) as follows. 
 First, 0.26U/ml of human plasma kallikrein solution (Sigma Chemical Co.) was diluted with 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) to prepare a 0.08 U/ml human plasma kallikrein solution. A 4 mM S-2302 solution was prepared by dissolving the synthetic compound S-2302 in distilled water and the solution was further diluted with 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) to prepare a 2 mM S-2302 solution. 
 Next, 25 μl of the test sample or control was mixed with 75 μl of 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) and 50 μl of human plasma kallikrein solution. After incubation at 37° C. for 10 minutes, 50 μl of the S-2302 solution was added to the mixture to start the reaction. The reaction was carried out at 37° C. for 8 minutes and then stopped by adding 25 μl of 50% acetic acid to the reaction mixture. Thereafter, absorbance at a wavelength of 405 nm was measured using a spectrophotometer. 
 In this instance, in order to eliminate absorbance of various solutions in the reaction product, a blank solution was prepared by mixing 50 μl of the human plasma kallikrein solution with 25 μl of 50% acetic acid and then with 25 μl of each test sample or the positive control, 75 μl of 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) and with 50 μl of the S-2302 solution. 
 It was thus confirmed that each of the polypeptides of the present invention can inhibit human plasma kallikrein in a concentration-dependent manner. The results are shown in FIG. 74 to FIG. 77. In these figures, remaining human plasma kallikrein activity was expressed by percentage based on the absorbance of a control reaction mixture in which 25 μl of 0.1% BSA/150 mM NaCl/50 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.3) was used instead of the test sample or the control. 
 Example 18 Safety 
 Safety of the novel polypeptide of the present invention was confirmed by the following procedures (1) and (2). 
 (1) Polypeptides Y46E, Q19K, Q19R, Q19K/Y46E, R11E/Y46E, Y46E-AN, Q19K-AN and Q19R/Y46E were prepared from the cultured medium of transformants JE5505 (pM575B), JE5505 (pM576), JE5505 (pM735), JE5505 (pM736), JE5505 (pM726B), JE5505 (pM575C), JE5505 (pM576B) and JE5505 (pM737B) in accordance with the procedure in Example 2(4). 
 Each of the thus prepared ten purified polypeptide samples was dissolved in physiological saline and the resulting solution was applied to PIROZALTO UNIT (molecular weight cutoff of 20,000, Saltorius) in order to remove lipopolysaccharide (to be referred to as "LPS" hereinafter). 
 Wistar rats were prepared for one week in advance and then divided into administration groups and control groups, each test group including 10 males or females. Each of the polypeptide solutions prepared above was administered to rats of each administration group by intravenous injection with a dose of 100 mg/kg/day, and appearance of symptoms and changes in their body weights were observed for one week. In this instance, physiological saline was administered to the control group. 
 Significant side effect were not found in any of the polypeptide-administered groups, and survival rates and body weight changes in the administration groups were the same as those in the control groups. 
 (2) Polypeptides Q19K/Y46D, Q19R/Y46D, R11A/Q19K/Y46D, R11D/Q19K/Y46D, R11L/Q19K/Y46D, R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46R were prepared by purification from the cultured medium of transformants JE5505 (pM727), JE5505 (pM744), JE5505 (pM741), JE5505 (pM742), JE5505 (pM743), JE5505 (pM738), JE5505(pM764), JE5505 (pM765) and JE5505 (pM767) in accordance with the procedures described in Example 10(4), (5) and (6). 
 Each of purified polypeptide was dissolved in physiological saline and applied to OMEGACEL (molecular weight cutoff of 100,000, Filtoron) in order to remove LPS. 
 Wistar rats were prepared for one week in advance and then divided into administration groups and control groups, each group including 10 males or females. Each of the polypeptide solutions prepared above was administered to rats of each administration group by intravenous injection with a dose of 10 mg/kg/day. Physiological saline was administered to rats of each control group. Appearance of symptoms and changes in their body weights were observed for a week. No significant side effects were found in any of the polypeptide-administered groups, and survival rates and body weight changes in the administration groups were the same as those in the control groups. 
 Example 19 Pharmaceutical preparations 
 Polypeptides Y46E, Q19K, Q19R, Q19K/Y46E, R11E/Y46E, Y46E-AN, Q19K-AN and Q19R/Y46E were prepared from the cultured medium of transformants JE5505 (pM575B), JE5505 (pM576), JE5505 (pM735), JE5505 (pM736), JE5505 (pM726B), JE5505 (pM575C), JE550 (pM576B) and JE5505 (pM737B) in accordance with the procedure in Example 2 (4). 
 Polypeptides Q19K/Y46D, Q19R/Y46D, R11Q/Q19K/Y46D, R11D/Q19K/Y46D, R11L/Q19K/Y46D, R11E/Q19K/Y46E, R11N/Q19K/Y46D, R11S/Q19K/Y46D and R11A/Q19K/Y46D were prepared by purification from the cultured medium of transformants JE5505 (pM727), JE5505 (pM744), JE5505 (pM741), JE5505 (pM742), JE5505 (pM743), JE5505 (pM738), JE5505 (pM764), JE5505 (pM765) and JE5505 (pM767) in accordance with the procedures described in Example 10(4) (5) and (6). 
 Each of purified polypeptides was dissolved in distilled water and then applied to an aforementioned membrane, OMEGACEL in order to remove LPS. Thereafter, each of the thus prepared polypeptide solutions was dried under reduced pressure and then made into pharmaceutical preparations in accordance with the following procedures (1) and (2). 
 (1) Each of the thus prepared polypeptide samples was dissolved, to a final concentration of 2 mg/ml, in 1/15M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) containing 0.1% (w/v) of pyrogen-free gelatin which had been prepared using distilled water for injection use. To the resulting solution of each polypeptide sample were added sodium chloride to a final concentration of 75 mM and mannitol to a final concentration of 2% (w/v). The thus prepared sample solution was sterilized by filtration through an aseptic membrane filter having a pore size of 0.22 μm (Disposable Sterile Filter System, Corning) and dispensed in 5 ml aliquots into glass vessels. 
 (2) Each of the thus prepared polypeptide samples was dissolved, to a final concentration of 2 mg/ml, in 0.01M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) containing 0.14M sodium chloride which had been prepared using distilled water for injection use. To the resulting solution of each polypeptide sample was added human serum albumin to a final concentration of 1% (w/v). The thus prepared sample solution was sterilized by filtration through the aforementioned aseptic membrane filter having a pore size of 0.22 μm (Disposable Sterile Filter System) and dispensed in 5 ml aliquots into glass vessels. Thereafter, the thus dispensed samples were freeze-dried and sealed. 
 Thus, it is apparent that there have been provided, in accordance with the present invention, novel polypeptides and processes for the production thereof. The present invention also provides DNA fragments which encode the novel polypeptides, vectors containing the DNA fragments and transformants transformed with the DNA fragments or the vectors. This invention also provides drug compositions which contain the novel polypeptides as the active ingredient, as well as enzyme inhibition processes in which the novel polypeptides are used. 
 The polypeptide of this invention can be used not only as an active ingredient of a drug composition but also for the purpose of preventing blood coagulation on the surface of medical instruments such as artificial blood vessels, artificial organs, catheters and the like, by binding or adsorbing the polypeptide to the surface of instruments making use of a cross-linking agent and the like. In consequence, this invention opens a new way for preventing and treating various diseases including protease-related diseases such as infestation, multiple-organ failure, shock, pancreatitis, disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome, ischemic heart disease, nephritis, hepatic cirrhosis, re-obstruction at the time of blood circulation reconstructive operation, edema caused by increased vascular permeability, adult respiratory distress syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, arthritis and allergic diseases. 
 Although some preferred embodiments have been described, many modifications and variations may be made thereto in the light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described. 
 
   __________________________________________________________________________
SEQUENCE LISTING                                                          
(1) GENERAL INFORMATION:                                                  
(iii) NUMBER OF SEQUENCES: 81                                             
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:1:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 313 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM575B)                                               
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 27..89                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
peptide"                                                                  
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 90..299                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="polypeptide Y46E"                        
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 27..299                                                     
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..313                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 9"                                                    
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:1:                                   
AAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGTACTATTGCACTGGCA53                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAla                                               
21-20-15                                                                  
CTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAGGCCACCGTCGCCGCC101                       
LeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLysAlaThrValAlaAla                          
10-51                                                                     
TGCAATCTCCCCATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCCAGCTC149                       
CysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleGlnLeu                          
5101520                                                                   
TGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGG197                       
TrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGly                          
253035                                                                    
GGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGAATCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGA245                       
GlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheGluSerGluLysGluCysArg                          
404550                                                                    
GAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTC293                       
GluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPhe                          
556065                                                                    
TCCAACTGACAACTGGATCC313                                                   
SerAsn                                                                    
70                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:2:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 91 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:2:                                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaThrValAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArg                          
51510                                                                     
GlyProCysArgAlaPheIleGlnLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLys                          
152025                                                                    
GlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsn                          
303540                                                                    
LysPheGluSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGly                          
455055                                                                    
AspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                         
606570                                                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:3:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 349 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM576)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..349                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in figure 16"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 44..106                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
peptide"                                                                  
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 107..316                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="polypeptide Q19K"                        
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..316                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:3:                                   
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
21- 20                                                                    
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
15-10-5                                                                   
GCCGACGACGCCGCCTGCAATCTCCCCATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGA151                       
AlaAspAspAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArg                          
151015                                                                    
GCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTC199                       
AlaPheIleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysVal                          
202530                                                                    
CTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCTACTCA247                       
LeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSer                          
354045                                                                    
GAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAG295                       
GluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGlu                          
505560                                                                    
GAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAACGAT346                    
GluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                                     
6570                                                                      
CGT349                                                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:4:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 91 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:4:                                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAspAspAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArg                          
51510                                                                     
GlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLys                          
152025                                                                    
GlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsn                          
303540                                                                    
LysPheTyrSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGly                          
455055                                                                    
AspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                         
606570                                                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:5:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 343 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM735)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..343                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 22"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 43..105                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
peptide"                                                                  
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 106..309                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="polypeptide Q19R"                        
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 43..309                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:5:                                   
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT54                  
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
21-20                                                                     
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG102                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
15-10-5                                                                   
GCCGCGGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTC150                       
AlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
ATCCGTCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTC198                       
IleArgLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
CCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCTACTCAGAGAAG246                       
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTG294                       
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
CTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAACGCATCGT343                      
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:6:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 89 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:6:                                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyPro                          
51510                                                                     
CysArgAlaPheIleArgLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLys                          
152025                                                                    
CysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPhe                          
303540                                                                    
TyrSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGly                          
455055                                                                    
AspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                               
6065                                                                      
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:7:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 344 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eshericia coli                                              
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM736)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..344                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 24"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 44..106                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
sequence"                                                                 
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 107..310                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
Q19K/Y46E"                                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..310                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:7:                                   
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
21- 20                                                                    
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
15-10-5                                                                   
GCCGCGGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTC151                       
AlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
ATCAAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTC199                       
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
CCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGAATCAGAGAAG247                       
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheGluSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTG295                       
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
CTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAACGCATCGT344                      
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:8:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 89 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:8:                                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyPro                          
51510                                                                     
CysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLys                          
152025                                                                    
CysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPhe                          
303540                                                                    
GluSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGly                          
455055                                                                    
AspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                               
6065                                                                      
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:9:                                          
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 344 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM726B)                                               
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..344                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 27"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 44..106                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
peptide"                                                                  
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 107..310                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="polypeptide R11E/Y46E"                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..310                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:9:                                   
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
21- 20                                                                    
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
15-10-5                                                                   
GCCGCGGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTCGAAGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTC151                       
AlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValGluGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
ATCCAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTC199                       
IleGlnLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
CCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGAATCAGAGAAG247                       
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheGluSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTG295                       
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
CTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAACGCATCGT344                      
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:10:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 89 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:10:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValGluGlyPro                          
51510                                                                     
CysArgAlaPheIleGlnLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLys                          
152025                                                                    
CysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPhe                          
303540                                                                    
GluSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGly                          
455055                                                                    
AspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                               
6065                                                                      
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:11:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 344 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eshericia coli                                              
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM575C)                                               
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..344                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 29"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 44..106                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
sequence"                                                                 
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 107..310                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
Y46E-AN"                                                                  
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..106                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:11:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
5101520                                                                   
GCCGCGGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCCA156                  
Ala                                                                       
GCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGCTGCCA216           
GGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGAATCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGG276           
TGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAA336           
CGCATCGT344                                                               
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:12:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 21 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:12:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
151015                                                                    
ProValThrLysAla                                                           
20                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:13:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 344 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5055 (pM576B)                                               
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..344                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 31"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 44..106                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
sequence"                                                                 
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 107..310                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
Q19K-AN"                                                                  
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..310                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:13:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
21- 20                                                                    
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
15-10-5                                                                   
GCCGCGGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTC151                       
AlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
ATCAAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTC199                       
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
CCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCTACTCAGAGAAG247                       
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTG295                       
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
CTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAACGCATCGT344                      
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:14:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 89 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:14:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyPro                          
51510                                                                     
CysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLys                          
152025                                                                    
CysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPhe                          
303540                                                                    
TyrSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGly                          
455055                                                                    
AspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                               
6065                                                                      
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:15:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 344 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM737B)                                               
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..344                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 33"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 44..106                                                     
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="pho A signal                       
peptide"                                                                  
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 107..310                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
Q19R/Y46E"                                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..310                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:15:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
21- 20                                                                    
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
15-10-5                                                                   
GCCGCGGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTC151                       
AlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
ATCCGTCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTC199                       
IleArgLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
CCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGAATCAGAGAAG247                       
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheGluSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTG295                       
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
CTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAACGCATCGT344                      
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:16:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 89 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:16:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyPro                          
51510                                                                     
CysArgAlaPheIleArgLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLys                          
152025                                                                    
CysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPhe                          
303540                                                                    
GluSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGly                          
455055                                                                    
AspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                               
6065                                                                      
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:17:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 379 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM727)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..379                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 36"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 143..346                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="Q19K/Y46D peptide"                 
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..346                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:17:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
33-30                                                                     
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
25-20-15                                                                  
GCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGT151                       
AlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCys                          
10-51                                                                     
AATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGG199                       
AsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrp                          
51015                                                                     
GCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGC247                       
AlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGly                          
20253035                                                                  
TGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAG295                       
CysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGlu                          
404550                                                                    
TACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCC343                       
TyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSer                          
556065                                                                    
AACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGACGCATCGT379                                   
Asn                                                                       
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:18:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:18:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
33-30-25- 20                                                              
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
15-10-5                                                                   
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:19:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 379 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eshericia coli                                              
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM744)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..379                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 37"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 143..346                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="Q19R/Y46D                          
polypeptide"                                                              
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..346                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:19:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
33-30                                                                     
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
25-20-15                                                                  
GCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGT151                       
AlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCys                          
10-51                                                                     
AATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCCGTCTCTGG199                       
AsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleArgLeuTrp                          
51015                                                                     
GCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGC247                       
AlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGly                          
20253035                                                                  
TGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAG295                       
CysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGlu                          
404550                                                                    
TACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCC343                       
TyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSer                          
556065                                                                    
AACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGACGCATCGT379                                   
Asn                                                                       
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:20:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:20:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
33-30-25- 20                                                              
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
15-10-5                                                                   
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
IleArgLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:21:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 380 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM741)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..380                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 39"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 145..347                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
R11Q/Q19K/Y46D"                                                           
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 45..347                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:21:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT56                
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
33- 30                                                                    
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG104                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
25-20-15                                                                  
GCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGT152                       
AlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCys                          
10-51                                                                     
AATCTACCAATAGTCCAGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGG200                       
AsnLeuProIleValGlnGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrp                          
51015                                                                     
GCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGC248                       
AlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGly                          
20253035                                                                  
TGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAG296                       
CysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGlu                          
404550                                                                    
TACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCC344                       
TyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSer                          
556065                                                                    
AACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGACGCATCGT380                                   
Asn                                                                       
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:22:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:22:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
33-30-25- 20                                                              
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
15-10-5                                                                   
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValGlnGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:23:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 379 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM742)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..379                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 41"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 143..346                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
R11D/Q19K/Y46D"                                                           
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..346                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:23:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
33-30                                                                     
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
25-20-15                                                                  
GCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGT151                       
AlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCys                          
10-51                                                                     
AATCTACCAATAGTCGATGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGG199                       
AsnLeuProIleValAspGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrp                          
51015                                                                     
GCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGC247                       
AlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGly                          
20253035                                                                  
TGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAG295                       
CysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGlu                          
404550                                                                    
TACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCC343                       
TyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSer                          
556065                                                                    
AACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGACGCATCGT379                                   
Asn                                                                       
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:24:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:24:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
33-30-25- 20                                                              
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
15-10-5                                                                   
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValAspGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:25:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 379 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM743)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..379                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 43"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 143..346                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
R11L/Q19K/Y46D"                                                           
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..346                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:25:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
33-30                                                                     
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
25-20-15                                                                  
GCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGT151                       
AlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCys                          
10-51                                                                     
AATCTACCAATAGTCCTGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGG199                       
AsnLeuProIleValLeuGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrp                          
51015                                                                     
GCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGC247                       
AlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGly                          
20253035                                                                  
TGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAG295                       
CysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGlu                          
404550                                                                    
TACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCC343                       
TyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSer                          
556065                                                                    
AACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGACGCATCGT379                                   
Asn                                                                       
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:26:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:26:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
33-30-25- 20                                                              
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
15-10-5                                                                   
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValLeuGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:27:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 379 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM738)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..379                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="as in Figure 44"                                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 143..346                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /standard_name="polypeptide                        
R11E/Q19K/Y46E"                                                           
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..346                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:27:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
33-30                                                                     
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
25-20-15                                                                  
GCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGT151                       
AlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCys                          
10-51                                                                     
AATCTACCAATAGTCGAAGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGG199                       
AsnLeuProIleValGluGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrp                          
51015                                                                     
GCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGC247                       
AlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGly                          
20253035                                                                  
TGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGAATCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAG295                       
CysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheGluSerGluLysGluCysArgGlu                          
404550                                                                    
TACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCC343                       
TyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSer                          
556065                                                                    
AACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGACGCATCGT379                                   
Asn                                                                       
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:28:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:28:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
33-30-25- 20                                                              
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
15-10-5                                                                   
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValGluGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheGluSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:29:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 343 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM764)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 126..329                                                    
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 27..329                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:29:                                  
AAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGTACTATTGCACTGGCA53                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAla                                               
33-30- 25                                                                 
CTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAGGCCGCTGTGCTACCG101                       
LeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuPro                          
20-15-10                                                                  
CAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTC149                       
GlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleVal                          
515                                                                       
AACGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTC197                       
AsnGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaVal                          
101520                                                                    
AAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGG245                       
LysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGly                          
25303540                                                                  
AACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCT293                       
AsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValPro                          
455055                                                                    
GGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGG339                         
GlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                      
6065                                                                      
ATCC343                                                                   
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:30:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:30:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
33-30-25- 20                                                              
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
15-10-5                                                                   
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValAsnGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
151015                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
202530                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
354045                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:31:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 343 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eshericia coli                                              
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM763)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 27..89                                                      
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 90..329                                                     
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 27..329                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:31:                                  
AAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGTACTATTGCACTGGCA53                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAla                                               
21-20-15                                                                  
CTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAGGCCGCTGTGCTACCG101                       
LeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuPro                          
10-51                                                                     
CAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTC149                       
GlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleVal                          
5101520                                                                   
AGCGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTC197                       
SerGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaVal                          
253035                                                                    
AAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGG245                       
LysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGly                          
404550                                                                    
AACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCT293                       
AsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValPro                          
556065                                                                    
GGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGG339                         
GlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                      
707580                                                                    
ATCC343                                                                   
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:32:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:32:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
51510                                                                     
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValSerGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
152025                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
303540                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
455055                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
60657075                                                                  
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
80                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:33:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 343 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(B) STRAIN: JE5505 (pM765)                                                
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: sig_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 27..89                                                      
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: mat_peptide                                                 
(B) LOCATION: 90..329                                                     
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 27..329                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:33:                                  
AAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGTACTATTGCACTGGCA53                   
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAla                                               
21-20-15                                                                  
CTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAGGCCGCTGTGCTACCG101                       
LeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuPro                          
10-51                                                                     
CAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTC149                       
GlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleVal                          
5101520                                                                   
GCGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTC197                       
AlaGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaVal                          
253035                                                                    
AAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGG245                       
LysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGly                          
404550                                                                    
AACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCT293                       
AsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValPro                          
556065                                                                    
GGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCCAACTGACAACTGG339                         
GlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                      
707580                                                                    
ATCC343                                                                   
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:34:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:34:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
21-20-15-10                                                               
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
51510                                                                     
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValAlaGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
152025                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
303540                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
455055                                                                    
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
60657075                                                                  
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
80                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:35:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:35:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:36:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:36:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
ArgLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:37:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:37:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValGlnGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:38:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:38:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValAspGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:39:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:39:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValLeuGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:40:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:40:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValGluGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheGluSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:41:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:41:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValAsnGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:42:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:42:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValSerGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:43:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: C-terminal                                             
(vi) ORIGINAL SOURCE:                                                     
(A) ORGANISM: Eschericia coli                                             
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:43:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValAlaGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
LysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:44:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 32 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..32                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=oligonucleotide                             
/note="Figure 1, S33"                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:44:                                  
AGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAAC32                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:45:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 36 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..36                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=oligonucleotide                             
/note="Figure 1, S34"                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:45:                                  
AGTACTTTGTTTCATTTTATTTTATACCCTTTTTTA36                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:46:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 38 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..38                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=oligonucleotide                             
/note="Figure 1, S35"                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:46:                                  
AAAGTACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTT38                                  
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:47:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 36 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..36                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=oligonucleotide                             
/note="Figure 1, S18"                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:47:                                  
AGGGGTAAACAGTAACGGTAAGAGTGCCAGTGCAAT36                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:48:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 32 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..32                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=oligonucleotide                             
/note="Figure 1, S19"                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:48:                                  
ACCCCTGTGACAAAAGCCGACTCCCTAGGTCG32                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:49:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 26 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..26                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=oligonucleotide                             
/note="Figure 1, S20"                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:49:                                  
GCACCTAGGGAGTCGGCTTTTGTCAC26                                              
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:50:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 25 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..25                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="Y46E primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:50:                                  
GGAACAAGTTCGAATCAGAGAAGGA25                                               
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:51:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 21 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..21                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="ScaI sense primer"                                                 
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:51:                                  
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTA21                                                   
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:52:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 26 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..26                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="Bam HI primer"                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:52:                                  
TGGATCCAGTTGTCAGTTGGAGAAGC26                                              
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:53:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 28 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..28                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=oligonucleotide                             
/note="oligomer TV12DD"                                                   
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:53:                                  
TGACAAAGGCCGACGACGCCGCCTGCAA28                                            
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:54:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 21 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..21                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="HindIII primer"                                                    
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:54:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGC21                                                   
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:55:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 31 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..31                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="Q19K primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:55:                                  
CAAATGCCCAGAGCTTGATGAAGGCTCGGCA31                                         
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:56:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 21 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..21                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="pBR BamHI primer"                                                  
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:56:                                  
ACGATGCGTTCCGGCGTAGAG21                                                   
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:57:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 40 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..40                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="AN68 primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:57:                                  
CTATTGGTAGATTACAGGCCGCGGCCTTTGTCACAGGGGT40                                
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:58:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 30 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..30                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="SacII primer"                                                      
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:58:                                  
AAGGCCGCGGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTC30                                          
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:59:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 32 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..32                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="Q19R primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:59:                                  
ATCAAATGCCCAGAGACGGATGAAGGCTCGGC32                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:60:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 27 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..27                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="R11E primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:60:                                  
TCGGCAGGGGCCTTCGACTATTGGTAG27                                             
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:61:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 155 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 5..151                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=linker                                      
/note="double stranded portion of Linker 710                              
(Figure34)."                                                              
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: misc_feature                                                
(B) LOCATION: 1..4                                                        
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=5'_extension                                
/note="HindII compatible 5'overhang"                                      
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: misc_feature                                                
(B) LOCATION: 151..155                                                    
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=3'_extension                                
/note="ApaI compatible 3'overhang"                                        
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:61:                                  
AGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGTACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACC60            
GTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAGGCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGG120           
TATGGCCGCCTGTAATCTACCAATAGTCCGGGGCC155                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:62:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 25 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..25                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="Y46D primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:62:                                  
GGGAACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGG25                                               
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:63:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 25 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..25                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="R11Q primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:63:                                  
CGGCAGGGGCCCTGGACTATTGGTA25                                               
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:64:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 25 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..25                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="R11D primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:64:                                  
CGGCAGGGGCCATCGACTATTGGTA25                                               
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:65:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 25 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..25                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=primer                                      
/note="R11L primer"                                                       
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:65:                                  
CGGCAGGGGCCCAGGACTATTGGTA25                                               
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:66:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 153 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..153                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="Formula 2, encodes the amino acid sequence                         
of Formula 1"                                                             
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 1..153                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="FXa inhibitor"                           
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:66:                                  
TGCAATCTCCCCATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCCAGCTC48                        
CysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleGlnLeu                          
151015                                                                    
TGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGG96                        
TrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGly                          
202530                                                                    
GGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCTACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGA144                       
GlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSerGluLysGluCysArg                          
354045                                                                    
GAGTACTGC153                                                              
GluTyrCys                                                                 
50                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:67:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 51 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:67:                                  
CysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleGlnLeu                          
151015                                                                    
TrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGly                          
202530                                                                    
GlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSerGluLysGluCysArg                          
354045                                                                    
GluTyrCys                                                                 
50                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:68:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 12 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..12                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=5'_extension                                
/note="preferable additional amino terminal                               
codons for peptide protease inhibitors"                                   
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 1..12                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="amino terminal addition"                 
/note="preferable amino acids to be added to                              
amino terminus of peptide protease inhibitors"                            
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:68:                                  
GACGACGCCGCC12                                                            
AspAspAlaAla                                                              
1                                                                         
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:69:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 4 amino acids                                                 
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:69:                                  
AspAspAlaAla                                                              
1                                                                         
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:70:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 12 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..12                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="preferable codons as 5'extensions of DNA                           
encoding peptide protease inhibitors"                                     
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 1..12                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="amino terminal                           
extension"                                                                
/note="preferable amino acids for amino terminal                          
extension of peptide protease inhibitors"                                 
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:70:                                  
ACCGTCGCCGCC12                                                            
ThrValAlaAla                                                              
1                                                                         
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:71:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 4 amino acids                                                 
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:71:                                  
ThrValAlaAla                                                              
1                                                                         
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:72:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 45 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..45                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="preferable codons encoding carboxy                                 
terminal extension of peptide protease inhibitors"                        
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 1..45                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /product="carboxy terminal amino                   
acids"                                                                    
/note="preferable amino acids for carboxy                                 
terminal extension of peptide protease inhibitors"                        
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:72:                                  
GGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCCAAC45                           
GlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                             
151015                                                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:73:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 15 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:73:                                  
GlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                             
151015                                                                    
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:74:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 210 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: double                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: DNA (genomic)                                         
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..210                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="encodes TN70 polypeptide"                                          
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 1..210                                                      
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:74:                                  
ACCGTCGCCGCCTGCAATCTCCCCATAGTCCGGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCC48                        
ThrValAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAla                          
151015                                                                    
TTCATCCAGCTCTGGGCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTC96                        
PheIleGlnLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeu                          
202530                                                                    
TTCCCCTACGGGGGCTGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCTACTCAGAG144                       
PheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSerGlu                          
354045                                                                    
AAGGAGTGCAGAGAGTACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAG192                       
LysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGlu                          
505560                                                                    
CTGCTGCGCTTCTCCAAC210                                                     
LeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                                        
6570                                                                      
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:75:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 70 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:75:                                  
ThrValAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAla                          
151015                                                                    
PheIleGlnLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeu                          
202530                                                                    
PheProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSerGlu                          
354045                                                                    
LysGluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGlu                          
505560                                                                    
LeuLeuArgPheSerAsn                                                        
6570                                                                      
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:76:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 68 amino acids                                                
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(v) FRAGMENT TYPE: internal                                               
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: Protein                                                     
(B) LOCATION: 1..68                                                       
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=sequence                                    
/note="AN68 polypeptide"                                                  
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:76:                                  
AlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValArgGlyProCysArgAlaPheIle                          
151015                                                                    
GlnLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhePro                          
202530                                                                    
TyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheTyrSerGluLysGlu                          
354045                                                                    
CysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeu                          
505560                                                                    
ArgPheSerAsn                                                              
65                                                                        
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:77:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 27 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: Not Relevant                                                
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: other nucleic acid                                    
(A) DESCRIPTION: /desc ="synthetic DNA primer R11N,                       
see fig. 56"                                                              
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: YES                                                      
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:77:                                  
TCGGCAGGGGCCGTTGACTATTGGTAG27                                             
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:78:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 27 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: Not Relevant                                                
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: other nucleic acid                                    
(A) DESCRIPTION: /desc ="synthetic DNA primer R11S,                       
see figure 57"                                                            
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: YES                                                      
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:78:                                  
TCGGCAGGGGCCGCTGACTATTGGTAG27                                             
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:79:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 27 base pairs                                                 
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single                                                  
(D) TOPOLOGY: Not Relevant                                                
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: other nucleic acid                                    
(A) DESCRIPTION: /desc ="synthetic DNA primer R11A,                       
see figure 58"                                                            
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:79:                                  
TCGGCAGGGGCCCGCGACTATTGGTAG27                                             
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:80:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 380 base pairs                                                
(B) TYPE: nucleic acid                                                    
(C) STRANDEDNESS: Not Relevant                                            
(D) TOPOLOGY: Not Relevant                                                
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: cDNA                                                  
(iii) HYPOTHETICAL: NO                                                    
(iv) ANTI-SENSE: NO                                                       
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: -                                                           
(B) LOCATION: 1..380                                                      
(D) OTHER INFORMATION: /label=fragment                                    
/note="HindIII to BamHI fragment of pM767, see figure 61"                 
(ix) FEATURE:                                                             
(A) NAME/KEY: CDS                                                         
(B) LOCATION: 44..346                                                     
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:80:                                  
ACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGCTTAAAAAAGGGTATAAAATAAAATGAAACAAAGT55                 
MetLysGlnSer                                                              
1                                                                         
ACTATTGCACTGGCACTCTTACCGTTACTGTTTACCCCTGTGACAAAG103                       
ThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThrProValThrLys                          
5101520                                                                   
GCCGCTGTGCTACCGCAAGAAGAAGAAGGCTCGGGTATGGCCGCCTGT151                       
AlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGlyMetAlaAlaCys                          
253035                                                                    
AATCTACCAATAGTCGCGGGCCCCTGCCGAGCCTTCATCAAGCTCTGG199                       
AsnLeuProIleValAlaGlyProCysArgAlaPheIleLysLeuTrp                          
404550                                                                    
GCATTTGATGCTGTCAAGGGGAAGTGCGTCCTCTTCCCCTACGGGGGC247                       
AlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPheProTyrGlyGly                          
556065                                                                    
TGCCAGGGCAACGGGAACAAGTTCGACTCAGAGAAGGAGTGCAGAGAG295                       
CysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLysGluCysArgGlu                          
707580                                                                    
TACTGCGGTGTCCCTGGTGATGGTGATGAGGAGCTGCTGCGCTTCTCC343                       
TyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeuLeuArgPheSer                          
859095100                                                                 
AACTGACAACTGGATCCTCTACGCCGGAACGCATCGT380                                  
Asn                                                                       
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:81:                                         
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:                                             
(A) LENGTH: 101 amino acids                                               
(B) TYPE: amino acid                                                      
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear                                                      
(ii) MOLECULE TYPE: protein                                               
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:81:                                  
MetLysGlnSerThrIleAlaLeuAlaLeuLeuProLeuLeuPheThr                          
151015                                                                    
ProValThrLysAlaAlaValLeuProGlnGluGluGluGlySerGly                          
202530                                                                    
MetAlaAlaCysAsnLeuProIleValAlaGlyProCysArgAlaPhe                          
354045                                                                    
IleLysLeuTrpAlaPheAspAlaValLysGlyLysCysValLeuPhe                          
505560                                                                    
ProTyrGlyGlyCysGlnGlyAsnGlyAsnLysPheAspSerGluLys                          
65707580                                                                  
GluCysArgGluTyrCysGlyValProGlyAspGlyAspGluGluLeu                          
859095                                                                    
LeuArgPheSerAsn                                                           
100                                                                       
__________________________________________________________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
