
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 The present invention relates to Nocardia sp. CYKS2 capable of desulfurizing fossil fuel containing organic sulfur compounds, more specifically, to Nocardia sp. CYKS2 capable of selective removal of organically bound sulfurs from carbonaceous fossil fuel such as petroleum and coal by cleaving bonds between carbon and sulfur atoms in the said sulfur-containing organic compounds, and a method for biological desulfurization using this strain at the room temperature and atmospheric pressure. 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 Sulfur oxide (SO x ), which is generated from the combustion of more than 200 kinds of organic sulfur compounds contained in petroleum, causes not only air pollution but also acid rain and exerts a bad influence on the ecosystem. In this connection, the desulfurization is essential in order to reduce the sulfur contents in fossil fuel. For the desulfurization of petroleum products, the hydrodesulfurization has been conventionally carried out by adding hydrogen at the high temperature of 300-360° C. and high pressure of 35-170 atm. 
 However, in case of the more complex compounds than dibenzothiophene (“DBT”), which constitutes more than 30% of whole sulfur-containing organic materials in fossil fuel, the hydrodesulfurization is no more effective, and deep desulfurization has been regarded as an alternative way of removing sulfur from these materials, though it depends on the nature of crude oil and its composition. 
 Under the circumstances, there are strong reasons for exploring and developing a novel desulfurization method which consumes little energy, since the chemical methods such as the hydrodesulfurization and deep desulfurization have been proven less satisfactory in terms of the economy of maintenance, exhaustion of low sulfur-containing crude oil and environmental destruction. 
 Unlike the prior art chemical methods, biological desulfurization can be carried out at the room temperature and atmospheric pressure. In this regard, desulfurizing bacteria has been utilized for saving the cost for the installation and operation, when compared with previous chemical desulfurization using hydrogen. Especially, the biological method has a merit in a sense that the organic sulfur compounds which are more complex than DBT can be readily desulfurized. 
 In general, biological desulfurization of fossil fuel using microorganisms may be carried out under the aerobic or anaerobic condition. Accordingly, the desulfurization using aerobic bacteria has advantages as followings: It can be operated in an efficient and speedy manner; it does not consume expensive hydrogen; and, it does not require additives or equipments to maintain the electrical reducing potential and the anaerobic state. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 The present inventors have made an effort to screen desulfurizing bacteria capable of selective removal of organically bound sulfur from carbonaceous fossil fuel from waste water environment contaminated by crude oil, and finally isolated and identified a novel Nocardia species which can desulfurize DBT and more complex organic sulfur compounds at the room temperature and atmospheric pressure. 
 The primary object of the present invention is, therefore, to provide a novel Nocardia species capable of desulfurizing fossil fuel containing organic sulfur compounds. 
 The other object of the invention is to provide a method for biological desulfurization using the said microorganism. 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS 
 The above and the other objects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following descriptions given in conjunction with accompanying drawings, in which: 
 FIG. 1 is a graph showing the elimination of dibenzothiophene by Nocardia sp. CYKS2 in dibenzothiophene/ethanol system. 
 FIG. 2 a  is a gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy (GC-EI/MS) pattern of 2-hydroxy biphenyl(2-HBP), a metabolite of dibenzothiophene by Nocardia sp. CYKS2. 
 FIG. 2 b  is a gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy (GC-EI/MS) pattern of dibenzothiophene sulfone, a metabolite of dibenzothiophene by Nocardia sp. CYKS2. 
 FIG. 3 is a graph showing the elimination of dibenzothiophene by Nocardia sp. CYKS2 in dibenzothiophene/hexadecane system. 
 FIG. 4 is a graph showing the changes in sulfur content in diesel oil treated with Nocardia sp. CYKS2. 
 FIG. 5 is GC-SCD chromatograms of diesel oil desulfurized by Nocardia sp. CYKS2. 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 The present inventors have screened a novel desulfurizing bacterium which belongs to Nocardia species as followings: Desulfurizing microorganisms are first selected from contaminated waste water by continuous and enrichment culture supplemented DBT, and then cultivated in a growth medium containing DBT as a sole sulfur source. Then, they finally isolated a Nocardia sp. strain capable of desulfurizing DBT, which also utilizes various organic sulfur compounds in fossil fuel besides DBT. The Nocardia sp. strain thus isolated was designated as ‘Nocardia sp. CYKS2’ and deposited with Korean Collection for Type Cultures (KCTC, #52, Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, Taejon 305-333, Republic of Korea), an international depository authority as accession No. KCTC 0432BP on Jan. 23, 1998. 
 As described in Examples below, Nocardia sp. CYKS2 (KCTC 0432BP) removes sulfur selectively from DBT and converts DBT to 2-hydroxy biphenyl(2-HBP) via dibenzothiophene sulfone. The said strain eliminates only sulfur from organic sulfur compounds by the metabolic pathway, without affecting on the other atoms or bonds between carbons in the compounds. 
 On the other hand, the biological desulfurization of organic sulfur using Nocardia sp. CYKS2 strain is performed by inoculating Nocardia sp. CYKS2 (KCTC 0432BP) to a minimal salt medium containing organic sulfur compounds and culturing the microorganism under an aerobic condition at the temperature of 20-37° C. 
 In carrying out the biological desulfurization, the minimal salt medium includes Na 2 HPO 4  1.5 g/l, KH 2 PO 4  4.5 g/l, MgCl 2  0.2 g/l, NH 4 Cl 2 g/l, CaCl 2  0.02 g/l, trace element solution (containing FeCl 2  2100 mg/l,  CoCl       2  250 mg/l, NiCl 2  24 mg/l,  MnCl       2  100 mg/,  CUCl       2  5 mg/l,  ZnCl       2  144 mg/l,  boric acid  30 mg/l and MoCl 3  36 mg/l) and vitamin solution(containing folic acid 0.025 mg/l,  riboflavin  2 mg/l, lipoic acid 0.05 mg/l, biotin 1 mg/l, nicotinic acid 3.5 mg/l, thiamin chloride 3 mg/l, p- aminobenzoic acid  2 mg/l, pyridoxal chloride 1 mg/l, calcium pantothenate 1 mg/l and vitamin B 12  0.5 mg/l). 
 Organic sulfur compounds which can be desulfurized by the biological desulfurizing method includes methyl sulfide, thiophene, thiazole, 2-methyl thiophene, 3-methyl thiophene, 4,5-dimethyl thiophene, thianaphthene, phenyl sulfide, benzyl sulfide, dibenzothiosulfone, and fossil fuel like crude oil, petroleum and diesel oil containing these organic sulfur compounds. 
 In desulfurization of materials containing organic sulfur compounds, one or more of the whole cell or the cell extract of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 strain, recombinant microorganism harboring genes related to desulfurization and enzyme isolated from these organisms may be utilized. 
 The present invention is further illustrated in the following examples, which should not be taken to limit the scope of the invention. 
 EXAMPLE 1 
 Screening and identification of desulfurizing bacterium 
 Microorganisms collected from waste water released from the dye industry complex in Taegu, Korea, were employed to investigate their desulfurizing activity by the screening method described in Example 2 below. In this screening, a strain with the highest activity was finally selected and identified (see: Table 1). 
 Based on the chemotaxonomic analysis of the strain shown in Table 1 and the previous reports in the publication (see: International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology, 47:127-131(1997)), the selected bacterium is identified as a novel strain belonging to Nocardia sp. The strain thus prepared was designated as ‘Nocardia sp. CYKS2’ and deposited with Korean Collection for Type Cultures (KCTC, #52, Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, Taejon 305-333, Republic of Korea), an international depository authority as accession No. KCTC 0432BP on Jan. 23, 1998. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 1 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Chemotaxonomic analysis of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 
 
 
 
 
   
 Analysis 
 Result 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 Quinone 
 Detected: Menaquinone MK-8 (H 4 ) 
 
 
   
 Diaminopimelic acid 
 Detected: meso-diaminopimelic acid 
 
 
   
 Mycolic acid 
 Detected 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 EXAMPLE 2 
 Desulfurizing activity of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 in dibenzothiophene/ethanol system 
 Desulfurizing activity was measured under a growth condition employing a medium containing DBT dissolved in ethanol supplemented as a sole sulfur source. That is, DBT dissolved in anhydrous ethanol was added to the concentration of 0.2 mM (0.0386 g/l) into 20 ml of sterilized minimal salt medium (Na 2 HPO 4  1.5 g/l, KH 2 PO 4  4.5 g/l, MgCl 2  0.2 g/l, NH 4 Cl 2 g/l, CaCl 2  0.02 g/l, trace element solution 1 ml/l and vitamin solution 1 ml/l) containing 10 g/l of glucose. The composition of trace element solution used above was FeCl 2  2100 mg/l,  CoCl       2  250 mg/l, NiCl 2  24 mg/l,  MnCl       2  100 mg/l,  CuCl       2  5 mg/l,  ZnCl       2  144 mg/l,  boric acid  30 mg/l and MoCl 3  36 mg/l, and vitamin solution includes folic acid 0.025 mg/l,  riboflavin  2 mg/l, lipoic acid 0.05 mg/l, biotin 1 mg/l, nicotinic acid 3.5 mg/l, thiamin chloride 3 mg/l, p- aminobenzoic acid  2 mg/l, pyridoxal chloride 1 mg/l, calcium pantothenate 1 mg/l and vitamin B 12  0.5 mg/l. 
 Nocardia sp. CYKS2 was inoculated into the medium described above and its growth rate was measured at the appropriate time intervals. As shown in FIG. 1, after 60 hours of incubation, all of DBT (0.2 mM) was degraded via dibenzothiophene sulfone to 2-hydroxy biphenyl. DBT and its metabolites were quantitatively analysed by L-6200 intelligent pump and HPLC (Hitachi, Japan) equipped with L-4200H UV -VIS detector at 280 nm wavelength, and also determined by employing a gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-EI/MS) (see: FIGS. 2 a  and  2   b ). For this analysis, 10 μl of supernatant after ethyl acetate extraction of cell culture broth was injected and fractionated through C18 or phenyl column. Cell mass was determined by measuring the absorbance of culture broth samples at 600 nm (A 600 ), and after 60 hours of incubation, the absorbance reached to a value of 8.5, which corresponds to about 2.2 g (dry weight)/l. When DBT was depleted, the lag state of cell growth was observed, while glucose still remained in the medium, which indicates that DBT is utilized as a sole sulfur source. 
 EXAMPLE 3 
 Desulfurizing activity of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 in dibenzothiophene/hexadecane system 
 Desulfurizing activity of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 was measured, using DBT dissolved in hexadecane as a sole sulfur source: 2 ml of DBT in 10 mM hexadecane was added to 20 ml of sterilized minimal salt medium containing 10 g/l of glucose. After inoculation of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 at 33° C., changes in DBT concentration were observed analogously as in Example 2 (see: FIG.  3 ). As shown in FIG. 3, the concentration decreased from 10 mM to 1.62 mM after 80 hours of incubation, which indicates the elimination of DBT from the medium in efficient and speedy manner. 
 EXAMPLE 4 
 Desulfurizing activity of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 for various organic sulfur compounds 
 Desulfurizing activities of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 for various organic sulfur compounds which have been known to be contained in petroleum were measured. As shown in Table 2, desulfurizing activities were valid for other thiophene derivatives, sulfides, disulfides and thiazole derivatives. In Table 2, the absorbance at 600 nm represents the concentration of cell culture after 4 days incubation using each of the said sulfur compounds as a sole sulfur source. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Utilization of various organic compounds of Nocardia sp. 
 
 
 CYKS2 (KCTC 0432BP) 
 
 
 
 
   
 Organic Sulfur Compounds 
 Absorbance(at 600 nm) 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 Methyl sulfide 
 1.82 
 
 
   
 Thiophene 
 1.76 
 
 
   
 Thiazole 
 1.58 
 
 
   
 Methyl disufide 
 1.84 
 
 
   
 2-methyl thiophene 
 1.54 
 
 
   
 3-methyl thiophene 
 1.63 
 
 
   
 4,5-dimethyl thiazole 
 1.93 
 
 
   
 Thianaphthene 
 1.53 
 
 
   
 Trithiane 
 0.01 
 
 
   
 Phenyl sulfide 
 1.76 
 
 
   
 Dibenzothiophene 
 1.73 
 
 
   
 2-methyl-β-naphthiothiazole 
 1.74 
 
 
   
 Benzyl sulfide 
 1.24 
 
 
   
 Thianthrene 
 0.12 
 
 
   
 p-tolyl disulfide 
 1.66 
 
 
   
 Benzyl disulfide 
 1.38 
 
 
   
 Dibenzothiophene sulfone 
 1.56 
 
 
   
 Benzyl sulfone 
 0.02 
 
 
   
 4,4-thiodiphenol 
 0.28 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Example 5 
 Desulfurizing activity of Nocardia sp. CYKS2 for diesel oil 
 To measure desulfurizing activity for diesel oil, 2 ml of light gas oil (“LGO”) containing 0.3 wt % of sulfur was mixed with 20 ml of glucose-minimal salt medium in an analogous manner as in Example 2. For 90 hours after inoculation, changes of sulfur content in diesel oil were monitored by gas chromatography through HP-5 column (30 cm×0.5 mm×0.32 μm) and SCD (sulfur chemiluminescence detector) for selective detection of sulfur compounds. The condition for GC (gas chromatography) analysis was as followings: The temperature of inlet was maintained at 250° C., and, the temperature of oven was controlled at 120° C. for initial 2 minutes and elevated up to 300° C. gradually at a rate of 10° C./min then held at 300° C. for 2 minutes. Nitrogen gas flowed into column at a rate of 2.0 ml/min. SCD was maintained at a temperature of 770-780° C., and the flow rates of hydrogen gas and air were 100 ml/min and 40 ml/min, respectively. 
 As shown in FIG. 4, after 60 hours of incubation, sulfur content in diesel oil decreased from 0.3 wt % to 0.235 wt %. In the case of adding 1 ml of LGO to 20 ml of medium (i.e., LGO:medium=1:20), sulfur content in diesel oil decreased from 0.3 wt % to 0.206 wt % after 48 hours of incubation (see: FIG.  5 ). In FIG. 5, the upper and lower chromatograms show the signals before and after desulfurization of LGO by Nocardia sp. CYKS2. Accordingly, it was clearly demostrated that Nocardia sp. CYKS2 is capable of desulfurizing various organic sulfur compounds including LGO. 
 As clearly demonstrated and explained above, the present invention provides a novel Nocardia sp. CYKS2 capable of selective removal of organically bound sulfurs from carbonaceous fossil fuel such as petroleum and coal by cleaving bonds between carbon and sulfur atoms of the said sulfur-containing organic compounds, and a method for biological desulfurization using this strain at the room temperature and atmospheric pressure. The method for biological desulfurization employing Nocardia sp. CYKS2 has advantages over the convantional chemical methods as followings: The desulfurization can be carried out at a mild condition; the cost for installation and operation of equipments can be reduced; and, the desulfurization of highly complex organic sulfur compounds can be realized. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
