
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/671,449 filed Apr. 14, 2005. 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 This invention is in the field of microbiology and molecular biology. More specifically, this invention pertains to nucleic acid molecules that encode oxygen-binding proteins and their use in improving carotenoid production. 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 Carotenoids are pigments that are ubiquitous throughout nature and synthesized by all photosynthetic organisms and in some heterotrophic bacteria and fungi. Carotenoids provide color for flowers, vegetables, insects, fish and birds. Colors of carotenoid range from yellow to red with variations of brown and purple. As precursors of vitamin A, carotenoids are fundamental components in the human diet and play an important role in human health. Animals are unable to synthesize carotenoids de novo and must obtain them through diet. Manipulation of carotenoid composition and production in plants or bacteria can provide new and/or improved sources of carotenoids. Industrial uses of carotenoids include, among others, pharmaceuticals, food supplements, animal feed additives, and colorants in cosmetics. 
 The genetics of carotenoid biosynthesis are well known (Armstrong, G., in  Comprehensive Natural Products Chemistry , Elsevier Press,  volume  2, pp 321–352 (1999)); Lee, P. and Schmidt-Dannert, C.,  Appl Microbiol Biotechnol,  60:1–11 (2002); Lee et al.,  Chem Biol  10:453–462 (2003), and Fraser, P. and Bramley, P. ( Progress in Lipid Research,  43:228–265 (2004)). This pathway is extremely well studied in the Gram-negative, pigmented bacteria of the genera  Pantoea , formerly known as  Erwinia . Of particular interest are the genes responsible for the production of C 40  carotenoids used as pigments in animal feed (e.g., canthaxanthin and astaxanthin). 
 The genes associated with carotenoid biosynthesis (C 40 ) can be generally divided into two categories of genes: 1) the C 40  carotenoid backbone biosynthesis genes responsible for the elongation, desaturation, and cyclization steps necessary for the synthesis of the 40-carbon backbone (i.e., the crtE, crtB, crtI, and crtY genes responsible for the biosynthesis of β-carotene) and 2) subsequent carotenoid modification genes (i.e., crtW, crtO, crtZ, etc.), which introduce various functional groups (e.g., keto groups and hydroxyl groups) to the 40-carbon backbone. The biosynthesis of ketocarotenoids and hydroxylated carotenoids is of particular interest as they are commercially important pigments (e.g., canthaxanthin, astaxanthin, zeaxanthin, etc.) used in a variety of applications, including the animal feed market. Recombinant expression of the genes involved in carotenoid production has been reported in a variety of hosts. 
 Ketocarotenoid biosynthesis typically requires expression of a carotenoid ketolase. Two classes of carotenoid ketolase have been reported (CrtW/bkt and CrtO). The two classes have similar functionality yet appear to have arisen independently as they share very little sequence similarity (U.S. Pat. No. 6,984,523 and U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433, each incorporated herein by reference). Carotenoid ketolases introduce keto groups to the ionone ring of cyclic carotenoids forming ketocarotenoids including, but not limited to echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3′-hydroxyechinenone, adonixanthin, adonirubin, canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
 Biosynthesis of hydroxylated carotenoids typically requires expression of a carotenoid hydroxylase. Carotenoid hydroxylases introduce hydroxyl groups to the ionone ring of the cyclic carotenoids, such as β-carotene or canthaxanthin. Bacterial biosynthesis of astaxanthin requires functional expression of both a carotenoid ketolase and a CrtZ carotenoid hydroxylase, which is encoded by a crtZ gene as reported in U.S. Ser. No. 11/200,394, incorporated herein by reference. Besides astaxanthin, examples of hydroxylated carotenoids include β-cryptoxanthin, zeaxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3′-hydroxyechinenone, adonirubin, adonixanthin, tetrahydroxy-β,β′-caroten-4,4′-dione, tetrahydroxy-β,β′-caroten-4-one, caloxanthin, erythroxanthin, nostoxanthin, flexixanthin, 3-hydroxy-γ-carotene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-γ-carotene, bacteriorubixanthin, bacteriorubixanthinal, and lutein. 
 It has been reported for microbial carotenoid production that the concentration of dissolved oxygen within a microbial culture affects the carotenoid production profile (U.S. Pat. No. 6,825,002 to Tsubokura et al.). This is because both carotenoid ketolases and carotenoid hydroxylases require molecular oxygen to synthesize canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. Conversion of β-carotene to canthaxanthin and/or astaxanthin, as well as various intermediates in the pathway, can be adversely affected under oxygen limited conditions. 
 A problem in large-scale fermentation is that increasing dissolved oxygen mechanistically is costly and often not workable. A biological method is therefore needed to increase the overall availability of cellular oxygen, that is, to increase internal O 2  tension within a recombinant microbial cell. One way to do this is to increase the cellular components that aid in the intracellular storage and delivery of oxygen. It has been reported that bacterial hemoglobins, a subset of the larger hemoglobin-like superfamily, perform these functions (Frey, A. D. and Kallio, P. T.,  FEMS Microbiol Rev.  27:525–545 (2003)). Three different types of bacterial hemoglobins have been identified: 1) the  Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin (VHb), 2) the flavohemoglobins (FHb), and 3) the truncated hemoglobins (trHb). The truncated hemoglobins are further divided into 3 groups, Group I (HbN-type), Group II (HbO-type), and Group III (HbP-type). All bacterial hemoglobins are able to reversibly bind molecular oxygen. 
 The  Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin (VHb) is the most widely studied bacterial hemoglobin. Recombinant expression of VHb has been reported to improve the growth characteristics and productivity of various proteins in microorganisms grown under microaerobic/oxygen limited conditions (Frey, A. D. and Kallio, P. T., supra; Bollinger et al.,  Biotechnol. Prog.  17:798–808 (2001); and U.S. Pat. No. 5,049,493 to Khosla et al.). 
 However, a method of using recombinant bacterial hemoglobin expression to alter carotenoid titer and/or production of oxygenated carotenoids (i.e., xanthophylls such as canthaxanthin and/or astaxanthin) has not been reported. Furthermore, a method of using a truncated bacterial hemoglobin, which is structurally unrelated to the  Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin, to improve overall growth and/or carotenoid production in a recombinant microbial host cell has not been reported. 
 Recombinant expression of truncated bacterial hemoglobins from  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  has been reported (Pathania et al.,  J. Biol. Chem.,  277:15293–15302 (2002)). Pathania et al. report that the truncated hemoglobins HbN and HbO from  M. tuberculosis  share little structural similarity in their EF-loop regions, suggesting distinct function(s) for each. Recombinant expression of the  M. tuberculosis  HbO resulted in a significant increase in cell mass and higher oxygen update in aerobically growing cells. Given the desirable effects on overall cell growth, there remains a need to identify additional truncated bacterial hemoglobins, especially from non-pathogenic organisms, useful for industrial biotechnology. 
 The problem to be solved therefore is to provide an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a truncated bacterial hemoglobin isolated from a non-pathogenic microorganism capable of increasing the growth rate and/or carotenoid production when recombinantly expressed in a carotenogenic host cell. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 The present invention provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a truncated bacterial hemoglobin gene capable of increasing the growth rate and/or carotenoid production of a microbial cell when grown under microaerobic conditions. In one embodiment, the present invention comprises an isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of:
         (a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:2, 4, and 6;   (b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following hybridization conditions 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C.;   (c) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, and 6; and   (d) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that is complementary to (a), (b), or (c).       
 In another embodiment, the invention also includes a chimeric gene comprising the present isolated nucleic acid molecule operably linked to a suitable regulatory sequence and transformed host cells comprising said chimeric gene. 
 In another embodiment, a method of increasing the growth rate of a microbial host cell grown under microaerobic conditions is provided comprising:
         (a) providing a microbial host cell;   (b) transforming the microbial host cell of (a) with the nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of:
           (i) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 2, 4 and 6;   (ii) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C.;   (iii) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 2, 4 and 6; and   (iv) isolated nucleic acid molecule that is complementary to (i), (ii), or (iii); and   
   (c) growing the transformed microbial host cell of (b) under microaerobic conditions whereby the growth rate of the transformed host cell is increased.       
 In another embodiment, a method is provided to produce carotenoids or increase carotenoid-production (i.e., overall titer and/or conversion rates) in a carotenogenic microbial host cell when grown under microaerobic conditions, said method comprising:
         (a) providing a carotenogenic host cell; wherein said carotenogenic host cell comprises more than two copies of a carotenoid ketolase gene or a carotenoid hydroxylase gene;   (b) transforming the carotenogenic host cell of (a) with the nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of:
           (i) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, and 6;   (ii) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C.;   (iii) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, and 6; and   (iv) isolated nucleic acid molecule that is complementary to (i), (ii), or (iii); and   
   (c) growing the transformed host cell of (b) under microaerobic conditions whereby a carotenoid compound is produced.       
 A further aspect of the invention provides isolated polypeptides encoded by the present nucleic acid molecules as well as genetic chimera and transformed hosts comprising these polypeptides. 
 In all aspects of the invention, the transformed host cell is selected from bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, and algae. In a further aspect, the bacterial host cell is a methylotrophic bacteria. In yet a further aspect, the methylotrophic bacteria is a high-growth methanotrophic bacteria. In a specific embodiment, the methylotrophic bacteria is selected from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof engineered to produce ketocarotenoids and/or hydroxylated carotenoids, such as canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES AND SEQUENCE DESCRIPTIONS 
   FIG. 1  shows the biosynthetic pathway for the production of canthaxanthin and astaxanthin from a variety of possible precursors via ketolase and/or hydroxylase reactions from β-carotene. 
   FIG. 2  shows the various types of bacterial hemoglobins. 
   FIG. 3  shows the growth effects of recombinant bacterial hemoglobins expressed in  E. coli  from the expression vector pTrcHis2-TOPO® (top panel) or pBHR1 vector (bottom panel). 
   FIG. 4  shows the effects of multicopy expression of bacterial hemoglobins in  Methylomonas  sp. on astaxanthin selectivity (“AST %”; top panel) and relative astaxanthin amount (relative amount based on peak area of HPLC results normalized by cell density; bottom panel). 
   FIG. 5  shows the effects of multicopy expression of bacterial hemoglobins with the crtWZ in  Methylomonas  on astaxanthin selectivity (“AST %”; top panel) and relative astaxanthin amount (relative amount based on peak area of HPLC results normalized by cell density; bottom panel). 
 
 The following sequences comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.821–1.825 (“Requirements for Patent Applications Containing Nucleotide Sequences and/or Amino Acid Sequence Disclosures—the Sequence Rules”) and are consistent with World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Standard ST.25 (1998) and the sequence listing requirements of the European Patent Convention (EPC) and the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) Rules 5.2 and 49.5(a-bis), and Section 208 and Annex C of the Administrative Instructions. The symbols and format used for nucleotide and amino acid sequence data comply with the rules set forth in 37 C.F.R. §1.822. 
 A Sequence Listing is provided herewith on Compact Disk. The contents of the Compact Disk containing the Sequence Listing are hereby incorporated by reference in compliance with 37 CFR 1.52(e). The Compact Discs are submitted in duplicate and are identical to one another. The discs are labeled “Copy 1-Sequence Listing” and “ Copy  2 Sequence Listing” The discs contain the following file: CL2879USNA.ST25 having the following size: 31,000 bytes and which was created Jun. 12, 2006. 
 SEQ ID NO: 1 is the nucleic acid sequence of truncated hemoglobin gene thbN1. 
 SEQ ID NO: 2 is the deduced amino acid sequence encoded by truncated hemoglobin gene thbN1. 
 SEQ ID NO: 3 is the nucleic acid sequence of truncated hemoglobin gene thbN2. 
 SEQ ID NO: 4 is the deduced amino acid sequence encoded by truncated hemoglobin gene thbN2. 
 SEQ ID NO: 5 is the nucleic acid sequence of truncated hemoglobin gene thbO. 
 SEQ ID NO: 6 is the deduced amino acid sequence encoded by truncated hemoglobin gene thbO. 
 SEQ ID NO: 7 is the nucleic acid sequence of promoter Phps isolated from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (U.S. Ser. No. 10/689,200). 
 SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 9 are primers used to amplify the Phps1 promoter from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a genomic DNA. 
 SEQ ID NO: 10 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer gbn1-16a-F. 
 SEQ ID NO: 11 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer gbn1-16a-R. 
 SEQ ID NO: 12 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer gbn2-16a-F. 
 SEQ ID NO: 13 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer gbn2-16a-R. 
 SEQ ID NO: 14 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer gbo-16a-F. 
 SEQ ID NO: 15 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer gbo-16a-R. 
 SEQ ID NO: 16 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer HY-109. 
 SEQ ID NO: 17 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer HY-107. 
 SEQ ID NO: 18 is the nucleic acid sequence of plasmid pDCQ343. 
 SEQ ID NO: 19 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer HY-117. 
 SEQ ID NO: 20 is the nucleic acid sequence of primer HY-118. 
 SEQ ID NO: 21 is the nucleic acid sequence for the coding region of the crtW carotenoid ketolase gene isolated from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433). 
 SEQ ID NO: 22 is the nucleic acid sequence for the coding region of the crtZ carotenoid hydroxylase gene isolated from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  (U.S. Ser. No. 11/200,394). 
 SEQ ID NO: 23 is the nucleic acid sequence for the coding region of the crtZ carotenoid hydroxylase gene isolated from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/200,394). 
 SEQ ID NO: 24 is the 16s rRNA gene sequence from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof including, but not limited to  Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200 (ATCC PTA-6887),  Methylomonas  sp. orihps333 (ATCC PTA-7122), and  Methylomonas  strain AX1-8. 
 The following biological deposits were made under the terms of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 International 
   
 
 
 Depositor Identification 
 Depository 
 
 
 Reference 
 Designation 
 Date of Deposit 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   Methylomonas  16a 
 ATCC PTA-2402 
 Aug. 22, 2000 
 
 
   Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200 
 ATCC PTA-6887 
 Jul. 22, 2005 
 
 
   Methylomonas  sp. orihps333 
 ATCC PTA-7122 
 Sep. 29, 2005 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 As used herein, “ATCC” refers to the American Type Culture Collection International Depository Authority located at ATCC, 10801 University Blvd., Manassas, Va. 20110-2209, U.S.A. The “International Depository Designation” is the accession number to the culture on deposit with ATCC. The listed deposit will be maintained in the indicated international depository for at least thirty (30) years and will be made available to the public upon the grant of a patent disclosing it. The availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by government action. 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 The present invention provides a method to increase the carotenoid titer and/or production of oxygenated carotenoids in a carotenogenic host cell by expressing at least one of the present genes encoding an oxygen binding protein (bacterial hemoglobin), especially under microaerobic conditions. The present genes may be overexpressed chromosomally or extrachromosomally to increase carotenoid titer and/or oxygenated carotenoid (ketocarotenoids and/or hydroxylated carotenoids) production under microaerobic conditions. 
 In one aspect of the present invention, one or more of the present bacterial hemoglobin genes is overexpressed (chromosomally and/or extrachromosomally) to enhance the growth characteristics of recombinant host cells grown under microaerobic conditions. In another aspect, the present bacterial genes are overexpressed on a multicopy plasmid. 
 In another aspect, the present invention also provides isolated nucleic acid molecules encoding at least one bacterial hemoglobin from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a. In yet another aspect, chimeric gene comprising the present isolated nucleic acid molecules are provided. In a further aspect, host cells recombinantly expressing the present nucleic acid molecules are also provided. 
 In this disclosure, a number of terms and abbreviations are used. The following definitions are provided: 
 “Open reading frame” is abbreviated ORF. 
 “Polymerase chain reaction” is abbreviated PCR. 
 As used herein, “AST %” means the percentage of astaxanthin produced relative to the total carotenoid content. As shown in the present examples, increased expression of at least of the present bacterial hemoglobin genes in an astaxanthin producing host cell increased the production of astaxanthin. 
 As used herein, the term “comprising” means the presence of the stated features, integers, steps, or components as referred to in the claims, but that it does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof. 
 As used herein, the term “about” modifying the quantity of an ingredient or reactant of the invention employed refers to variation in the numerical quantity that can occur, for example, through typical measuring and liquid handling procedures used for making concentrates or use solutions in the real world; through inadvertent error in these procedures; through differences in the manufacture, source, or purity of the ingredients employed to make the compositions or carry out the methods; and the like. The term “about” also encompasses amounts that differ due to different equilibrium conditions for a composition resulting from a particular initial mixture. Whether or not modified by the term “about”, the claims include equivalents to the quantities. In one aspect, the term “about” means within 20% of the recited numerical value, preferably within 10%, and most preferably within 5%. 
 The term “invention” or “present invention” as used herein is not mane to be limiting to one aspect of an embodiment of the invention but rather incorporates all aspects and embodiments of the invention as described in the claims and specification. 
 As used herein, an “isolated nucleic acid molecule” and “isolated nucleic acid fragment” will be used interchangeably and refers to a polymer of RNA or DNA that is single- or double-stranded, optionally containing synthetic, non-natural or altered nucleotide bases. An isolated nucleic acid molecule in the form of a polymer of DNA may be comprised of one or more segments of cDNA, genomic DNA or synthetic DNA. 
 As used herein, the terms “bacterial hemoglobins”, “bacterial oxygen binding proteins”, and “oxygen binding proteins” are used interchangeably and refer to oxygen-binding proteins belonging to the large superfamily of hemoglobin-like proteins. Bacterial hemoglobins include at least 3 types of hemoglobin-like proteins based on their structure, namely “ Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin” (VHb), the “flavohemoglobins” (FHb), and the “truncated hemoglobins” (trHb) (Frey, A. D., and Kallio, P. T., supra; Bollinger et al., supra). The truncated bacterial hemoglobins are further divided into 3 groups, namely “Group I” (trHbN), “Group II” (trHbO), and “Group III” (trHbP). A search of the  Methylomonas  16a (ATCC PTA-2402) genome revealed the existence of 3 truncated bacterial hemoglobin genes, two from Group I (i.e., thbN1 and thbN2) and one from Group II (thbO). 
 As used herein, the terms “microaerobic” and “oxygen-limited” refer to dissolved oxygen concentrations in growth media and/or concentrations occurring within a host cell, which have a detrimental effect on carotenoid production and/or the growth characteristics of the host cell. “Microaerobic” may also refer to any condition where the oxygen concentration in solution is less than 100% oxygen-saturated solution, that is, growth media or intracellular fluid. The oxygen limited conditions may occur extracellularly and/or intracellularly. Moreover, the oxygen limited conditions may occur under conditions where the extracellular dissolved oxygen concentration in the growth medium is saturated while the intracellular oxygen concentration is limited due to quick consumption of large amount of oxygen intracellularly and/or the rate of dissolved oxygen transfer from the extracellular environment into the host cell. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ343” refers to a astaxanthin expression plasmid comprising the carotenoid gene cluster crtWZEYIB (U.S. Ser. No. 11/227,613; herein incorporated by reference). Briefly, the astaxanthin expression plasmid pDCQ343 (SEQ ID NO: 18) was prepared by cloning into pBHR1 (MoBiTec GmbH, Goettingen, Germany) the crtW ketolase from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433; hereby incorporated by reference; SEQ ID NO: 21) and the crtZ carotenoid hydroxylase (U.S. Ser. No. 11/200,394; SEQ ID NO: 23) from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 upstream of the crtEYIB gene cluster from  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/808,979; hereby incorporated by reference). The resulting gene cluster, crtWZEYIB was operably linked to the chloramphenicol resistance promoter (Pcat) found on pBHR1. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ363” refers to a plasmid comprising the Phps1 promoter (SEQ ID NO: 7) that results from cloning a nucleic acid fragment comprising the Phps1 promoter into pBHR1 (MoBiTec GmbH). 
 As used herein, the tern “pDCQ385” refers to a plasmid comprising the thbN1 coding sequence operably linked to the Phps1 promoter, disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 10/689,200 and incorporated herein by reference. The coding sequence of thbN1 was cloned into plasmid pDCQ363 to create pDCQ385. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ385TA” refers to a plasmid expressing the  Methylomonas  sp. 16a thbN1 bacterial hemoglobin gene. The thbN1 gene was cloned into the expression vector pTrcHis2-TOPO® (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) to create pDCQ385TA. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ386” refers to a plasmid comprising the thbN2 coding sequence operably linked to the Phps1 promoter. The coding sequence of thbN2 was cloned into plasmid pDCQ363 to create pDCQ386. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ386TA” refers to a plasmid expressing the  Methylomonas  sp. 16a thbN2 bacterial hemoglobin gene. The thbN2 gene was cloned into vector pTrcHis2-TOPO® (Invitrogen) to create pDCQ386TA. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ387” refers to a plasmid comprising the thbO coding sequence operably linked to the Phps1 promoter. The coding sequence of thbO was cloned into plasmid pDCQ363 to create pDCQ387. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ387TA” refers to a plasmid expressing the  Methylomonas  sp. 16a thbO bacterial hemoglobin gene. The thbO gene was cloned into vector pTrcHis2-TOPO® (Invitrogen) to create pDCQ387TA. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ365” refers to a plasmid comprising the crtW from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (SEQ ID NO: 21) and the crtZ from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  (SEQ ID NO: 22; U.S. Ser. No. 11/200,394) expressed under an endogenous  Methylomonas  promoter Phps1 in pDCQ363. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ391” refers to a plasmid comprising the thbO coding sequence operably linked to the Phps1 promoter upstream of the crtWZ genes in pDCQ365. The coding sequence of thbO was cloned into plasmid pDCQ365 to create pDCQ391. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ393” refers to a plasmid comprising the thbN1 coding sequence operably linked to the Phps1 promoter upstream of the crtWZ genes in pDCQ365. The coding sequence of thbN1 was cloned into plasmid pDCQ365 to create pDCQ393. 
 As used herein, the term “pDCQ394” refers to a plasmid comprising the thbN2 coding sequence operably linked to the Phps1 promoter upstream of the crtWZ genes in pDCQ365. The coding sequence of thbN2 was cloned into plasmid pDCQ365 to create pDCQ394. 
 As used herein, the term “isoprenoid” or “terpenoid” refers to the compounds derived from the isoprenoid pathway including 10 carbon terpenoids and their derivatives, such as carotenoids and xanthophylls. 
 As used herein, the term “carotenoid” refers to a compound comprising a polyene backbone which is condensed from a five-carbon isoprene unit. Carotenoids includes both carotenes and oxidation products of carotenes (e.g., xanthophylls). 
 Carotenoids may be acyclic or terminated with one (monocyclic) or two (bicyclic) cyclic end groups (ionone rings). Carotenoids that are particularly suitable in the present invention are monocyclic and bicyclic carotenoids. The term “carotenoid” may include both carotenes and xanthophylls. A “carotene” refers to a hydrocarbon carotenoid. 
 As used herein, carotene derivatives that contain one or more oxygen atoms, in the form of hydroxyl or keto groups will be referred to as “oxygenated carotenoids”, “oxidized carotenes”, or “xanthophylls”. These oxidized carotenes will include ketocarotenoids and hydroxylated carotenoids. Examples of these carotenoids include, but are not limited to canthaxanthin, astaxanthin, adonirubin, adonixanthin, echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3′-hydroxyechinenone, zeaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, and lutein. 
 As used herein, the term “carotenogenic host cell” is a microbial host cell capable of producing at least one carotenoid. The host cell may naturally produce or be genetically modified to produce the desired carotenoid(s). In one embodiment, the carotenogenic host cell is a host cell capable of producing ketocarotenoids and/or hydroxylated carotenoids. In a further preferred embodiment, the carotenogenic host cell produces canthaxanthin and/or astaxanthin. 
 As used herein, the term “carotenoid biosynthetic pathway” refers to those genes comprising members of the upper isoprenoid pathway and/or lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. 
 As used herein, The terms “upper isoprenoid pathway”, “isoprenoid pathway”, and “upper pathway” are used interchangeably and refer to enzymes involved in converting pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP). Genes encoding these enzymes include, but are not limited to: the “dxs” gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate synthase); the “dxr” gene (encoding 1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase); the “ispD” gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D-erythritol cytidyltransferase enzyme; also known as ygbP); the “ispE” gene (encoding 4-diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methylerythritol kinase; also known as ychB); the “ispF” gene (encoding a 2C-methyl-D- erythritol  2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase; also known as ygbB); the “pyrG” gene (encoding a CTP synthase); the “lytB” gene involved in the formation of dimethylallyl diphosphate; the “gcpE” gene involved in the synthesis of 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate; the “idi” gene (responsible for the intramolecular conversion of IPP to dimethylallyl pyrophosphate); and the “ispA” gene (encoding geranyltransferase or farnesyl diphosphate synthase) in the isoprenoid pathway. 
 As used herein, the terms “lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway” and “lower pathway” will be used interchangeably and refer to those enzymes which convert FPP to a suite of carotenoids. These pathways include those genes and gene products involved in the synthesis of diapophytoene, the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 30  carotenoids or of phytoene, which represents the first step unique to biosynthesis of C 40  carotenoids. All subsequent reactions leading to the production of various C 30 –C 40  carotenoids are included within the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. These genes and gene products comprise all of the “crt” genes including, but not limited to: crtM, crtN1, crtN2, crtE, crtX, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtW, crtO, crtA, crtC, crtD, crtF, and crtU. Finally, the term “lower carotenoid biosynthetic enzyme” is an inclusive term referring to any and all of the enzymes in the lower pathway including, but not limited to: CrtM, CrtN1, CrtN2, CrtE, CrtX, CrtY, CrtI, CrtB, CrtZ, CrtW, CrtO, CrtA, CrtC, CrtD, CrtF, and CrtU. 
 As used herein, “tetraterpenes” or “C 40  carotenoids” include eight isoprenoid units joined in such a manner that the arrangement of isoprenoid units is reversed at the center of the molecule so that the two central methyl groups are in a 1,6-positional relationship and the remaining nonterminal methyl groups are in a 1,5-positional relationship. All C 40  carotenoids may be formally derived from the acyclic C 40 H 56  structure. Non-limiting examples of C 40 -type carotenoids include: phytoene, lycopene, β-carotene, zeaxanthin, astaxanthin, and canthaxanthin. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtE” refers to a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme encoded by the crtE gene and which converts trans-trans-farnesyl diphosphate and isopentenyl diphosphate to pyrophosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate. 
 As used herein, the term “Idi” refers to an isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase enzyme (E.C. 5.3.3.2) encoded by the idi gene. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtY” refers to a lycopene cyclase enzyme encoded by the crtY gene, which converts lycopene to β-carotene. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtI” refers to a phytoene desaturase enzyme encoded by the crl gene. CrtI converts phytoene into lycopene via the intermediaries of phytofluene, ζ-carotene and neurosporene by the introduction of 4 double bonds. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtB” refers to a phytoene synthase enzyme encoded by the crtB gene which catalyzes the reaction from prephytoene diphosphate to phytoene. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtZ” refers to a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme, e.g. β-carotene hydroxylase, encoded by the crtZ gene which catalyzes a hydroxylation reaction. The reaction adds a hydroxyl group to cyclic carotenoids having a β-ionone type ring. This reaction converts cyclic carotenoids, such as β-carotene or canthaxanthin, into the hydroxylated carotenoids zeaxanthin or astaxanthin, respectively. Intermediates in the process typically include β-cryptoxanthin and adonirubin. It is known that CrtZ hydroxylases typically exhibit substrate flexibility, enabling production of a variety of hydroxylated carotenoids depending upon the available substrates ( FIG. 1 ). 
 As used herein, the term “hydroxyl group” refers to a univalent radical or group comprised of one oxygen and one hydrogen atom (“—OH”). 
 As used herein, the term “hydroxylated carotenoid” refers to carotenoids possessing at least one hydroxyl group on the ionone ring of a cyclic carotenoid. Examples of hydroxylated carotenoids include, but are not limited to zeaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtW” refers to a β-carotene ketolase enzyme encoded by the crtW gene, which catalyzes an oxidation reaction where a keto group is introduced on the β-ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids. The term “carotenoid ketolase” or “ketolase” refers to the group of enzymes that can add keto groups to the ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids. It is known that CrtW ketolases typically exhibit substrate flexibility, enabling production of a variety of -ketocarotenoids depending upon the available substrates ( FIG. 1 ). 
 As used herein, the term “keto group” or “ketone group” will be used interchangeably and refers to a group in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: R 2 C═O (neither R may be H). 
 As used herein, the term “ketocarotenoid” refers to carotenoids possessing at least one keto group on the ionone ring of a cyclic carotenoid. Examples of ketocarotenoids include, but are not limited to canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
 As used herein, the term “cyclic carotenoid” refers to a carotenoid having at least one β-ionone ring or β-ionone ring derivative capable of being functionalized by a carotenoid hydroxylase and/or a carotenoid ketolase. 
 As used herein, “substantially similar” refers to nucleic acid molecules wherein changes in one or more nucleotide bases results in substitution of one or more amino acids, but do not affect the functional properties of the protein encoded by the DNA sequence. “Substantially similar” also refers to nucleic acid molecules wherein changes in one or more nucleotide bases does not affect the ability of the nucleic acid molecule to mediate alteration of gene expression by antisense or co-suppression technology. “Substantially similar” also refers to modifications of the nucleic acid molecules of the instant invention such as deletion or insertion of one or more nucleotide bases that do not substantially affect the functional properties of the resulting transcript. It is therefore understood that the invention encompasses more than the specific exemplary sequences. 
 For example, it is well known in the art that alterations in a gene which result in the production of a chemically equivalent amino acid at a given site, but do not affect the functional properties of the encoded protein are common. For the purposes of the present invention substitutions are defined as exchanges within one of the following five groups:
         1. Small aliphatic, nonpolar or slightly polar residues: Ala, Ser, Thr (Pro, Gly);   2. Polar, negatively charged residues and their amides: Asp, Asn, Glu, Gln;   3. Polar, positively charged residues: His, Arg, Lys;   4. Large aliphatic, nonpolar residues: Met, Leu, Ile, Val (Cys); and   5. Large aromatic residues: Phe, Tyr, Trp.
 
Thus, a codon for the amino acid alanine, a hydrophobic amino acid, may be substituted by a codon encoding another less hydrophobic residue (such as glycine) or a more hydrophobic residue (such as valine, leucine, or isoleucine). Similarly, changes which result in substitution of one negatively charged residue for another (such as aspartic acid for glutamic acid) or one positively charged residue for another (such as lysine for arginine) can also be expected to produce a functionally equivalent product. In many cases, nucleotide changes which result in alteration of the N-terminal and C-terminal portions of the protein molecule would also not be expected to alter the activity of the protein.
       
 Each of the proposed modifications is well within the routine skill in the art, as is determination of retention of biological activity of the encoded products. Moreover, the skilled artisan recognizes that substantially similar sequences are encompassed by within the present invention. In one embodiment, substantially similar sequences are defined by their ability to hybridize, under stringent conditions (0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C.) with the sequences exemplified herein. In one embodiment, the present invention includes isolated nucleic acid molecules that hybridize under stringent conditions to nucleic acid molecules encoding 
 As used herein, a nucleic acid molecule is “hybridizable” to another nucleic acid molecule, such as a cDNA, genomic DNA, or RNA, when a single strand of the first molecule can anneal to the other molecule under appropriate conditions of temperature and solution ionic strength. Hybridization and washing conditions are well known and exemplified in Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T.  Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual , Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor (1989), particularly Chapter 11 and Table 11.1 therein (hereinafter “Maniatis”). The conditions of temperature and ionic strength determine the “stringency” of the hybridization. Stringency conditions can be adjusted to screen for moderately similar molecules, such as homologous sequences from distantly related organisms, to highly similar molecules, such as genes that duplicate functional enzymes from closely related organisms. Post-hybridization washes determine stringency conditions. One set of preferred conditions uses a series of washes starting with 6X SSC, 0.5% SDS at room temperature for 15 min then repeated with 2X SSC, 0.5% SDS at 45° C. for 30 min, and then repeated twice with 0.2X SSC, 0.5% SDS at 50° C. for 30 min. A more preferred set of conditions uses higher temperatures in which the washes are identical to those above except for the temperature of the final two 30 min washes in 0.2X SSC, 0.5% SDS was increased to 60° C. Another preferred set of stringent hybridization conditions is 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by a final wash of 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. with the sequences exemplified herein. 
 Hybridization requires that the two nucleic acids contain complementary sequences, although depending on the stringency of the hybridization, mismatches between bases are possible. The appropriate stringency for hybridizing nucleic acids depends on the length of the nucleic acids and the degree of complementation, variables well known in the art. The greater the degree of similarity or homology between two nucleotide sequences, the greater the value of Tm for hybrids of nucleic acids having those sequences. The relative stability (corresponding to higher Tm) of nucleic acid hybridizations decreases in the following order: RNA:RNA, DNA:RNA, DNA:DNA. For hybrids of greater than 100 nucleotides in length, equations for calculating Tm have been derived (see Maniatis, supra, 9.50–9.51). For hybridizations with shorter nucleic acids, i.e., oligonucleotides, the position of mismatches becomes more important, and the length of the oligonucleotide determines its specificity (see Maniatis, supra, 11.7–11.8). In one aspect, the length for a hybridizable nucleic acid is at least about 10 nucleotides. Preferably, a minimum length for a hybridizable nucleic acid is at least about 15 nucleotides; more preferably at least about 20 nucleotides; even more preferably the length is at least 30 nucleotides; and most preferably the length is at least 300 nucleotides in length. Furthermore, the skilled artisan will recognize that the temperature and wash solution salt concentration may be adjusted as necessary according to factors such as length of the probe. 
 As used herein, the term “complementary” is used to describe the relationship between nucleotide bases that are capable of hybridizing to one another. For example, with respect to DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine and cytosine is complementary to guanine. Accordingly, the instant invention also includes isolated nucleic acid molecules that are complementary to the complete sequences as reported in the accompanying Sequence Listing as well as those substantially similar nucleic acid sequences. 
 As used herein, the term “percent identity” is a relationship between two or more polypeptide sequences or two or more polynucleotide sequences, as determined by comparing the sequences. In the art, “identity” also means the degree of sequence relatedness between polypeptide or polynucleotide sequences, as the case may be, as determined by the match between strings of such sequences. “Identity” and “similarity” can be readily calculated by known methods, including but not limited to those described in:  Computational Molecular Biology  (Lesk, A. M., ed.) Oxford University Press, NY (1988);  Biocomputing: Informatics and Genome Projects  (Smith, D. W., ed.) Academic Press, NY (1993);  Computer Analysis of Sequence Data, Part I  (Griffin, A. M., and Griffin, H. G., eds.) Humana Press, NJ (1994);  Sequence Analysis in Molecular Biology  (von Heinje, G., ed.) Academic Press (1987); and  Sequence Analysis Primer  (Gribskov, M. and Devereux, J., eds.) Stockton Press, NY (1991). Methods to determine identity and similarity are codified in publicly available computer programs. Sequence alignments and percent identity calculations may be performed using the Megalign program of the LASERGENE bioinformatics computing suite (DNASTAR Inc., Madison, Wis.) or the AlignX program of Vector NTI v. 7.0 (Informax, Inc., Bethesda, Md.). Multiple alignment of the sequences can be performed using the Clustal method of alignment (Higgins and Sharp,  CABIOS,  5:151–153 (1989)) with the default parameters (GAP PENALTY=10, GAP LENGTH PENALTY=10). Default parameters for pairwise alignments using the Clustal method are typically KTUPLE 1, GAP PENALTY=3, WINDOW=5 and DIAGONALS SAVED=5. 
 In one aspect of the present invention, suitable isolated nucleic acid molecules (isolated polynucleotides of the present invention) encode a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence that is at least about 80% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In another aspect, suitable nucleic acid molecules encode amino acid sequences that are at least about 85% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In yet another aspect, suitable nucleic acid molecules encode amino acid sequences that are at least about 90% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In a further aspect, suitable nucleic acid molecules encode amino acid sequences that are at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In yet a further aspect, suitable isolated nucleic acid molecules encode amino acid sequences that are at least 99% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. Suitable nucleic acid molecules of the present invention not only have the above homologies, but also typically encode a polypeptide having about 115 to about 145 amino acids, preferably about 125 to about 138 amino acids. 
 As used herein, “codon degeneracy” refers to the nature in the genetic code permitting variation of the nucleotide sequence without affecting the amino acid sequence of an encoded polypeptide. Accordingly, the present invention relates to any nucleic acid molecule that encodes all or a substantial portion of the amino acid sequences encoding the present microbial polypeptides as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 2, 4, and 6. The skilled artisan is well aware of the “codon-bias” exhibited by a specific host cell in usage of nucleotide codons to specify a given amino acid. Therefore, when synthesizing a gene for improved expression in a host cell, it is desirable to design the gene such that its frequency of codon usage approaches the frequency of preferred codon usage of the host cell. 
 As used herein, “synthetic genes” can be assembled from oligonucleotide building blocks that are chemically synthesized using procedures known to those skilled in the art. These building blocks are ligated and annealed to form gene segments which are then enzymatically assembled to construct the entire gene. “Chemically synthesized”, as pertaining to a DNA sequence, means that the component nucleotides were assembled in vitro. Manual chemical synthesis of DNA may be accomplished using well-established procedures, or automated chemical synthesis can be performed using one of a number of commercially available machines. Accordingly, the genes can be tailored for optimal gene expression based on optimization of nucleotide sequences to reflect the codon bias of the host cell. The skilled artisan appreciates the likelihood of successful gene expression if codon usage is biased towards those codons favored by the host. Determination of preferred codons can be based on a survey of genes derived from the host cell where sequence information is available. 
 As used herein, “gene” refers to a nucleic acid molecule that expresses a specific protein, including regulatory sequences preceding (5′ non-coding sequences) and following (3′ non-coding sequences) the coding sequence. “Native gene” refers to a gene as found in nature with its own regulatory sequences. “Chimeric gene” refers to any gene that is not a native gene, comprising regulatory and coding sequences that are not found together in nature. Accordingly, a chimeric gene may comprise regulatory sequences and coding sequences that are derived from different sources, or regulatory sequences and coding sequences derived from the same source, but arranged in a manner different from that found in nature. “Endogenous gene” refers to a native gene in its natural location in the genome of an organism. A “foreign” gene refers to a gene not normally found in the host organism, but that is introduced into the host organism by gene transfer. Foreign genes can comprise native genes inserted into a non-native organism, or chimeric genes. A “transgene” is a gene that has been introduced into the genome by a transformation procedure. 
 As used herein, “coding sequence” refers to a DNA sequence that codes for a specific amino acid sequence. “Suitable regulatory sequences” refer to nucleotide sequences located upstream (5′ non-coding sequences), within, or downstream (3′ non-coding sequences) of a coding sequence, and which influence the transcription, RNA processing or stability, or translation of the associated coding sequence. Regulatory sequences may include promoters, translation leader sequences, RNA processing site, effector binding site and stem-loop structure. 
 As used herein, “promoter” refers to a DNA sequence capable of controlling the expression of a coding sequence or functional RNA. In general, a coding sequence is located 3′ to a promoter sequence. Promoters may be derived in their entirety from a native gene, or be composed of different elements derived from different promoters found in nature, or even comprise synthetic DNA segments. It is understood by those skilled in the art that different promoters may direct the expression of a gene at different stages of development, or in response to different environmental or physiological conditions. Promoters which cause a gene to be expressed at most times are commonly referred to as “constitutive promoters”. It is further recognized that since in most cases the exact boundaries of regulatory sequences have not been completely defined, DNA fragments of different lengths may have identical promoter activity. 
 As used herein, the “3′ non-coding sequences” refer to DNA sequences located downstream of a coding sequence and include polyadenylation recognition sequences (normally limited to eukaryotes) and other sequences encoding regulatory signals capable of affecting mRNA processing or gene expression. The polyadenylation signal is usually characterized by affecting the addition of polyadenylic acid tracts (normally limited to eukaryotes) to the 3′ end of the mRNA precursor. 
 As used herein, the term “operably linked” refers to the association of nucleic acid sequences on a single nucleic acid molecule so that the function of one is affected by the other. For example, a promoter is operably linked with a coding sequence when it is capable of affecting the expression of that coding sequence, i.e., that the coding sequence is under the transcriptional control of the promoter. Coding sequences can be operably linked to regulatory sequences in sense or antisense orientation. 
 As used herein, the term “expression” refers to the transcription and stable accumulation of sense (mRNA) or antisense RNA derived from the nucleic acid molecule of the invention. Expression may also refer to translation of mRNA into a polypeptide. 
 As used herein, “transformation” refers to the transfer of a nucleic acid molecule into the genome of a host organism, resulting in genetically stable inheritance. In the present invention, the host cell's genome includes chromosomal and extrachromosomal (e.g. plasmid) genes. Host organisms containing the transformed nucleic acid molecules are referred to as “transgenic” or “recombinant” or “transformed” organisms. 
 As used herein, “conjugation” refers to a particular type of transformation in which a unidirectional transfer of DNA (e.g., from a bacterial plasmid) occurs from one bacterium cell, the “donor”, to another, the “recipient”. The process involves direct cell-to-cell contact. 
 As used herein, the term “carbon substrate” refers to a carbon source capable of being metabolized by host organisms of the present invention and particularly carbon sources selected from the group consisting of monosaccharides, disaccharides, polysaccharides, and one-carbon substrates or mixtures thereof. The term “C 1  carbon substrate” refers to any carbon-containing molecule that lacks a carbon-carbon bond. Non-limiting examples are methane, methanol, formaldehyde, formic acid, formate, methylated amines (e.g., mono-, di-, and tri-methyl amine), methylated thiols, and carbon dioxide. In one embodiment, suitable C 1  carbon substrates include methane and/or methanol. 
 As used herein, the term “C 1  metabolizer” refers to a microorganism that has the ability to use a single carbon substrate as its sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizers will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs. The term “C 1  metabolizing bacteria” refers to bacteria that have the ability to use a single carbon substrate as their sole source of energy and biomass. C 1  metabolizing bacteria, a subset of C 1  metabolizers, will typically be methylotrophs and/or methanotrophs. Particularly preferred are those organisms capable of metabolizing methane and/or methanol. 
 As used herein, the term “methylotroph” means an organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. Where the methylotroph is able to oxidize CH 4 , the methylotroph is also a methanotroph. In one embodiment, the bacterial methylotroph is capable of growing on methane and/or methanol (U.S. Pat. No. 6,969,595; herein incorporated by reference). 
 As used herein, the term “methanotroph” or “methanotrophic bacteria” means a prokaryote capable of utilizing methane as its primary source of carbon and energy. Complete oxidation of methane to carbon dioxide occurs by aerobic degradation pathways. Typical examples of methanotrophs useful in the present invention include (but are not limited to) the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus , and  Methylosinus . In one embodiment, the methanotroph is capable of growing on methane and/or methanol. 
 As used herein, the term “high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain” refers to a bacterium capable of growth with methane or methanol as the sole carbon and energy source and which possesses a functional Embden-Meyerhof carbon flux pathway, resulting in a high rate of growth and yield of cell mass per gram of C 1  substrate metabolized (U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601; herein incorporated by reference). In another embodiment, the high growth methanotrophic bacterium is  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof. In one aspect, the terms “mutant derivatives”, “derivatives of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a”, and “derivatives thereof” will be used to refer to  Methylomonas  strains developed from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402). In a further aspect, the derivatives of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a are comprised of the 16s rRNA gene sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 24 (U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601). In yet another embodiment, the high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain utilizes methanol and/or methane as a primary carbon source. 
 As used herein, the term “MWM1200 (Δcrt cluster promoter+ΔcrtN3)” refers to a mutant of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a in which the crt cluster promoter and the crtN3 gene have been disrupted. Disruption of the native C 30  carotenoid-biosynthetic pathway results in suitable background for engineering C 40  carotenoid production. The  Methylomonas  MWM1200 strain was previously created and is a suitable carotenoid production host (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844, incorporated herein by reference; ATCC PTA-6887). The term “pigmentless” or “white mutant” refers to a  Methylomonas  sp. 16a bacterium wherein the native pink pigment, e.g., a C 30  carotenoid, is not produced. Thus, the bacterial cells appear white in color, as opposed to pink. 
 As used herein, the term “astaxanthin-producing  Methylomonas  strain” refers to an astaxanthin-producing derivative strain of  Methylomonas  MWM1200 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844). Astaxanthin-producing  Methylomonas  strains can be prepared by chromosomally-integrating astaxanthin biosynthesis genes, at least one copy of each of the following carotenoid biosynthesis crtE, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtW, and crtZ, in a pigmentless  Methylomonas  sp. 16a background. 
 As used herein, the term “ Methylomonas  sp. orihps333” refers to a canthaxanthin producing derivative of  Methylomonas  MWM1200 ATCC PTA-6887 created by integrating a canthaxanthin gene cluster, operably linked to the hps promoter isolated from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (U.S. Ser. No. 10/689,200), into the ori region of the  Methylomonas  chromosome (See pending U.S. provisional application entitled “ANIMAL FEED PIGMENTS FROM METHANOTROPHIC MICROBIAL BIOMASS” filed Mar. 9, 2006; herein incorporated by reference).  Methylomonas  sp. orihps333 was deposited to the American Type Culture Collection under accession number PTA-7122. 
 As used herein, the term  Methylomonas  strain AX1-8 refers to an astaxanthin-producing strain derived from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a comprising 1) a chromosomally integrated crtWZ gene cluster (crtW from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (SEQ ID: 21) and crtZ from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (SEQ ID NO: 23), operably linked to the hps promoter (SEQ ID NO: 7), into the aid region (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844 herein incorporated by reference) of  Methylomonas  sp. orihps333 (ATCC PTA-7122), and 2) an additional crtZ gene (crtZ from  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263) (operably linked to an hps promoter) chromosomally integrated in the tig region (U.S. Ser. No. 11/070,080; herein incorporated by reference) of the  Methylomonas  chromosome. 
 As used herein, the terms “plasmid”, “vector” and “cassette” refer to an extrachromosomal element often carrying genes which are not part of the central metabolism of the cell, and usually in the form of circular double-stranded DNA molecules. Such elements may be autonomously replicating sequences, genome integrating sequences, phage or nucleotide sequences, linear or circular, of a single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA, derived from any source, in which a number of nucleotide sequences have been joined or recombined into a unique construction which is capable of introducing a promoter fragment and DNA sequence for a selected gene product along with appropriate 3′ untranslated sequence into a cell. “Transformation cassette” refers to a specific vector containing a foreign gene and having elements in addition to the foreign gene that facilitate transformation of a particular host cell. “Expression cassette” refers to a specific vector containing a foreign gene and having elements in addition to the foreign gene that allow for enhanced expression of that gene in a foreign host. 
 As used herein, the term “sequence analysis software” refers to any computer algorithm or software program that is useful for the analysis of nucleotide or amino acid sequences. “Sequence analysis software” may be commercially available or independently developed. Typical sequence analysis software will include, but is not limited to, the GCG suite of programs (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, Wis.), BLASTP, BLASTN, BLASTX (Altschul et al.,  J. Mol. Biol.  215:403–410 (1990), and DNASTAR (DNASTAR, Inc. 1228 S. Park St. Madison, Wis. 53715 USA), and the FASTA program incorporating the Smith-Waterman algorithm (W. R. Pearson,  Comput. Methods Genome Res. , [Proc. Int. Symp.] (1994), Meeting Date 1992, 111–20. Editor(s): Suhai, Sandor. Publisher: Plenum, New York, N.Y.), Vector NTI (Informax, Bethesda, Md.) and Sequencher v. 4.05. Within the context of this application it will be understood that where sequence analysis software is used for analysis, that the results of the analysis will be based on the “default values” of the program referenced, unless otherwise specified. As used herein “default values” will mean any set of values or parameters set by the software manufacturer that originally load with the software when first initialized. 
 Discovery of Genes Coding for Bacterial Oxygen Binding Proteins 
 The present invention provides bacterial oxygen binding proteins (truncated-type bacterial hemoglobins) and isolated from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402). Recombinant and/or increased expression of the three truncated hemoglobin genes have been shown to increase the overall growth characteristics of a host cell grown under-microaerobic conditions. It has also been shown that increased expression of the present bacterial hemoglobin genes increases the production of oxygenated carotenoids when expressed with a crtWZ gene cluster under microaerobic conditions. The present sequence may be used in vitro and in vivo in recombinant hosts for the production of oxygenated compounds, i.e., xanthophylls, from cyclic carotenoid compounds. 
 Comparison of the  Methylomonas  sp. 16a thbN1 nucleotide base and deduced amino acid sequence (SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2) to public databases reveals that the most similar, known sequence has about 81% identity to the amino acid sequence reported herein using the BLASTXnr search (Table 4). 
 Comparison of the  Methylomonas  sp. 16a thbN2 nucleotide base and deduced amino acid sequence (SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4) to public databases reveals that the most similar known sequence has about 64% identity to the amino acid sequence reported herein using the BLASTXnr search (Table 4). 
 Comparison of the  Methylomonas  sp. 16a thbO nucleotide base and deduced amino acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6) to public databases reveals that the most similar known sequence has about 62% identity to the amino acid sequence reported herein using the BLASTXnr search (Table 4). 
 Accordingly, preferred amino acid fragments are at least about 85% identical to the amino acid sequences herein, more preferred amino acid sequences are at least about 90% identical to the amino acid fragments reported herein, even more preferred amino acid sequences are at least about 95% identical to the amino acid fragments reported herein, and most preferred are nucleic acid molecules that are at least 99% identical to the amino acid molecules reported herein. 
 Isolation of Homologs 
 The nucleic acid molecules of the instant invention may be used to isolate genes encoding homologous proteins from the same or other microbial species. Isolation of homologous genes using sequence-dependent protocols is well known in the art. Examples of sequence-dependent protocols include, but are not limited to, methods of nucleic acid hybridization, and methods of DNA and RNA amplification as exemplified by various uses of nucleic acid amplification technologies (e.g. polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Mullis et al., U.S. Pat. No. 4,683,202), ligase chain reaction (LCR), Tabor, S. et al.,  Proc. Acad. Sci . USA 82:1074 (1985)) or strand displacement amplification (SDA, Walker, et al.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci . U.S.A., 89:392 (1992)). 
 For example, genes encoding proteins or polypeptides similar to those of the instant invention may be isolated directly by using all or a portion of the instant nucleic acid molecules as DNA hybridization probes to screen libraries from any desired bacteria using methodology well known to those skilled in the art. Specific oligonucleotide probes based upon the instant nucleic acid sequences can be designed and synthesized by methods known in the art (Maniatis, supra). Moreover, the entire sequences may be used directly to synthesize DNA probes by methods known to the skilled artisan such as random primers DNA labeling, nick translation, end-labeling techniques, or RNA probes using available in vitro transcription systems. In addition, specific primers can be designed and used to amplify a part of or the full-length of the instant sequences. The resulting amplification products can be labeled directly during or after amplification reactions, and used as probes to isolate full length DNA fragments under conditions of appropriate stringency. 
 Typically, in PCR-type amplification techniques, the primers have different sequences and are not complementary to each other. Depending on the desired test conditions, the sequences of the primers should be designed to provide for both efficient and faithful replication of the target nucleic acid. Methods of PCR primer design are common and well known in the art. See Thein and Wallace, “The use of oligonucleotides as specific hybridization probes in the Diagnosis of Genetic Disorders”, in  Human Genetic Diseases: A Practical Approach , K. E. Davis Ed., (1986) pp. 33–50 IRL Press, Herndon, Va.; Rychlik, W. (1993) In White, B. A. (ed.),  Methods in Molecular Biology , Vol.15, pages 31–39, “PCR Protocols: Current Methods and Applications”, Humania Press, Inc., Totowa, N.J. 
 Generally two short segments of the instant sequences may be used as primers in a polymerase chain reaction to amplify longer nucleic acid molecules encoding homologous genes from DNA or RNA. The polymerase chain reaction may also be performed on a library of cloned nucleic acid molecules wherein the sequence of one primer is derived from the instant nucleic acid molecules, and the sequence of the other primer takes advantage of the presence of the polyadenylic acid tracts to the 3′ end of the mRNA precursor of a eukaryotic gene. In the case of microbial genes which lack polyadenylated mRNA, random primers may be used. Random primers may also be useful for amplification from DNA. 
 Alternatively, the second primer sequence may be based upon sequences derived from the cloning vector. For example, the skilled artisan can follow the RACE protocol (Frohman et al.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci . U.S.A, 85:8998 (1988)) to generate cDNAs by using PCR to amplify copies of the region between a single point in the transcript and the 3′ or 5′ end. Primers oriented in the 3′ and 5′ directions can be designed from the instant sequences. Using commercially available 3′ RACE or 5′ RACE systems (BRL), specific 3′ or 5′ cDNA fragments can be isolated (Ohara et al.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci . U.S.A, 86:5673 (1989); Loh et al.,  Science  243:217 (1989)). 
 The present sequences may be employed as hybridization reagents for the identification of homologs. The basic components of a nucleic acid hybridization test include a probe, a sample suspected of containing the gene or gene fragment of interest, and a specific hybridization method. Probes of the present invention are typically single stranded nucleic acid sequences which are complementary to the nucleic acid sequences to be detected. Probes are “hybridizable” to the nucleic acid sequence to be detected. The probe length can vary from 5 bases to tens of thousands of bases, and will depend upon the specific test to be done. Typically a probe length of about 15 bases to about 30 bases is suitable. Only part of the probe molecule need be complementary to the nucleic acid sequence to be detected. In addition, the complementarity between the probe and the target sequence need not be exact. Hybridization with mismatches does occur between not exactly complementary molecules, which results in a fraction of the bases in the hybridized region being paired with a non-complementary base. 
 Hybridization methods are well defined. Typically the probe and sample must be mixed under conditions which will permit nucleic acid hybridization. This involves contacting the probe and sample in the presence of an inorganic or organic salt under the proper concentration and temperature conditions. The probe and sample nucleic acids must be in contact for a long enough time that any possible hybridization between the probe and sample nucleic acid may occur. The concentration of probe or target in the mixture will determine the time necessary for hybridization to occur. The higher the probe or target concentration the shorter the hybridization incubation time. Optionally a chaotropic agent may be added. The chaotropic agent stabilizes nucleic acids by inhibiting nuclease activity. Furthermore, the chaotropic agent allows sensitive and stringent hybridization of short oligonucleotide probes at room temperature (Van Ness and Chen,  Nucl. Acids Res.  19:5143–5151 (1991)). Suitable chaotropic agents include guanidinium chloride, guanidinium thiocyanate, sodium thiocyanate, lithium tetrachloroacetate, sodium perchlorate, rubidium tetrachloroacetate, potassium iodide, and cesium trifluoroacetate, among others. Typically, the chaotropic agent will be present at a final concentration of about 3M. If desired, one can add formamide to the hybridization mixture, typically 30–50% (v/v). 
 Various hybridization solutions can be employed. Typically, these comprise from about 20 to 60% volume, preferably 30%, of a polar organic solvent. A common hybridization solution employs about 30–50% v/v formamide, about 0.15 to 1M sodium chloride, about 0.05 to 0.1M buffers, such as sodium citrate, Tris-HCl, PIPES or HEPES (pH range about 6–9), about 0.05 to 0.2% detergent, such as sodium dodecylsulfate, or between 0.5–20 mM EDTA, FICOLL (Pharmacia Inc.) (about 300–500 kilodaltons), polyvinylpyrrolidone (about 250–500 kdal), and serum albumin. Also included in the typical hybridization solution will be unlabeled carrier nucleic acids from about 0.1 to 5 mg/mL, fragmented nucleic DNA, e.g., calf thymus or salmon sperm DNA, or yeast RNA, and optionally from about 0.5 to 2% wt./vol. glycine. Other additives may also be included, such as volume exclusion agents which include a variety of polar water-soluble or swellable agents, such as polyethylene glycol, anionic polymers such as polyacrylate or polymethylacrylate, and anionic saccharidic polymers, such as dextran sulfate. 
 Nucleic acid hybridization is adaptable to a variety of assay formats. One of the most suitable is the sandwich assay format. The sandwich assay is particularly adaptable to hybridization under non-denaturing conditions. A primary component of a sandwich-type assay is a solid support. The solid support has adsorbed to it or covalently coupled to it immobilized nucleic acid probe that is unlabeled and complementary to one portion of the sequence. 
 Availability of the instant nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences facilitates immunological screening DNA expression libraries. Synthetic peptides representing portions of the instant amino acid sequences may be synthesized. These peptides can be used to immunize animals to produce polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies with specificity for peptides or proteins comprising the amino acid sequences. These antibodies can be then be used to screen DNA expression libraries to isolate full-length DNA clones of interest (Lerner, R. A.,  Adv. Immunol,.  36:1 (1984); Maniatis, supra). 
 Bacterial Hemoglobins 
 Bacterial hemoglobins are a subset of the larger hemoglobin-like superfamily. They have been reported to be involved in intracellular storage and delivery of oxygen (Frey, A. D., and Kallio, P. T., supra). The genes encoding bacterial hemoglobins are typically expressed in response to oxygen limitation or oxidative and nitrosative stress. 
 Three different types of bacterial hemoglobins have been reported: the  Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin (VHb), flavohemoglobins (FHb), and truncated hemoglobins (trHb) ( FIG. 2 ). All three types of bacterial hemoglobins have a high affinity for molecular oxygen and are capable of reversibly binding O 2 . The bacterial hemoglobins act as sequesters for O 2 , thereby increasing intracellular O 2  tension. 
 The  Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin and flavohemoglobins share sequence homology and structural similarity in their globin domain. The  Vitreoscilla  Hb is encoded by the vhb gene, encoding a protein of about 15.7 kDa. VHb is a homodimeric hemoglobin. The role of VHb is generally believed to be associated with oxygen binding and transport. The  Vitreoscilla  Hb is the most well-studied bacterial hemoglobin. When expressed in recombinant host cells grown under oxygen-limited conditions, it has been reported to increase overall cell growth and improve productivity (Frey, A. D. and Kallio, P. T., supra) 
 Flavohemoglobins share sequence homology and structural similarity to the globin domain of the  Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin. FHbs are typically have a molecular mass of about 44 kDA and comprise an additional reductase domain. Flavohemoglobins are believed to be also involved in the detoxification of nitric oxide, that is in aerobic detoxification. 
 The truncated bacterial hemoglobins (“trHb”) are a family of small-oxygen binding heme proteins that are found in eubacteria, protozoa, cyanobacteria, and plants and are divided into 3 groups (Group I, “trHbN”; Group II, “trHbO”; and Group III, “trHbP”). The truncated hemoglobins are significantly shorted and share very little sequence homology with  Vitreoscilla -like hemoglobins and flavohemoglobins. As such, they comprise a distinct family of hemoglobins within the hemoglobin superfamily (Wittenberg et al.,  J. Biol. Chem.,  277(2):871–874 (2002)). 
 All truncated hemoglobins have a unique 2-on-2 version of the globin fold when compared to the classical 3-on-3 α-helix sandwich found in non-truncated hemoglobins (Wittenberg et al., supra). The exact role of truncated hemoglobins is not conclusively known. However they may be involved in oxygen transport and storage. However, a structural and biochemical comparison of the HbO and HbN truncated bacterial hemoglobins from  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  suggests different functions for these hemoglobins (Pathania et al., supra). Recombinant expression of a bacterial hemoglobin to increase carotenoid production in host cell under oxygen-limited conditions has not been reported. 
 A search of the  Methylomonas  16a (ATCC PTA-2402) genome identified 3 truncated bacterial hemoglobin genes, 2 from Group I (thbN1 and thbN2) and one from Group II (thbO) ( FIG. 2 ; Table 4). The amino acid sequence of THbN1 shares 69% identity with the amino acid sequence of THbN2. ThbO shares only 17–20% amino acid identity with THbN1 and THbN2. 
 Recombinant Expression—Microbial 
 The genes and gene products of the instant sequences may be produced in heterologous host cells, particularly in the cells of microbial hosts. Expression in recombinant microbial cells under oxygen-limited conditions may be useful for: the expression of various pathway intermediates; the modulation of pathways already existing in the host, or the synthesis of new products heretofore not possible using the host. In one aspect, recombinant expression of a bacterial hemoglobin gene is useful to increase carotenoid production, especially oxygenated carotenoid production, in a host cell under oxygen-limited conditions. 
 Preferred heterologous host cells for expression of the instant genes and nucleic acid molecules are microbial hosts that can be found within the fungal or bacterial families and which grow over a wide range of temperature, pH values, and solvent tolerances. For example, it is contemplated that any of bacteria, yeast, and filamentous fungi may suitably host the expression of the present nucleic acid molecules. Transcription, translation and the protein biosynthetic apparatus remain invariant relative to the cellular feedstock used to generate cellular biomass; functional genes will be expressed regardless. Examples of host strains include, but are not limited to bacterial, fungal or yeast species such as  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Phaffia, Candida, Hansenula, Yarrowia, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter, Chlorobium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella , and  Myxococcus . In one embodiment, bacterial host strains include  Escherichia, Bacillus , and  Methylomonas . In a further embodiment, the bacterial host strain is a methylotrophic bacteria. In yet a further embodiment, the bacterial host strain is a high-growth methanotrophic bacteria. In still yet a further embodiment, the high-growth methanotrophic bacteria is  Methylomonas  sp. 16a and derivatives thereof. 
 Large-scale microbial growth and functional gene expression may use a wide range of simple or complex carbohydrates, organic acids and alcohols or saturated hydrocarbons, such as methane or carbon dioxide in the case of photosynthetic or chemoautotrophic hosts, the form and amount of nitrogen, phosphorous, sulfur, oxygen, carbon or any trace micronutrient including small inorganic ions. Preferably, the present genes are expressed under oxygen-limited (microaerobic) conditions. In addition, the regulation of growth rate may be affected by the addition, or not, of specific regulatory molecules to the culture and which are not typically considered nutrient or energy sources. 
 In a different aspect, it the introduction of a chimeric gene under the control of an appropriate promoter and encoding a bacterial oxygen binding protein will increase carotenoid production and/or the growth characteristic of the microbial host cell when grown under the microaerobic growth conditions specified herein. In another aspect, the expressed bacterial oxygen binding proteins are those classified as a a truncated bacterial hemoglobin (trHb). In yet another aspect, the oxygen binding protein is classified as a Group I (HbN-type) or Group II (HbO-type) truncated hemoglobin. It is contemplated that it will be useful to express this gene both in natural host cells as well as heterologous hosts. Increased expression of the gene encoding the bacterial oxygen binding protein represented by SEQ ID NOs: 2, 4, and 6 into native host will result in altered carotenoid production under microaerobic growth conditions. As used herein, altered carotenoid production means a change in overall carotenoid titer and/or production of oxygenated carotenoids. In a further aspect, expression of a truncated bacterial hemoglobin gene encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 2, 4 and 6 increase oxygenated carotenoid production in a host cell under oxygen-limited conditions. In another aspect, the increase in oxygenated carotenoid production is measured by the relative increase in conversion of one or more of the various intermediates shown in  FIG. 1  to the desired product (e.g. canthaxanthin and/or astaxanthin) under microaerobic conditions. In still a further aspect, the increase in carotenoid production occurs in a transformed carotenogenic host cell grown under microaerobic conditions, wherein said cell comprises more than two copies of a crtW carotenoid ketolase and/or crtZ hydroxylase gene. In a further aspect, the percent increase in carotenoid production/conversion and/or growth rate is at least 5%, preferably at least 10%, more preferably at least 25% relative to an unmodified host cell grown under similar microaerobic conditions. 
 Specific carotenoids that will be produced by the present invention include, but are not limited to, zeaxanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, echinenone, β-cryptoxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3′-hydroxyechinenone, adonirubin, adonixanthin, tetrahydroxy-β,β′-caroten-4,4′-dione, tetrahydroxy-β,β′-caroten-4-one, caloxanthin, erythroxanthin, nostoxanthin, flexixanthin, 3-hydroxy-γ-carotene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-γ-carotene, bacteriorubixanthin, bacteriorubixanthinal, lutein, and other xanthophylls. Of particular interest is the production of astaxanthin and canthaxanthin, the synthesis of which is shown in  FIG. 1 . 
 Vectors or cassettes useful for the transformation of suitable host cells are well known in the art. Typically the vector or cassette contains sequences directing transcription and translation of the relevant gene, a selectable marker, and sequences allowing autonomous replication or chromosomal integration. Suitable vectors comprise a  region  5′ of the gene which harbors transcriptional initiation controls and a  region  3′ of the DNA fragment which controls transcriptional termination. It is most preferred when both control regions are derived from-genes homologous to the transformed host cell and/or native to the production host, although such control regions need not be so derived. 
 Initiation control regions or promoters, which are useful to drive expression of the instant ORF's in the desired host cell are numerous and familiar to those skilled in the art. Virtually any promoter capable of driving these genes is suitable for the present invention including but not limited to CYC1, HIS3, GAL1, GAL10, ADH1, PGK, PHO5, GAPDH, ADC1, TRP1, URA3, LEU2, ENO, TPI (useful for expression in  Saccharomyces ); AOX1 (useful for expression in  Pichia ); and lac, ara, tet, trp, IP L , IP R , T7, tac, and trc (useful for expression in  Escherichia coli ) as well as the amy, apr, npr promoters and various phage promoters useful for expression in  Bacillus , and promoters isolated from the nrtA, glnB, moxF, glyoxlI, htpG, and hps genes useful for expression in  Methylomonas  (U.S. Ser. No. 10/689,200, incorporated herein by reference). Additionally, promoters such as the chloramphenicol resistance gene promoter may also be useful for expression in  Methylomonas.    
 Termination control regions may also be derived from various genes native to the preferred hosts. A termination site may be unnecessary, but is most preferred. 
 Knowledge of the sequence of the present gene will be useful in manipulating the overall growth characteristics and/or carotenoid production in any microorganism organism having such a pathway when grown under microaerobic conditions. Methods of manipulating genetic pathways are common and well known in the art. Selected genes in a particular pathway may be upregulated or down-regulated by a variety of methods. Additionally, competing pathways may be eliminated or sublimated by gene disruption and similar techniques. 
 Once a key genetic pathway has been identified and sequenced, specific genes may be upregulated to increase the output of the pathway. For example, additional copies of the targeted genes may be introduced into the host cell on multicopy plasmids such as pBR322. Optionally, multiple genes encoding bacterial oxygen binding proteins may be chromosomally expressed to increase the transformed host cell's growth characteristics and/or carotenoid production. However, stable chromosomal expression of multiple genes generally requires that the coding sequences of the genes used comprise nucleotide sequences having low to moderate sequence identity to one another. The present genes encoding bacterial oxygen binding proteins exhibit relative low to moderate nucleotide sequence identity to all previously reported bacterial hemoglobin genes, especially the structurally-unrelated  Vitreoscilla  hemoglobin. 
 When it is desired to regulate expression of the target gene, say when a pathway operates at a particular point in a cell cycle or during a fermentation run, regulated or inducible promoters may used to replace the native promoter of the target gene. Or in some cases the native or endogenous promoter may be modified to increase gene expression. For example, endogenous promoters can be altered in vivo by mutation, deletion, and/or substitution (see U.S. Pat. No. 5,565,350 to Kmiec; Zarling et al., PCT/US93/03868). 
 Methylotrophs and  Methylomonas  sp. 16a as Microbial Hosts 
 There are a number of microorganisms that utilize single carbon substrates as their sole energy source. Such microorganisms are referred to herein as “C 1  metabolizers”. These organisms are characterized by the ability to use carbon substrates lacking carbon to carbon bonds as a sole source of energy and biomass. These carbon substrates include, but are not limited to, methane, methanol, formate, formaldehyde, formic acid, methylated amines (e.g., mono-, di- and tri-methyl amine), methylated thiols, carbon dioxide, and other reduced carbon compounds lacking any carbon-carbon bonds. Preferred substrates include methane and/or methanol (U.S. Pat. No. 6,969,595). 
 All C 1  metabolizing microorganisms are generally classified as methylotrophs. Methylotrophs may be defined as any organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds. Three kinds of methyltrophs are:
         Facultative methylotrophs, which have the ability to oxidize organic compounds which do not contain carbon-carbon bonds, but may also use other carbon substrates such as sugars and complex carbohydrates for energy and biomass. Facultative methylotrophic bacteria are found in many environments, but are isolated most commonly from soil, landfill and waste treatment sites. Many facultative methylotrophs are members of the β and γ subgroups of the Proteobacteria (Hanson et al.,  Microb. Growth C 1  Compounds , [Int. Symp.], 7 th  (1993), pp 285–302. Murrell, J. Collin and Don P. Kelly, Eds. Intercept: Andover, UK; Madigan et al.,  Brock Biology of Microorganisms,  8 th  ed., Prentice Hall: UpperSaddle River, N.J. (1997)).   Obligate methylotrophs, which can use only organic compounds that do not contain carbon-carbon bonds for the generation of energy.   Obligate methanotrophs, which are those obligate methylotrophs that have the distinct ability to oxidize methane.       
 Additionally, the ability to use single carbon substrates is not limited to bacteria but extends also to yeasts and fungi. A number of yeast genera are able to use single carbon substrates as energy sources in addition to more complex materials, i.e., the methylotrophic yeasts. 
 Although a large number of these methylotrophic organisms are known, few of these microbes have been successfully harnessed in industrial processes for the synthesis of materials. And, although single carbon substrates are cost-effective energy sources, difficulty in genetic manipulation of these microorganisms as well as a dearth of information about their genetic machinery has limited their use primarily to the synthesis of native products. 
 Despite these difficulties, many methanotrophs contain an inherent isoprenoid pathway that enables them to synthesize pigments and which may be engineered for the production of non-endogenous isoprenoid compounds. Since methanotrophs can use the single carbon substrates of methane and/or methanol as an energy source, it is possible to produce carotenoids at low cost in these organisms. One such example wherein a methanotroph is engineered for production of one or more carotenoids is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,969,595; incorporated herein by reference. 
 In one embodiment, the present invention provides methods for the expression of genes encoding bacterial oxygen binding proteins in microorganisms that are able to use single carbon substrates as a sole energy source. The host microorganism may be any C 1  metabolizer that has the ability to synthesize farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) as a metabolic precursor for carotenoids. More specifically, facultative methylotrophic bacteria suitable in the present invention include, but are not limited to,  Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas , and  Pseudomonas . Specific methylotrophic yeasts useful in the present invention include, but are not limited to:  Candida, Hansenula, Pichia, Torulopsis , and  Rhodotorula . Exemplary methanotrophs include, but are not limited to the genera  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium , and  Methanomonas.    
 Of particular interest in the present invention are high growth obligate methanotrophs having an energetically favorable carbon flux pathway. For example, a specific strain of methanotroph having several pathway features that make it particularly useful for carbon flux manipulation is known as  Methylomonas  16a (ATCC PTA 2402) (U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601). This strain, derivatives of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a, and other related methylotrophs are preferred microbial hosts for expression of the gene products of this invention. That is, they are useful for the production of C 40  carotenoids, especially the production of ketocarotenoid and/or hydroxylated carotenoids such as canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. 
 Transformation of C1 Metabolizing Bacteria 
 Electroporation has been used successfully for the transformation of:  Methylobacterium extorquens  AM1 (Toyama, H., et al.,  FEMS Microbiol. Lett.  166:1–7 (1998)),  Methylophilus methylotrophus  AS1 (Kim, C. S., and T. K. Wood.,  Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.  48:105–108 (1997)), and  Methylobacillus  sp. strain 12S (Yoshida, T. et al.,  Biotechnol. Lett.,  23: 787–791 (2001)). Transformation of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof using bacterial conjugation has been reported (see U.S. Ser. Nos. 10/997,844 and 10/997,308; each herein incorporated by reference). 
 Bacterial conjugation is frequently more readily amenable for the transfer of genes into C1 metabolizing bacteria. This bacterial conjugation process involves simply mixing together “donor” and “recipient” cells in close contact with one another. Conjugation occurs by formation of cytoplasmic connections between donor and recipient bacteria, with direct transfer of newly synthesized donor DNA into the recipient cells. As is well known in the art, the recipient in a conjugation is defined as any cell that can accept DNA through horizontal transfer from a donor bacterium. The donor in conjugative transfer is a bacterium that contains a conjugative plasmid, conjugative transposon, or mobilizable plasmid. The physical transfer of the donor plasmid can occur in one of two fashions, as described below: 
 First, in cases when only a donor and recipient are required for conjugation, the plasmid to be transferred is a self-transmissible plasmid that is both conjugative and mobilizable. Thus, it carries both tra genes and genes encoding the Mob proteins. The process includes the following: Double-strand plasmid DNA is nicked at a specific site in oriT. A single-strand DNA is released to the recipient through a pore or pilus structure. A DNA relaxase enzyme cleaves the double-strand DNA at oriT and binds to a released 5′ end, forming a relaxosome as the intermediate structure. Subsequently, a complex of auxiliary proteins assemble at oriT to facilitate the process of DNA transfer. 
 Alternatively, in a “triparental” conjugation donor cells, recipient cells, and a “helper” plasmid participate. The donor cells carry a mobilizable plasmid or conjugative transposon. Mobilizable vectors contain an oriT, a gene encoding a nickase, and have genes encoding the Mob proteins. The Mob proteins alone are insufficient to achieve the transfer of the genome. Thus, mobilizable plasmids are not able to promote their own transfer unless an appropriate conjugation system is provided by a helper plasmid, located within either the donor or a “helper” cell). The conjugative plasmid is needed for the formation of the mating pair and DNA transfer, since the plasmid encodes proteins for transfer (Tra) that are involved in the formation of the pore or pilus. 
 Examples of successful conjugations involving C1 metabolizing bacteria are disclosed in Stolyar et al. ( Mikrobiologiya  64(5): 686–691 (1995)); Motoyama, H. et al. ( Appl. Micro. Biotech.  42(1): 67–72 (1994)); Lloyd, J. S. et al. ( Archives of Microbiology  171(6): 364–370 (1999)); and Odom, J. M. et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 6,969,595). 
 Industrial Production 
 A variety of culture methodologies may be applied. For example, large-scale production of a specific gene product overexpressed from a recombinant microbial host may be produced by both batch and continuous culture methodologies. 
 A classical batch culturing method is a closed system where the composition of the media is set at the beginning of the culture and not subject to artificial alterations during the culturing process. Thus, at the beginning of the culturing process, the media is inoculated with the desired organism or organisms and growth or metabolic activity may occur without adding anything further to the system. Typically, however, a “batch” culture is batch with respect to the addition of carbon source and attempts are often made to control factors such as pH and oxygen concentration. In batch systems the metabolite and biomass compositions of the system change constantly up to the time the culture is terminated. Within batch cultures cells moderate through a static lag phase to a high growth log phase and finally to a stationary phase where growth rate is diminished or halted. If untreated, cells in the stationary phase will eventually die. Cells in log phase are often responsible for the bulk of production of end product or intermediate in some systems. Stationary or post-exponential phase production can be obtained in other systems. 
 A variation on the standard batch system is the fed-batch system. Fed-batch culture processes are also suitable in the present invention and comprise a typical batch system except that the substrate is added in increments as the culture progresses. Fed-batch systems are useful when catabolite repression is apt to inhibit the metabolism of the cells and where it is desirable to have limited amounts of substrate in the media. Measurement of the actual substrate concentration in fed-batch systems is difficult and is estimated on the basis of the changes of measurable factors such as pH, dissolved oxygen and the partial pressure of waste gases such as CO 2 . Batch and fed-batch culturing methods are common and well known in the art and examples may be found in Thomas D. Brock in  Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology , Second Edition, Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, Mass. (1989) and Deshpande, Mukund V.,  Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol.,  36:227 (1992). 
 Commercial production of the desired products may also be accomplished with a continuous culture. Continuous cultures are an open system where a defined culture media is added continuously to a bioreactor and an equal amount of conditioned media is removed simultaneously for processing. Continuous cultures generally maintain the cells at a constant high liquid phase density where cells are primarily in log phase growth. Alternatively, continuous culture may be practiced with immobilized cells where carbon and nutrients are continuously added, and valuable products, by-products or waste products are continuously removed from the cell mass. Cell immobilization may be performed using a wide range of solid supports composed of natural and/or synthetic materials. 
 Continuous or semi-continuous culture allows for the modulation of one factor or any number of factors that affect cell growth or end product concentration. For example, one method will maintain a limiting nutrient such as the carbon source or nitrogen level at a fixed rate and allow all other parameters to moderate. In other systems a number of factors affecting growth can be altered continuously while the cell concentration, measured by media turbidity, is kept constant. Continuous systems strive to maintain steady state growth conditions and thus the cell loss due to media being drawn off must be balanced against the cell growth rate in the culture. Methods of modulating nutrients and growth factors for continuous culture processes as well as techniques for maximizing the rate of product formation are well known in the art of industrial microbiology and a variety of methods are detailed by Brock, supra. 
 Fermentation media in the present invention must contain suitable carbon substrates. Suitable substrates may include but are not limited to monosaccharides such as glucose and fructose, disaccharides such as lactose or sucrose, polysaccharides such as starch or cellulose or mixtures thereof and unpurified mixtures from renewable feedstocks such as cheese whey permeate, cornsteep liquor, sugar beet molasses, and barley malt. Additionally, the carbon substrate may also be one-carbon substrates such as carbon dioxide, methane or methanol for which metabolic conversion into key biochemical intermediates has been demonstrated. In addition to one and two carbon substrates, methylotrophic organisms are also known to utilize a number of other carbon containing compounds such as methylamine, glucosamine and a variety of amino acids for metabolic activity. For example, methylotrophic yeast are known to utilize the carbon from methylamine to form trehalose or glycerol (Bellion et al.,  Microb. Growth C 1  Compd. , [Int. Symp.], 7th (1993), 415–32. Editor(s): Murrell, J. Collin; Kelly, Don P. Publisher: Intercept, Andover, UK). Similarly, various species of  Candida  will metabolize alanine or oleic acid (Sulter et al.,  Arch. Microbiol.,  153:485–489 (1990)). Hence, it is contemplated that the source of carbon utilized in the present invention may encompass a wide variety of carbon containing substrates and will only be limited by the choice of organism. 
 Genes Involved in Carotenoid Production. 
 The present invention provides a method to increase carotenoid production, particularly oxygenated carotenoids, by expression of a truncated bacterial hemoglobin in a host cell, especially when grown under oxygen-limited (microaerobic) conditions. The enzymatic pathway involved in the biosynthesis of carotenoids is known in the art and can be viewed in two parts: the upper isoprenoid pathway providing for the conversion of pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, which provides for the synthesis of phytoene and all subsequently produced carotenoids. 
 The key division between the two pathways concerns the synthesis of farnesyl pyrophosphate. When the upper pathway naturally results in FPP—as it does in many microorganisms—it will only be necessary to introduce genes that govern the lower pathway to synthesize the desired carotenoid and/or to ensure that cellular FPP levels suffice for the production of carotenoids by lower pathway genes. When the upper pathway is not present in the host cell, it will be necessary to introduce the genes necessary for the production of FPP. The upper and lower pathway is discussed separately. 
 The Upper Isoprenoid Pathway 
 Isoprenoid biosynthesis occurs through one of two pathways and results in the common C 5  isoprene sub-unit, isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP). First, IPP may be synthesized through the well-known acetate/mevalonate pathway. However, recent studies have demonstrated that the mevalonate-dependent pathway does not operate in all living organisms. An alternate mevalonate-independent pathway for IPP biosynthesis has been characterized in bacteria and in green algae and higher plants (Horbach et al.,  FEMS Microbiol. Lett.,  111:135–140 (1993); Rohmer et al.,  Biochem.,  295:517–524 (1993); Schwender et al.,  Biochem.,  316:73–80 (1996); and Eisenreich et al.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci . USA, 93:6431–6436 (1996)). 
 Many steps in the mevalonate-independent isoprenoid pathway are known. See, e.g., Cole et al. ( Nature,  393:537–544 (1998), reporting the initial steps of the alternate pathway leading to the production of IPP in  Mycobacterium tuberculosis . The first step of this pathway involves the condensation of two 3-carbon molecules (pyruvate and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate) to yield a 5-carbon compound known as D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate. This reaction occurs by the DXS enzyme, encoded by the dxs gene. Next, the isomerization and reduction of D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate yields 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate. One of the enzymes involved in the isomerization and reduction process is D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR), encoded by the gene dxr (ispC). 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate is subsequently converted into 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol in a CTP-dependent reaction by the enzyme encoded by the non-annotated gene ygbP. Recently, however, the ygbP gene was renamed as ispD as a part of the isp gene cluster (SwissProtein Accession #Q46893). 
 Next, the 2 nd  position hydroxy group of 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol can be phosphorylated in an ATP-dependent reaction by the enzyme encoded by the ychB gene. This results in 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2-phosphate. The ychB gene was renamed as ispE, also as a part of the isp gene cluster (SwissProtein Accession #P24209). YgbB converts 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol 2-phosphate to 2C-methyl-D- erythritol  2,4-cyclodiphosphate in a CTP-dependent manner. This gene has also been recently renamed to ispF (SwissProtein Accession #P36663) and belongs to the isp gene cluster. 
 The enzymes encoded by the gcpE (ispG) and lytB (ispH) genes (and perhaps others) are thought to participate in the reactions leading to formation of isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) and dimethylallyl pyrophosphate (DMAPP). IPP may be isomerized to DMAPP via IPP isomerase, encoded by the idi gene. However, this enzyme is not essential for survival and may be absent in some bacteria using 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway. Recent evidence suggests that the MEP pathway branches before IPP and separately produces IPP and DMAPP via the lytB gene product. A lytB knockout mutation is lethal in  E. coli  except in media supplemented with both IPP and DMAPP. 
 The synthesis of FPP occurs via the isomerization of IPP to dimethylallyl pyrophosphate. This reaction is followed by a sequence of two prenyltransferase reactions catalyzed by ispA, leading to the creation of geranyl pyrophosphate (GPP), a 10-carbon molecule and farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP), a 15-carbon molecule. 
 The Lower Carotenoid Biosynthetic Pathway 
 The division between the upper isoprenoid pathway and the lower carotenoid pathway is somewhat subjective. Because FPP synthesis is common in both carotenogenic and non-carotenogenic bacteria, the first step in the lower carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is considered to begin with the prenyltransferase reaction converting farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) to geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP). The gene crtE, encoding GGPP synthetase, is responsible for this prenyltransferase reaction which adds IPP to FPP to produce the 20-carbon molecule GGPP. A condensation reaction of two molecules of GGPP occurs to form phytoene (PPPP), the first 40-carbon molecule of the lower carotenoid biosynthesis pathway. This enzymatic reaction is catalyzed by crtB, encoding phytoene synthase. 
 Lycopene, which imparts “red” colored spectra, is produced from phytoene through four sequential dehydrogenation reactions by the removal of eight atoms of hydrogen, catalyzed by the gene crtI encoding phytoene desaturase. Intermediaries in this reaction are phytofluene, zeta-carotene, and neurosporene. 
 Lycopene cyclase (crtY) converts lycopene to β-carotene. However, additional genes may be used to create a variety of other carotenoids. For example, β-carotene is converted to zeaxanthin via a hydroxylation reaction resulting from the activity of β-carotene hydroxylase (encoded by the crtZ gene). β-cryptoxanthin is an intermediate in this reaction ( FIG. 1 ). 
 β-carotene can be converted to canthaxanthin by β-carotene ketolase encoded by either the crtW or crtO genes. Echinenone is typically an intermediate in this reaction. Canthaxanthin can be converted to astaxanthin by β-carotene hydroxylase encoded by the crtZ gene. Adonbirubrin is an intermediate in this reaction ( FIG. 1 ). 
 Preferred sources of the carotenoid genes are from  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/808,807),  Enterobacteriaceae  DC260 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/808,979),  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433), and  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433). 
 By using various combinations of the above mentioned carotenoid biosynthesis genes, numerous different carotenoids and carotenoid derivatives could be made using the methods described herein, provided that sufficient sources of FPP are available in the host organism. For example, the gene cluster crtEYIB enables the production of β-carotene. Addition of the crtZ to crtEYIB enables the production of zeaxanthin. Further addition of crtW to crtEYIBZ enables the production of astaxanthin. 
 Applicants specifically incorporate the entire contents of all cited references in this disclosure. Further, when an amount, concentration, or other value or parameter is given either as a range, preferred range, or a list of upper preferable values and lower preferable values, this is to be understood as specifically disclosing all ranges formed from any pair of any upper range limit or preferred value and any lower range limit or preferred value, regardless of whether ranges are separately disclosed. Where a range of numerical values is recited herein, unless otherwise stated, the range is intended to include the endpoints thereof, and all integers and fractions within the range. It is not intended that the scope of the invention be limited to the specific values recited when defining a range. 
 EXAMPLES 
 The present invention is further defined in the following Examples. It should be understood that these Examples illustrate, and do not exclusively define, the invention. From the above discussion and these Examples, one skilled in the art can ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention and can make changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions. 
 General Methods 
 Standard recombinant DNA and molecular cloning techniques used in the Examples are well known in the art and are described by Maniatis, (supra) and by T. J. Silhavy, M. L. Bennan, and L. W. Enquist,  Experiments with Gene Fusions , Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1984) and by Ausubel, F. M. et al.,  Current Protocols in Molecular Biology , pub. by Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley-Interscience (1987). 
 Materials and methods suitable for the maintenance and growth of bacterial cultures are well known in the art. Techniques suitable for use in the following examples may be found as set out in  Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology  (Phillipp Gerhardt, R. G. E. Murray, Ralph N. Costilow, Eugene W. Nester, Willis A. Wood, Noel R. Krieg and G. Briggs Phillips, eds), American Society for Microbiology, Washington, D.C. (1994)) or by Brock (supra). All reagents, restriction enzymes and materials used for the growth and maintenance of bacterial cells were obtained from Aldrich Chemicals (Milwaukee, Wis.), DIFCO Laboratories (Detroit, Mich.), GIBCO/BRL (Gaithersburg, Md.), Invitrogen (Carlsbad, Calif.) or Sigma Chemical Company (St. Louis, Mo.) unless otherwise specified. 
 Manipulations of genetic sequences were accomplished using the suite of programs available from the Genetics Computer Group Inc. (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, Wis.). Where the GCG program “Pileup” was used, the gap creation default value of 12, and the gap extension default value of 4 were used. Where the GCG “Gap” or “Bestfit” programs were used, the default gap creation penalty of 50 and the default gap extension penalty of 3 were used. In any case where GCG program, parameters were not prompted for, in these or any other GCG program, default values were used. 
 The meaning of abbreviations is as follows: “sec” means second(s), “min” means minute(s), “h” means hour(s), “d” means day(s), “μL” means microliter, “mL” means milliliters, “L” means liters, “μM” means micromolar, “mM” means millimolar, “M” means molar, “mmol” means millimole(s), “μmole” mean micromole”, “g” means gram, “μg” means microgram, “ng” means nanogram, “U” means units, “bp” means base pairs, “kB” means kilobase, “psi” means pounds per square inch, “EDTA” means ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. 
 Plasmids 
 For ease of understanding, the following plasmids were used in these studies and reported in Table 1. 
             TABLE 1                 Plasmids used in this application           Plasmid   Backbone   Expressed genes and Organism*               pTrcHis2-   vector   None       TOPO ® TA       pDCQ385TA   pTrcHis2-TOPO   thbN1( Methylomonas )       pDCQ386TA   pTrcHis2-TOPO   thbN2( Methylomonas )       pDCQ387TA   pTrcHis2-TOPO   thbO( Methylomonas )       pBHR1   vector   None       pDCQ385   pBHR1   thbN1( Methylomonas )       pDCQ386   pBHR1   thbN2( Methylomonas )       pDCQ387   pBHR1   thbO( Methylomonas )       pDCQ365   pBHR1   crtW(DC18)crtZ( Sphingomonas )       pDCQ391   pBHR1   thbO( Methylomonas )               crtW(DC18)crtZ( Sphingomonas )       pDCQ393   pBHR1   thbN1( Methylomonas )               crtW(DC18)crtZ( Sphingomonas )       pDCQ394   pBHR1   thbN2( Methylomonas )               crtW(DC18)crtZ( Sphingomonas )               *Organism refers to that from which the gene was isolated.           
Microbial Cultivation and Associated Analyses for  Methylomonas  16a
 
 The following summarizes the standard conditions used for growth of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC# PTA-2402) and derivatives thereof, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601, incorporated herein by reference. Briefly, the following conditions were used throughout the experimental Examples for treatment of  Methylomonas  sp., unless conditions were specifically mentioned to be different. 
   Methylomonas  sp. is typically grown in serum stoppered Wheaton bottles (Wheaton Scientific, Wheaton Ill.) using a gas/liquid ratio of at least 8:1 (i.e., 20 mL of Nitrate liquid “BTZ-3” media of 160 mL total volume). The standard gas phase for cultivation contained 25% methane in air. These conditions comprise growth conditions and the cells are referred to as growing cells. In all cases, the cultures were grown at 30° C. with constant shaking in a Lab-Line rotary shaker unless otherwise specified. 
 For assays of carotenoid composition,  Methylomonas  transconjugants were cultured in a 24-well block (Qiagen, Valencia, Calif.) with each well containing 1–5 mL BTZ-3 containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL). The block was covered with a microporous tape sheet (Airpore™ film; Qiagen) and incubated in an AnaeroPack™ System (Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co., Inc., Tokyo, Japan) filled with 25% methane as the sole carbon source. The AnaeroPack™ was shaking at 250 rpm for 2–3 days at 30° C. 
 Nitrate Medium for  Methylomonas  16a 
 Nitrate liquid medium, also referred to herein as “defined medium” or “BTZ-3” medium was comprised of various salts mixed with  Solution  1 as indicated below (Tables 2 and 3); or, where specified, the nitrate was replaced with 15 mM ammonium chloride.  Solution  1 provides the composition for a 100 fold concentrated stock solution of trace minerals. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   Solution  1* 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 Conc. 
   
 
 
   
 MW 
 (mM) 
 g per L 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 Nitriloacetic acid 
 191.1 
 66.9 
 12.8 
 
 
   
 CuCl 2  × 2H 2 O 
 170.48 
 0.15 
 0.0254 
 
 
   
 FeCl 2  × 4H 2 O 
 198.81 
 1.5 
 0.3 
 
 
   
 MnCl 2  × 4H 2 O 
 197.91 
 0.5 
 0.1 
 
 
   
 CoCl 2  × 6H 2 O 
 237.9 
 1.31 
 0.312 
 
 
   
 ZnCl 2   
 136.29 
 0.73 
 0.1 
 
 
   
 H 3 BO 3   
 61.83 
 0.16 
 0.01 
 
 
   
 Na 2 MoO 4  × 2H 2 O 
 241.95 
 0.04 
 0.01 
 
 
   
 NiCl 2  × 6H 2 O 
 237.7 
 0.77 
 0.184 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 *Mix the gram amounts designated above in 900 mL of H 2 O, adjust to pH = 7, and add H 2 O to an end volume of 1 L. Keep refrigerated. 
 
 
 
 
 
             TABLE 3                 Nitrate liquid medium (BTZ-3)**                   Conc.               MW   (mM)   g per L                               NaNO 3     84.99   10   0.85               KH 2 PO 4     136.09   3.67   0.5           Na 2 SO 4     142.04   3.52   0.5           MgCl 2  × 6H 2 O   203.3   0.98   0.2           CaCl 2  × 2H 2 O   147.02   0.68   0.1           1 M HEPES (pH 7)   238.3       50     mL             Solution        1           10   mL                       **Dissolve in 900 mL H 2 O. Adjust to pH = 7, and add H 2 O to give 1 L. For agar plates: Add 15 g of agarose in 1 L of medium, autoclave, let cool down to 50° C., mix, and pour plates.           
Carotenoid Determination
 
 Cells were pelleted by centrifugation at 4000 g for 15 min, and the cell pellets were extracted with 10 mL acetone. The extraction was dried under nitrogen and redissolved in 1–2 mL of acetone. The extraction was filtered with an Acrodisc® CR25 mm syringe filter (Pall Corporation, Ann Arbor, Mich.). It was then concentrated in 0.1 mL 10% acetone+90% acetonitrile for HPLC analysis using an Agilent Series 1100 LC/MSD SI (Agilent, Foster City, Calif.). 
 Samples (20 μL) were loaded onto a 150 mm×4.6 mm ZORBAX C18 (3.5 μm particles) column (Agilent Technologies, Inc., Palo Alto, Calif.). The column temperature was kept at 40° C. The flow rate was 1 mL/min, while the solvent running program used was
         0–2 min: 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B;   2–10 min: linear gradient from 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B to 60% Buffer A and 40% Buffer B;   10–12 min: linear gradient from 60% Buffer A and 40% Buffer B to 50% Buffer A and 50% Buffer B;   12–18 min: 50% Buffer A and 50% Buffer B; and,   18–20 min: 95% Buffer A and 5% Buffer B.       
 Buffer A was 95% acetonitrile and 5% dH 2 O; Buffer B was 100% tetrahydrofuran. The mass spectrometer was scanned from 250 to 900 e/z in APCI (Atmospheric Pressure Chemical Ionization) mode with the fragmentation voltage at 70 V. 
 Example 1 
 Isolation of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a 
 The original environmental sample containing the isolate was obtained from pond sediment. The pond sediment was inoculated directly into defined medium with ammonium as the nitrogen source under 25% methane in air. Methane was the sole source of carbon and energy. Growth was followed until the optical density at 660 nm was stable, whereupon the culture was transferred to fresh medium such that a 1:100 dilution was achieved. After 3 successive transfers with methane as the sole carbon and energy source, the culture was plated onto BTZ-3 agar with ammonium as nitrogen source and incubated under 25% methane in air. Many methanotrophic bacterial species were isolated in this manner. However,  Methylomonas  sp. 16a was selected as the organism to study due to its rapid growth of colonies, large colony size, ability to grow on minimal media, and pink pigmentation indicative of an active biosynthetic pathway for carotenoids.  Methylomonas  sp. 16a has been deposited to the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) under accession number PTA-2402 (deposited Aug. 22, 2000; see U.S. Pat. No. 6,689,601). 
 Example 2 
 Genomic Sequencing of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a 
 Genomic DNA was isolated from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a according to standard protocols. Genomic DNA and library construction were prepared according to published protocols (Fraser et al.,  Science,  270 (5235):397–403 (1995)). A cell pellet was resuspended in a solution containing 100 mM Na-EDTA pH 8.0, 10 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, 400 mM NaCl, and 50 mM MgCl 2 . 
 Genomic DNA preparation After resuspension, the cells were gently lysed in 10% SDS (sodium dodecyl sulfate), and incubated for 30 min at 55° C. After incubation at room temperature, proteinase K was added to 100 μg/mL and incubated at 37° C. until the suspension was clear. DNA was extracted twice with Tris-equilibrated phenol and twice with chloroform. DNA was precipitated in 70% ethanol and resuspended in a solution containing 10 mM Tris-HCl and 1 mM Na-EDTA (TE), pH 7.5. The DNA solution was treated with a mix of RNAases, then extracted twice with Tris-equilibrated phenol and twice with chloroform. This was followed by precipitation in ethanol and resuspension in TE. 
 Library construction: 200 to 500 μg of chromosomal DNA was resuspended in a solution of 300 mM sodium acetate, 10 mM Tris-HCl, 1 mM Na-EDTA, and 30% glycerol, and sheared at 12 psi for 60 sec in an Aeromist Downdraft Nebulizer chamber (IBI Medical products, Chicago, Ill.). The DNA was precipitated, resuspended and treated with Bal31 nuclease. After size fractionation, a fraction (2.0 kb or 5.0 kb) was excised and cleaned, and a two-step ligation procedure was used to produce a high titer library with greater than 99% single inserts. 
 Sequencing: A shotgun sequencing strategy approach was adopted for the sequencing of the whole microbial genome (Fleischmann, R. et al.,  Science  269(5223):496–512 (1995)). Sequence was generated on an ABI Automatic sequencer using dye terminator technology (U.S. Pat. No. 5,366,860; EP 272,007) using a combination of vector and insert-specific primers. Sequence editing was performed in either DNAStar (DNA Star Inc.) or the Wisconsin GCG program (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, Wis.) and the CONSED package (version 7.0). All sequences represent average of 8X coverage in both directions. 
 Example 3 
 Identification of Bacterial Hemoglobin Genes from  Methylomonas    
 All sequences from Example 2 were identified by conducting BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool; Altschul, S. F., et al.,  J. Mol. Biol.,  215:403–410 (1993)) searches for similarity to sequences contained in the BLAST “nr” database (comprising all non-redundant GenBank® CDS translations, sequences derived from the 3-dimensional structure Brookhaven Protein Data Bank, the SWISS-PROT protein sequence database, EMBL, and DDBJ databases). The sequences were analyzed for similarity to all publicly available DNA sequences contained in the “nr” database using the BLASTN algorithm provided by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). The DNA sequences were translated in all reading frames and compared for similarity to all publicly available protein sequences contained in the “nr” database using the BLASTX algorithm (Gish, W., and States, D. J.,  Nature Genetics,  3:266–272 (1993)) provided by the NCBI. All comparisons were done using either the BLASTNnr or BLASTXnr algorithm. 
 The results of these BLAST comparisons are given below in Table 4 for the present genes. Table 4 summarizes the sequence to which each  Methylomonas  gene has the most similarity (presented as % similarities, % identities, and expectation values). The table displays data based on the BLASTXnr algorithm with values reported in expect values. The Expect value estimates the statistical significance of the match, specifying the number of matches, with a given score, that are expected in a search of a database of this size absolutely by chance. 
 Three bacterial hemoglobin genes were identified in the genome of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a. They all belong to the family of truncated hemoglobins. Two of them (thbN1 and thbN2) belong to the group I truncated hemoglobins. The third one (thbO) belong to the group II truncated hemoglobins. The top hit of BLAST search for thbN1 was to a cyanobacterial globin family protein in  Methylococcus capsulatus  Bath (81% amino acid identity). The top hit of BLAST search for thbN2 was to the same cyanobacterial globin family protein in  Methylococcus capsulatus  Bath (64% amino acid identity). The thbN1 and thbN2 genes from  Methylomonas  sp. 16a share 69% amino acid identity and 65% nucleotide identity between each other. However, they share no significant homology with the group II truncated hemoglobin thbO (<17–20% amino acid identities). The top hit of BLAST search for thbO was to a conserved hypothetical protein in  Methylococcus capsulatus  Bath (62% amino acid identity). The thbO gene shares ˜50% amino acid identities to a putative globin from  Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus  and to truncated hemoglobins from  Rubrivivax gelatinosus  and  Ralstonia metallidurans . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 4 
 
 
   
 
 
 ORF 
 Gene 
   
   
 SEQ ID 
 % 
 % 
   
   
   
 
 
 Name 
 Name 
 Similarity Identified  
 SEQ ID 
 peptide 
 Identity a   
 Similarity b   
 E-value c   
 Citation 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 1 
 tHbN1 
 gb|AAU91352.1| 
 1 
 2 
 81 
 89 
  e−49 
 Ward, N. et al 
   
 
 
   
   
 Cyanobacterial globin 
   
   
   
   
   
 PLoS Biol.2 (10), E303 
 
 
   
   
 family protein 
   
   
   
   
   
 (2004) 
 
 
   
   
 [ Methylococcus   
 
 
   
   
   capsulatus  strain Bath] 
 
 
   
 
 
 2 
 tHbN2 
 gb|AAU91352.1| 
 3 
 4 
 64 
 73 
  e−38 
 Ward, N. et al 
 
 
   
   
 Cyanobacterial globin 
   
   
   
   
   
 PLoS Biol.2 (10), E303 
 
 
   
   
 family protein 
   
   
   
   
   
 (2004) 
 
 
   
   
 [ Methylococcus   
 
 
   
   
   capsulatus  strain Bath] 
 
 
   
 
 
 3 
 thbO 
 gb|AAU91861.1| 
 5 
 6 
 62 
 74 
 2e−40 
 Ward, N. et al 
 
 
   
   
 Conserved hypothetical 
   
   
   
   
   
 PLoS Biol.2 (10), E303 
 
 
   
   
 protein 
   
   
   
   
   
 (2004) 
 
 
   
   
 [ Methylococcus   
 
 
   
   
   capsulatus  strain Bath] 
 
 
   
 
 
   a % Identity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical between the two proteins. 
 
 
   b % Similarity is defined as percentage of amino acids that are identical or conserved between the two proteins. 
 
 
   c Expect value. The Expect value estimates the statistical significance of the match, specifying the number of matches, with a given score, that are expected in a search of a database of this size absolutely by chance. % Identity, % similarity, and e-values are all reported according to BLAST analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Example 4 
 Expression of  Methylomonas  Hemoglobin Genes in Recombinant  E. coli    
 The thbN1, thbN2 and thbO genes were PCR amplified from the genomic DNA of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a using primers listed in Table 5. The PCR conditions were as follows: 5 min at 95° C.; then 35 cycles at 92° C. for 1 min, 55° C. for 1 min, and 72° C. for 1 min; followed by additional 10 min at 72° C. Underlined in the primer sequences are the incorporated SpeI sites. The 400 bp˜450 bp PCR products were gel purified and cloned into pTrcHis2-TOPO® TA vector (Invitrogen), resulting in plasmids pDCQ385TA, pDCQ386TA and pDCQ387TA.  E. coli  DH10B cells containing these plasmids appear red on LB plates, indicating expression of the hemoglobin genes. The color of cells containing pDCQ385TA (expressing thbN1) and pDCQ386TA (expressing thbN2) was darker than cells containing pDCQ387TA (expressing thbO). 
 The Phps1 promoter (also referred to herein as the “hps” promoter; SEQ ID NO: 7) was amplified from  Methylomonas  16a genomic DNA using the  upstream primer  5′- CCATGGGCTAGC TAAGGATTGGGGTGCGT-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 8) and the  downstream primer  5′- CCATGGACTAGT GTGATGTGCTCCGAAAGT-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 9). Underlined are the NcoI and NheI sites incorporated at the upstream end and the NcoI and SpeI sites incorporated at the downstream end. The 288 bp NcoI fragment containing Phps1 was cloned into the NcoI site of pBHR1 resulting pDCQ363. The SpeI fragments containing the thbN1, thbN2 and thbO genes were subcloned from the above three plasmids into the SpeI site of pDCQ363 plasmid, resulting in plasmids pDCQ385, pDCQ386 and pDCQ387. This set of plasmids contained the hemoglobin genes expressed on the lower copy number broad host range vector pBHR1 (MoBiTec, Goettingen, Germany).  E. coli  10G strains containing these plasmids were also red, however, the color was lighter comparing to the genes expressed from the higher copy number pTrcHis2-TOPO® vector (Invitrogen). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 5 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Primer sequences used in amplification of the 
   
 
 
 hemoglobin genes from  Methylomonas sp.  16a 
 
 
 
 
   
 Length 
   
 
 
 Name 
 (nt) 
 Oligo Sequence / (SEQ ID NOs.) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 gbN1-16a-F 
 34 
   ACTAGT ACAAGCAGAGGAAAATCATT ATG   
   
 
 
   
   
 AGTGC 
 
 
   
   
 (SEQ ID NO: 10) 
 
 
   
 
 
 gbN1-16a-R 
 27 
   ACTAG T     TA GCGACCCAATACGTCGGTG 
 
 
   
   
 (SEQ ID NO: 11) 
 
 
   
 
 
 gbN2-16a-F 
 31 
   ACTAGT AACTATGAGGATGCT ATG AGCGA 
 
 
   
   
 AG 
 
 
   
   
 (SEQ ID NO: 12) 
 
 
   
 
 
 gbN2-16a-R 
 26 
   ACTAGT   CTA CTTTCCTAAGACCTCGC 
 
 
   
   
 (SEQ ID NO: 13) 
 
 
   
 
 
 gbO-16a-F 
 43 
   ACTAGT AAGGAGGAATAAACC ATG TCAGC 
 
 
   
   
 ACAAACGCCCTATG 
 
 
   
   
 (SEQ ID NO: 14) 
 
 
   
 
 
 gbO-16a-R 
 28 
   ACTAG T     CA ACTTCGATCGTCTGCGGTAC 
 
 
   
   
 (SEQ ID NO: 15) 
 
 
   
 
 
 The underlined sequences are the incorporated SpeI sites. The bold sequences indicate the positions of the start and stop codons of the hemoglobin sequences. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Example 5 
 Effect of  Methylomonas  Hemoglobin Gene Expression on  E. coli  Final Cell Density 
   E. coli  cells expressing the heterologous hemoglobin genes were compared with the cells containing the vector control for final cell density.  E. coli  DH10B cells containing pDCQ385TA, pDCQ386TA, pDCQ387TA or pTrcHis2A (pTrcHis2A is a circular version of pTrcHis2-TOPO®. The pTrcHis2-TOPO® vector is a linearized vector ready for ligation) were grown at 37° C. shaking 250 rpm overnight in 25 mL LB with 100 μg/mL ampicillin in 125-mL flasks.  E. coli  10G cells containing pDCQ385, pDCQ386, pDCQ387 or pBHR1 were grown at 37° C. shaking 250 rpm overnight in 25 mL LB with 50 μg/mL kanamycin in 125-mL flasks. The OD 600  of the overnight cultures was adjusted to 2.5 and diluted 1:100 with fresh growth media. The diluted cultures were aliquoted to 50 mL/125 mL flask or 15 mL/125 mL flask in triplicates. The cultures were grown at 37° C. shaking 250 rpm for 24 hours. At the end of incubation, 0.1 mL culture was diluted with 0.9 mL LB and measured for OD 600 . The data for the final cell density (OD 600 ) of the cultures were shown in  FIG. 3 . Top panel showed that on high copy number expression vector, thbN1 and thbN2 clones exhibited approximately 15% higher final cell density, whereas thbO clone exhibited approximately 7% higher final cell density comparing to the vector control strain when growing under oxygen limiting condition (50 mL culture volume). The increase of final cell density was much less (3–5%) when growing under oxygen sufficient condition (15 mL culture volume). When the hemoglobin genes were expressed on the low copy number vector (bottom panel), approximately 6% higher final cell density was observed under oxygen limiting condition and no correlation was observed under oxygen sufficient condition. 
 Example 6 
 Effect of Multicopy Expression of Hemoglobin Genes in  Methylomonas  on Astaxanthin Production 
 A  Methylomonas  astaxanthin-producing strain ( Methylomonas  strain AX1-8) containing carotenoid synthesis genes integrated in the chromosome was used as the host to evaluate the effect of over-expression of hemoglobin genes on the astaxanthin production. Briefly,  Methylomonas  strain AX1-8 was created by chromosomally-integrating into  Methylomonas  sp. orihps333: 1) a crtWZ gene cluster into the ald genomic region (U.S. Ser. No. 10/997,844), and 2) an additional copy of a crtZ carotenoid hydroxylase gene into the tig genomic region (U.S. Ser. No. 11/070,080). 
 Briefly, the a nucleic acid molecule comprising the crtWZ coding regions was PCR amplified using primer pair HY-109 (5′-GGCCATGCCAATTGACTAGAAAGGAGGMTAAACCATGACCGTCGAT CACGACGCA-3′; SEQ ID NO: 16) and HY-107 (5′-CGCGTACGCCTAGGTCAGGCGCCGTTGCTGGATGAGCCGCGT-3′; SEQ ID NO: 17) from the carotenoid gene cluster crtWZEYIB found in plasmid pDCQ343 (SEQ ID NO: 18; U.S. Ser. No. 11/227,663; herein incorporated by reference). The amplified fragment was digested with MfeI+AvrII, then cloned into the integration plasmid pAldcrtNhps at the MfeI and AvrII sites, operably linking the crtWZ coding regions to the hps promoter and creating plasmid pAldcrtNhps-WZ(343).  Methylomonas  sp. orihps333 was transformed with the integration plasmid, where integration the crtWZ cluster (operably linked to an hps promoter) occurred at the ald region, resulting in  Methylomonas  strain orihps333-AldhpsWZ. The coding region of an additional crtZ carotenoid hydroxylase gene was PCR amplified from crt cluster 343 using primer pair HY-117 (5′-CCATGCGMTTCACTAGAAAGGAGGMTAAACCATGTCCTGGCCGAC GATG-3′; SEQ ID NO: 19) and HY-118 (5′-GACTGAATTCTCAGGCGCCGTTGCTGGATGAGCCGCGT-3′; SEQ ID NO: 20), digested with EcoRI, and cloned into the integration plasmid pTig at the EcoRI site, creating integration plasmid pTigcrtZ(343).  Methylomonas  strain orihps333-AldhpsWZ was transformed with integration plasmid pTigcrtZ(343), where the additional crtZ gene was integrated into the tig region, creating  Methylomonas  strain AX1-8. 
 The hemoglobin expression clones pDCQ385, pDCQ386, pDCQ387 and pBHR1 vector were introduced into the  Methylomonas  strain by tri-parental conjugation. The  E. coli  10G donor strains containing these plasmids and an  E. coli  helper strain containing pRK2013 (ATCC No. 37159) were grown overnight in LB medium containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL), washed three times in LB, and resuspended in a volume of LB representing approximately a 60-fold concentration of the original culture volume.  Methylomonas  sp. AX-1 recipient strain was grown in serum stoppered Wheaton bottles (Wheaton Scientific, Wheaton Ill.) using a gas/liquid ratio of at least 8:1 (i.e., 20 mL of Nitrate liquid “BTZ-3” media in 160 mL total-volume) at 30° C. with constant shaking. The donor, helper, and recipient cell pastes were combined in ratios of 1:1:2, respectively, on the surface of BTZ-3 agar plates containing 0.5% (w/v) yeast extract. Plates were maintained at 30° C. in 25% methane for 16–72 hours to allow conjugation to occur, after which the cell pastes were collected and resuspended in BTZ-3. Dilutions were plated on BTZ-3 agar containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL) and incubated at 30° C. in 25% methane for up to 1 week. Orange-red transconjugants were streaked onto BTZ-3 agar with kanamycin (50 μg/mL). The purified transconjugants were grown in a 24-well block (Qiagen) with each well containing 1–4 mL BTZ-3 containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL). The block was covered with Airpore™ film (Qiagen) and incubated in a sealed container such as the AnaeroPack™ System (Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co., Inc., Japan) filled with 25% methane as the sole carbon source. The AnaeroPack™ was shaking at 250 rpm for 2–3 days at 30° C. The cells were pelleted by centrifugation and carotenoids in the cell pellets were analyzed by HPLC. 
 When cells were grown in 1 mL/well, efficient gas transfer allowed sufficient oxygen for the cells. All the strains produced >80% astaxanthin in the total carotenoids. When the culture volume increased per well, oxygen became limited for the cells due to inefficient gas transfer and astaxanthin production decreased ( FIG. 4 ). 
 Example 7 
 Effect of Multicopy Expression of Hemoglobin Genes with the crtWZ in  Methylomonas  on Astaxanthin Production 
 In Example 6, it is shown that overexpression of hemoglobins alone on plasmids did not significantly improve astaxanthin production when overexpressed in a carotenogenic host cell having two chromosomally-integrated CrtW ketolase and CrtZ hydroxylase genes. This limited effect observed on carotenoid production may have been attributed to the relative low expression levels of the ketolase and hydroxylase genes (both require molecular oxygen for their respective activities) on the chromosome. Here the hemoglobin genes with additional crtWZ genes were overexpressed on multicopy plasmids, and compared with overexpression of crtWZ only control on plasmids to determine if hemoglobins could improve the function: of the oxygen-requiring CrtWZ to improve astaxanthin production. 
 Plasmid pDCQ365 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/200,394) containing the crtW from  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (U.S. Ser. No. 11/015,433; SEQ ID NO: 21) and the crtZ from  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  (U.S. Ser. No. 11/200,394; SEQ ID NO: 22) expressed under an endogenous  Methylomonas  promoter Phps1 (U.S. Ser. No. 10/689,200; SEQ ID NO: 7). The  Methylomonas  hemoglobin genes thbN1, thbN2 or thbO were cut out as SpeI fragments from pDCQ385TA, pDCQ386TA or pDCQ387TA and cloned upstream of the crtWZ in pDCQ365. The resulted plasmid, pDCQ393, comprises thbN1 co-expressed with crtWZ. The resulted plasmid pDCQ394 comprises thbN2 co-expressed with crtWZ. The resulted plasmid pDCQ391 comprises thbO co-expressed with crtWZ.  Methylomonas  strain AX1-8 (an astaxanthin producing strain) was used as the host to evaluate the effect of co-expression of hemoglobin genes with crtWZ on the astaxanthin conversion. The hemoglobin and crtWZ co-expression clones pDCQ393, pDCQ394, pDCQ391 and the pDCQ365 and pBHR1 controls were introduced into the  Methylomonas  strain AX1-8 by tri-parental conjugation. The  E. coli  10G donor strains containing these plasmids and an  E. coli  helper strain containing pRK2013 (ATCC No. 37159) were grown overnight in LB medium containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL), washed three times in LB, and resuspended in a volume of LB representing approximately a 60-fold concentration of the original culture volume.  Methylomonas  sp. AX1-8 recipient strain was grown in serum stoppered Wheaton bottles (Wheaton Scientific, Wheaton Ill.) using a gas/liquid ratio of at least 8:1 (i.e., 20 mL of Nitrate liquid “BTZ-3” media in 160 mL total volume) at 30° C. with constant shaking. The donor, helper, and recipient cell pastes were combined in ratios of 1:1:2, respectively, on the surface of BTZ-3 agar plates containing 0.5% (w/v) yeast extract. Plates were maintained at 30° C. in 25% methane for 16–72 hours to allow conjugation to occur, after which the cell pastes were collected and resuspended in BTZ-3. Dilutions were plated on BTZ-3 agar containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL) and incubated at 30° C. in 25% methane for up to 1 week. Orange-red transconjugants were streaked onto BTZ-3 agar with kanamycin (50 μg/mL). The purified transconjugants were grown in a 24-well block (Qiagen) with each well containing 1–5 mL BTZ-3 containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL). The block was covered with Airpore™ film (Qiagen) and incubated in an AnaeroPack™ System (Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co.) filled with 25% methane as the sole carbon source. The AnaeroPack™ was shaking at 250 rpm for 2–3 days at 30° C. The cells were pelleted by centrifugation and carotenoids in the cell pellets were analyzed by HPLC as described above ( FIG. 5 ). 
 The top panel of  FIG. 5  showed the astaxanthin selectivity, which is the percentage of astaxanthin in the total carotenoids produced. When cells were grown in 1 mL/well, efficient gas transfer allowed sufficient oxygen for the cells. All the strains produced >80% astaxanthin in the total carotenoids. When the culture volume increased per well, oxygen became limited for the cells due to inefficient gas transfer and astaxanthin production decreased. In the cases of growing 4 mL/well, strain containing the pBHR1 vector produced about 46% astaxanthin and the strain containing pDCQ365 expressing crtWZ produced about 62% astaxanthin. The strains containing pDCQ393 or pDCQ394 expressing the thbN1-crtWZ or thbN2-crtWZ produced close to 80% astaxanthin, whereas pDCQ391 expressing the thbO-crtWZ produced slightly higher percentage (about 65%) of astaxanthin. In the cases of growing 5 mL/well, strain containing the pBHR1 vector produced about 13% astaxanthin and the strain containing pDCQ365 expressing crtWZ produced about 42% astaxanthin. The strains containing pDCQ393 or pDCQ394 expressing the thbN1-crtWZ or thbN2-crtWZ produced about 60% astaxanthin, whereas pDCQ391 expressing the thbO-crtWZ produced slightly higher percentage (about 48%) of astaxanthin. The bottom panel of  FIG. 5  showed the relative amount of astaxanthin produced in the strains. They were calculated from the area of astaxanthin peaks on HPLC normalized by cell densities. When cells were grown in 1 mL/well, the strains produced similar amount of astaxanthin. When cells were grown in 4 mL/well or 5 mL/well, strains co-expressed hemoglobins and CrtWZ produced higher amount of astaxanthin than the strains expressed the CrtWZ alone or the vector plasmid. Under the same growth conditions, the total carotenoids produced from the strains were similar. Hemoglobins most likely improved the activity of the oxygen-requiring CrtWZ enzymes for astaxanthin conversion, which enhanced the astaxanthin production. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
