
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
 This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10/234,007, filed Sep. 3, 2002, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,132,280, issued Nov. 7, 2006, which is a divisional of application Ser. No. 09/549,463, filed Apr. 14, 2000, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,855,544, issued Feb. 15, 2005, the contents of the entirety of each of which, including each sequence listing, is incorporated by this reference, which application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60/129,452 filed Apr. 15, 1999. 
 STATEMENT ACCORDING TO 37 C.F.R. § 1.52(e)(5)-SEQUENCE LISTING SUBMITTED ON COMPACT DISC 
 Pursuant to 37 C.F.R. § 1.52(e)(1)(ii), a compact disc containing an electronic version of the Sequence Listing has been submitted concomitant with this application, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. A second compact disc is submitted and is an identical copy of the first compact disc. The discs are labeled “ copy  1” and “ copy  2,” respectively, and each disc contains one file entitled “SequenceListing.ST25.txt” which is 12 KB and created on Mar. 1, 2005. 
 TECHNICAL FIELD 
 The invention generally relates to the field of recombinant protein production, more particularly to the use of a human cell for the production of proteins. The invention further relates to the production of monoclonal antibodies and, more in particular, to the use of a human cell for producing monoclonal antibodies. The invention further relates to the field of production of viral proteins. The invention is particularly useful for the production of vaccines to aid in protection against viral pathogens for vertebrates, in particular mammalians, especially humans. The invention is particularly useful for the production of proteins that benefit from post-translational or peri-translational modifications such as glycosylation and proper folding. 
 BACKGROUND 
 The expression of human recombinant proteins in heterologous cells has been well documented. Many production systems for recombinant proteins have become available, ranging from bacteria, yeasts, and fungi to insect cells, plant cells and mammalian cells. However, despite these developments, some production systems are still not optimal, or are only suited for production of specific classes of proteins. For instance, proteins that require post- or peri-translational modifications such as glycosylation, g-carboxylation, or g-hydroxylation cannot be produced in prokaryotic production systems. Another well-known problem with prokaryotic expression systems is the incorrect folding of the product to be produced, even leading to insoluble inclusion bodies in many cases. 
 Eukaryotic systems are an improvement in the production of, in particular, eukaryote derived proteins, but the available production systems still suffer from a number of drawbacks. The hypermannosylation in, for instance, yeast strains affects the ability of yeasts to properly express glycoproteins. Hypermannosylation often even leads to immune reactions when a therapeutic protein thus prepared is administered to a patient. Furthermore, yeast secretion signals are different from mammalian signals, leading to a more problematic transport of mammalian proteins, including human polypeptides, to the extracellular, which in turn results in problems with continuous production and/or isolation. Mammalian cells are widely used for the production of such proteins because of their ability to perform extensive post-translational modifications. The expression of recombinant proteins in mammalian cells has evolved dramatically over the past years, resulting in many cases in a routine technology. 
 In particular, Chinese hamster ovary cells (“CHO cells”) have become a routine and convenient production system for the generation of biopharmaceutical proteins and proteins for diagnostic purposes. A number of characteristics make CHO cells very suitable as a host cell. The production levels that can be reached in CHO cells are extremely high. The cell line provides a safe production system, which is free of infectious or virus-like particles. CHO cells have been extensively characterized, although the history of the original cell line is vague. CHO cells can grow in suspension until reaching high densities in bioreactors, using serum-free culture media; a dhfr-mutant of CHO cells (DG-44 clone, Urlaub et al., 1983) has been developed to obtain an easy selection system by introducing an exogenous dhfr gene and thereafter a well-controlled amplification of the dhfr gene and the transgene using methotrexate. 
 However, glycoproteins or proteins comprising at least two (different) subunits continue to pose problems. The biological activity of glycosylated proteins can be profoundly influenced by the exact nature of the oligosaccharide component. The type of glycosylation can also have significant effects on immunogenicity, targeting and pharmacokinetics of the glycoprotein. In recent years, major advances have been made in the cellular factors that determine the glycosylation, and many glycosyl transferase enzymes have been cloned. This has resulted in research aimed at metabolic engineering of the glycosylation machinery (Fussenegger et al., 1999; Lee et al., 1989; Vonach et al., 1998; Jenikins et al., 1998; Zhang et al., 1998; Muchmore et al., 1989). Examples of such strategies are described herein. 
 CHO cells lack a functional a-2,6 sialyl-transferase enzyme, resulting in the exclusive addition of sialyc acids to galactose via a-2,3 linkages. It is known that the absence of a-2,6 linkages can enhance the clearance of a protein from the bloodstream. To address this problem, CHO cells have been engineered to resemble the human glycan profile by transfecting the appropriate glycosyl transferases. CHO cells are also incapable of producing LewisX oligosaccharides. CHO cell lines have been developed that express human N-acetyl-D-glucosaminyltransferase and a-1,3-fucosyl-transferase III. In contrast, it is known that rodent cells, including CHO cells, produce CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid hydrolase which glycosylates CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acids (Jenkins et al., 1996), an enzyme that is absent in humans. The proteins that carry this type of glycosylation can produce a strong immune response when injected (Kawashima et al., 1993). The recent identification of the rodent gene that encodes the hydrolase enzyme will most likely facilitate the development of CHO cells that lack this activity and will avoid this rodent-type modification. 
 Thus, it is possible to alter the glycosylation potential of mammalian host cells by expression of human glucosyl transferase enzymes. Yet, although the CHO-derived glycan structures on the recombinant proteins may mimic those present on their natural human counterparts, a potential problem exists in that they are still found to be far from identical. Another potential problem is that not all glycosylation enzymes have been cloned and are, therefore, available for metabolic engineering. The therapeutic administration of proteins that differ from their natural human counterparts may result in activation of the immune system of the patient and cause undesirable responses that may affect the efficacy of the treatment. Other problems using non-human cells may arise from incorrect folding of proteins that occurs during or after translation which might be dependent on the presence of the different available chaperone proteins. Aberrant folding may occur, leading to a decrease or absence of biological activity of the protein. Furthermore, the simultaneous expression of separate polypeptides that will together form proteins comprised of the different subunits, like monoclonal antibodies, in correct relative abundancies is of great importance. Human cells will be better capable of providing all necessary facilities for human proteins to be expressed and processed correctly. 
 It would thus be desirable to have methods for producing human recombinant proteins that involve a human cell that provides consistent human-type processing like post-translational and peri-translational modifications, such as glycosylation, which preferably is also suitable for large-scale production. 
 DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION 
 The invention thus provides a method for producing at least one proteinaceous substance in a cell including a eukaryotic cell having a sequence encoding at least one adenoviral E1 protein or a functional homologue, fragment and/or derivative thereof in its genome, which cell does not encode a structural adenoviral protein from its genome or a sequence integrated therein, the method including providing the cell with a gene encoding a recombinant proteinaceous substance, culturing the cell in a suitable medium and harvesting at least one proteinaceous substance from the cell and/or the medium. A proteinaceous substance is a substance including at least two amino-acids linked by a peptide bond. The substance may further include one or more other molecules physically linked to the amino acid portion or not. Non-limiting examples of such other molecules include carbohydrate and/or lipid molecules. 
 Nucleic acid encoding an adenovirus structural protein should not be present for a number of reasons. One reason is that the presence of an adenoviral structural protein in a preparation of produced protein is highly undesired in many applications of such produced protein. Removal of the structural protein from the product is best achieved by avoiding its occurrence in the preparation. Preferably, the eukaryotic cell is a mammalian cell. In a preferred embodiment, the proteinaceous substance harvested from the cell and the cell itself are derived from the same species. For instance, if the protein is intended to be administered to humans, it is preferred that both the cell and the proteinaceous substance harvested from the cell are of human origin. One advantage of a human cell is that most of the commercially most attractive proteins are human. 
 The proteinaceous substance harvested from the cell can be any proteinaceous substance produced by the cell. In one embodiment, at least one of the harvested proteinaceous substances is encoded by the gene. In another embodiment, a gene is provided to the cell to enhance and/or induce expression of one or more endogenously present genes in a cell, for instance, by providing the cell with a gene encoding a protein that is capable of enhancing expression of a proteinaceous substance in the cell. 
 As used herein, a “gene” is a nucleic acid including a nucleic acid of interest in an expressible format, such as an expression cassette. The nucleic acid of interest may be expressed from the natural promoter or a derivative thereof or an entirely heterologous promoter. The nucleic acid of interest can include introns or not. Similarly, it may be a cDNA or cDNA-like nucleic acid. The nucleic acid of interest may encode a protein. Alternatively, the nucleic acid of interest can encode an anti-sense RNA. 
 The invention further provides a method for producing at least one human recombinant protein in a cell, including providing a human cell having a sequence encoding at least an immortalizing E1 protein of an adenovirus or a functional derivative, homologue or fragment thereof in its genome, which cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins, with a nucleic acid encoding the human recombinant protein. The method involves culturing the cell in a suitable medium and harvesting at least one human recombinant protein from the cell and/or the medium. Until the present invention, few, if any, human cells exist that have been found suitable to produce human recombinant proteins in any reproducible and upscaleable manner. We have now found that cells which include at least immortalizing adenoviral E1 sequences in their genome are capable of growing (they are immortalized by the presence of E1) relatively independent of exogenous growth factors. Furthermore, these cells are capable of producing recombinant proteins in significant amounts which are capable of correctly processing the recombinant protein being made. Of course, these cells will also be capable of producing non-human proteins. The human cell lines that have been used to produce recombinant proteins in any significant amount are often tumor (transformed) cell lines. The fact that most human cells that have been used for recombinant protein production are tumor-derived adds an extra risk to working with these particular cell lines and results in very stringent isolation procedures for the recombinant protein in order to avoid transforming activity or tumorigenic material in any protein or other preparations. According to the invention, it is, therefore, preferred to employ a method wherein the cell is derived from a primary cell. In order to be able to grow indefinitely, a primary cell needs to be immortalized in some kind, which, in the present invention, has been achieved by the introduction of adenovirus E1. 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS 
   FIG. 1 : Schematic drawing of the pcDNA2000/DHFRwt construct. 
   FIG. 2 : Schematic drawing of the pcDNA2001/DHFRwt construct. 
   FIG. 3 : Schematic drawing of construct pcDNA2002/DHFRwt. 
   FIG. 4 : Schematic drawing of construct pcDNAs3000/DHFRwt. 
   FIG. 5 : Schematic drawing of the construct pEPO2000/DHFRwt. 
   FIG. 6 : Schematic drawing of the pAdApt.EPO construct. 
   FIG. 7 : Schematic drawing of the pHC2000/Hyg(−) construct. 
   FIG. 8 : Schematic drawing of the pLC2001/DHFRwt construct. 
   FIG. 9 : Schematic drawing of the pUBS-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) construct. 
   FIG. 10 : Schematic drawing of the pUBS-Light2001/DHFRwt construct. 
   FIG. 11 : Schematic drawing of the pUBS2-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) construct. 
   FIG. 12 : Schematic drawing of the pUBS2-Light2001/DHFRwt construct. 
   FIG. 13 : Schematic drawing of the pUBS-3000/DHFRwt construct. 
   FIG. 14 : Schematic drawing of the pUBS2-3000/DHFRwt construct. 
   FIG. 15  is a graph depicting the EPO concentration in a 2 liter perfusion bioreactor produced by a batch of P9 suspension cells. 
   FIG. 16  a graph depicting the EPO concentration in a 2 liter perfusion bioreactor produced by a repeated batch of P9 suspension cells. 
   FIG. 17  is a graph depicting the EPO concentration in a 1 liter bioreactor with different concentrations dissolved oxygen, temperatures and pH settings. 
   FIG. 18  is a graph depicting the EPO production in varying concentrations of MTX. 
   FIG. 19  is a Southern blot showing the endogenous and integrated DHFR bands in varying concentrations of MTX. 
   FIG. 20A  is a graph depicting the EPO production in P8 cells in the presence of MTX and without MTX. 
   FIG. 20B  is a graph depicting the EPO production in P9 cells in the presence of MTX and without MTX. 
   FIG. 21A  is a direct neuraminidase assay that was performed on recombinant EPO produced in PER.C6™ cells (human embryonic retinoblast cell line containing in its genome human adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) E1A and E1B coding sequences (nt. 459-3510) under the control of the human phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) promoter) after transfection with EPO expression vectors. 
   FIG. 21B  is a FACS analysis using FITC-labeled anti-DIG antibody directed to CHO cells and PER.C6™ cells. 
   FIG. 22A  is a Western blot directed to supernatants of P9 cells using anti-EPO antibody. 
   FIG. 22B  is a Western blot using anti-EPO antibody directed to supernatants of stable P9 cells and transient CHO cells. 
   FIG. 23  is graph showing the activity of two samples derived from PER.C6™/E2A cells that were transfected with an EPO expression vector. 
   FIG. 24  is a Western blot of transient UBS-54 expression in PER.C6™ cells using antibody directed to human(ized) IgG1 sub-units. 
 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 The art is unclear on what the border is between transformed and immortalized. Here, the difference is represented in that immortalized cells grow indefinitely, while the phenotype is still present, and transformed cells also grow indefinitely but also display usually a dramatic change in phenotype. 
 In order to achieve large-scale (continuous) production of recombinant proteins through cell culture, it is preferred in the art to have cells capable of growing without the necessity of anchorage. The cells of the present invention have that capability. The anchorage-independent growth capability is improved when the cells include a sequence encoding E2A or a functional derivative or analogue or fragment thereof in its genome, wherein preferably the E2A encoding sequence encodes a temperature sensitive mutant E2A, such as ts125. To have a clean, safe production system from which it is easy to isolate the desired recombinant protein, it is preferred to have a method according to the invention, wherein the human cell includes no other adenoviral sequences. The most preferred cell for the methods and uses of the invention is PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC No. 96022940 or a derivative thereof. (PER.C6™ cells deposited with the Centre for Applied Microbiology and Research Authority on Feb. 29, 1996, at the European Collection of Animal Cell Cultures, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4, OJG, United Kingdom., an International Depository Authority.) PER.C6™ cells behave better in handling than, for instance, transformed human 293 cells that have also been immortalized by the E1 region from adenovirus. PER.C6™ cells have been characterized and have been documented very extensively because they behave significantly better in the process of upscaling, suspension growth and growth factor independence. The fact that PER.C6™ cells can be brought in suspension in a highly reproducible manner is something that especially makes it very suitable for large-scale production. Furthermore, the PER.C6™ cell line has been characterized for bioreactor growth in which it grows to very high densities. 
 The cells according to the invention, in particular PER.C6™ cells, have the additional advantage that they can be cultured in the absence of animal- or human-derived serum or animal- or human-derived serum components. Thus isolation is easier, while the safety is enhanced due to the absence of additional human or animal proteins in the culture, and the system is very reliable (synthetic media are the best in reproducibility). Furthermore, the presence of the Early region 1A (“E1A”) of adenovirus adds another level of advantages as compared to (human) cell lines that lack this particular gene. E1A as a transcriptional activator is known to enhance transcription from the enhancer/promoter of the CMV Immediate Early genes (Olive et al., 1990; Gorman et al., 1989). When the recombinant protein to be produced is under the control of the CMV enhancer/promoter, expression levels increase in the cells and not in cells that lack E1A. The invention, therefore, further provides a method for enhancing production of a recombinant proteinaceous substance in a eukaryotic cell, including providing the eukaryotic cell with a nucleic acid encoding at least part of the proteinaceous substance, wherein the coding sequence is under control of a CMV-promoter, an E1A promoter or a functional homologue, derivative and/or fragment of either and further providing the cell with E1A activity or E1A-like activity. Like the CMV promoter, E1A promoters are more active in cells expressing one or more E1A products than in cells not expressing such products. It is known that indeed the E1A expression enhancement is a characteristic of several other promoters. For the present invention, such promoters are considered to be functional homologues of E1A promoters. The E1A effect can be mediated through the attraction of transcription activators, the E1A promoter or homologue thereof, and/or through the removal/avoiding attachment of transcriptional repressors to the promoter. The binding of activators and repressors to a promoter occurs in a sequence-dependent fashion. A functional derivative and or fragment of an E1A promoter or homologue thereof, therefore, at least includes the nucleic acid binding sequence of at least one E1A protein regulated activator and/or repressor. 
 Another advantage of cells of the invention is that they harbor and express constitutively the adenovirus E1B gene. Adenovirus E1B is a well-known inhibitor of programmed cell death, or apoptosis. This inhibition occurs either through the 55K E1B product by its binding to the transcription factor p53 or subsequent inhibition (Yew and Berk 1992). The other product of the E1B region, 19K E1B, can prevent apoptosis by binding and thereby inhibiting the cellular death proteins Bax and Bak, both proteins that are under the control of p53 (White et al., 1992; Debbas and White, 1993; Han et al., 1996; and Farrow et al., 1995). These features can be extremely useful for the expression of recombinant proteins that, when over-expressed, might be involved in the induction of apoptosis through a p53-dependent pathway. 
 The invention further provides the use of a human cell for the production of a human recombinant protein, the cell having a sequence encoding at least an immortalizing E1 protein of an adenovirus or a functional derivative, homologue or fragment thereof in its genome, which cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins. In another embodiment, the invention provides such a use wherein the human cell is derived from a primary cell, preferably wherein the human cell is a PER.C6™ cell or a derivative thereof. 
 The invention further provides a use according to the invention, wherein the cell further includes a sequence encoding E2A or a functional derivative or analogue or fragment thereof in its genome, preferably wherein the E2A is temperature sensitive. 
 The invention also provides a human recombinant protein obtainable by a method according to the invention or by a use according to the invention, the human recombinant protein having a human glycosylation pattern different from the isolated natural human counterpart protein. 
 In another embodiment, the invention provides a human cell having a sequence encoding E1 of an adenovirus or a functional derivative, homologue or fragment thereof in its genome, which cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins, and having a gene encoding a human recombinant protein, preferably a human cell which is derived from a PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC No. 96022940. 
 In yet another embodiment, the invention provides such a human cell, a PER.C6™/E2A cell, which further includes a sequence encoding E2A or a functional derivative or analogue or fragment thereof in its genome, preferably wherein the E2A is temperature sensitive. 
 The proteins to be expressed in these cells using the methods of the invention are well known to persons skilled in the art. They are preferably human proteins that undergo some kind of processing in nature, such as secretion, chaperoned folding and/or transport, co-synthesis with other subunits, glycosylation, or phosphorylation. Typical examples for therapeutic or diagnostic use include monoclonal antibodies that are comprised of several subunits, tissue-specific plasminogen activator (“tPA”), granulocyte colony stimulating factor (“G-CSF”) and human erythropoietin (“EPO” or “hEPO”). EPO is a typical product that, especially in vivo, heavily depends on its glycosylation pattern for its activity and immunogenicity. Thus far, relatively high levels of EPO have been reached by the use of CHO cells which are differently glycosylated in comparison to EPO purified from human urine, albeit equally active in the enhancement of erythrocyte production. The different glycosylation of such EPO, however, can lead to immunogenicity problems and altered half-life in a recipient. 
 The present invention also includes a novel human immortalized cell line for this purpose and the uses thereof for production. PER.C6™ cells (PCT International Patent Publication WO 97/00326 or U.S. Pat. No. 5,994,128) were generated by transfection of primary human embryonic retina cells using a plasmid that contained the adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) E1A- and E1B-coding sequences (Ad5 nucleotides 459-3510) (SEQ ID NO:33) under the control of the human phosphoglycerate kinase (“PGK”) promoter. 
 The following features make PER.C6™ cells particularly useful as a host for recombinant protein production: 1. fully characterized human cell line; 2. developed in compliance with GLP; 3. can be grown as suspension cultures in defined serum-free medium devoid of any human- or animal-derived proteins; 4. growth compatible with roller bottles, shaker flasks, spinner flasks and bioreactors with doubling times of about 35 hours; 5. presence of E1A causing an up-regulation of expression of genes that are under the control of the CMV enhancer/promoter; 6. presence of E1B which prevents p53-dependent apoptosis possibly enhanced through overexpression of the recombinant transgene. 
 In one embodiment, the invention provides a method wherein the cell is capable of producing 2 to 200-fold more recombinant protein and/or proteinaceous substance than conventional mammalian cell lines. Preferably, the conventional mammalian cell lines are selected from the group consisting of CHO, COS, Vero, Hela, BHK and Sp-2 cell lines. 
 In one aspect of the invention, the proteinaceous substance or protein is a monoclonal antibody. Antibodies, or immunoglobulins (“Igs”), are serum proteins that play a central role in the humoral immune response, binding antigens and inactivating them or triggering the inflammatory response which results in their elimination. Antibodies are capable of highly specific interactions with a wide variety of ligands, including tumor-associated markers, viral coat proteins, and lymphocyte cell surface glycoproteins. They are, therefore, potentially very useful agents for the diagnosis and treatment of human diseases. Recombinant monoclonal and single chain antibody technology is opening new perspectives for the development of novel therapeutic and diagnostic agents. Mouse monoclonal antibodies have been used as therapeutic agents in a wide variety of clinical trials to treat infectious diseases and cancer. The first report of a patient being treated with a murine monoclonal antibody was published in 1980 (Nadler et al. 1980). However, the effects observed with these agents have, in general, been quite disappointing (for reviews, see Lowder et al. 1985; Mellstedtet al. 1991; Baldwin and Byers 1985). Traditionally, recombinant monoclonal antibodies (immunoglobulins) are produced on B-cell hybridomas. Such hybridomas are produced by fusing an immunoglobulin-producing B-cell, initially selected for its specificity, to a mouse myeloma cell and thereby immortalizing the B-cell. The original strategy of immortalizing mouse B-cells was developed in 1975 (Köhler and Milstein). However, immunoglobulins produced in such hybridomas have the disadvantage that they are of mouse origin, resulting in poor antibody specificity, low antibody affinity and a severe host anti-mouse antibody response (HAMA, Shawler et al. 1985). This HAMA response may lead to inflammation, fever, and even death of the patient. 
 Mouse antibodies have a low affinity in humans and, for reasons yet unknown, have an extremely short half-life in human circulation (19-42 hours) as compared to human antibodies (21 days, Frödin et al., 1990). That, together with the severity of the HAMA response, has prompted the development of alternative strategies for generating more human or completely humanized immunoglobulins (reviewed by Owens and Young 1994; Sandhu 1992; Vaswani et al. 1998). 
 One such strategy makes use of the constant regions of the human immunoglobulin to replace its murine counterparts, resulting in a new generation of “chimeric” and “humanized” antibodies. This approach is taken since the HAMA response is mainly due to the constant domains (Oi et al., 1983; Morrison et al., 1984). An example of such a chimeric antibody is CAMPATH-1H (Reichmann et al. 1988). The CAMPATH-1H Ab, used in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma and refractory rheumatoid arthritis, is directed against the human antigen CAMPATH-1 (CDw52) present on all lymphoid cells and monocytes but not on other cell types (Hale et al. 1988; Isaacs et al. 1992). Other examples are Rituxan (Rituximab) directed against human CD20 (Reff et al. 1994) and 15C5, a chimeric antibody raised against human fragment-D dimer (Vandamme et al. 1990; Bulens et al. 1991) used in imaging o blood ciotuing. However, since these new generation chimeric antibodies are still partly murine, they can induce an immune response in humans, albeit not as severe as the HAMA response against fully murine antibodies of mouse origin. 
 In another, more sophisticated approach, ranges of residues present in the variable domains of the antibody, but apparently not essential for antigen recognition, are replaced by more human-like stretches of amino acids, resulting in a second generation or hyperchimeric antibodies (Vaswani et al. 1998). A well-known example of this approach is Herceptin (Carter et al. 1992), an antibody that is 95% human, which is directed against HER2 (a tumor-specific antigen) and used in breast tumor patients. 
 A more preferred manner to replace mouse recombinant immunoglobulins would be one resulting in the generation of human immunoglobulins. Importantly, since it is unethical to immunize humans with experimental biological materials, it is not feasible to subsequently select specific B-cells for immortalization as was shown for mouse B-cells (Köhler and Milstein 1975). Although B-cells from patients were selected for specific antibodies against cancer antigens, it is technically more difficult to prepare human immunoglobulins from human material as compared to mouse antibodies (Köhler and Milstein, 1975). A recombinant approach to produce fully human antibodies became feasible with the use of phage displayed antibody libraries, expressing variable domains of human origin (McCafferty et al. 1990; Clarkson et al. 1991; Barbas et al. 1991; Garrardet al. 1991; Winter et al. 1994; Burton and Barbas, 1994). These variable regions are selected for their specific affinity for certain antigens and are subsequently linked to the constant domains of human immunoglobulins, resulting in human recombinant immunoglobulins. An example of this latter approach is the single chain Fv antibody 17-1A (Riethmuller et al. 1994) that was converted into an intact human IgG1 kappa immunoglobulin named UBS-54, directed against the tumor-associated EpCAM molecule (Huls et al. 1999). 
 The production systems to generate recombinant immunoglobulins are diverse. The mouse immunoglobulins first used in clinical trials were produced in large quantities in their parental-specific B-cell and fused to a mouse myeloma cell for immortalization. A disadvantage of this system is that the immunoglobulins produced are entirely of mouse origin and render a dramatic immune response (HAMA response) in the human patient (as previously described herein). 
 Partially humanized or human antibodies lack a parental B-cell that can be immortalized and, therefore, have to be produced in other systems like CHO cells or Baby Hamster Kidney (BHK) cells. It is also possible to use cells that are normally suited for immunoglobulin production like tumor-derived human or mouse myeloma cells. However, antibody yields obtained in myeloma cells are, in general, relatively low (±0.1 μg/ml) when compared to those obtained in the originally identified and immortalized B-cells that produce fully murine immunoglobulins (±10 μg/ml, Sandhu 1992). 
 To circumvent these and other shortcomings, different systems are being developed to produce humanized or human immunoglobulins with higher yields. 
 For example, it was recently shown that transgenic mouse strains can be produced that have the mouse IgG genes replaced with their human counterparts (Bruggeman et al., 1991; Lonberg et al., 1994; Lonberg and Huszar, 1995; Jacobovits, 1995). Yeast artificial chromosomes (“YACs”) containing large fragments of the human heavy and light (kappa) chain immunoglobulin (Ig) loci were introduced into Ig-inactivated mice, resulting in human antibody production which closely resembled that seen in humans, including gene rearrangement, assembly, and repertoire (Mendez et al. 1997; Green et al. 1994). Likewise, Fishwild et al. (1996) have constructed human Ig-transgenics in order to obtain human immunoglobulins using subsequent conventional hybridoma technology. The hybridoma cells secreted human immunoglobulins with properties similar to those of wild-type mice including stability, growth, and secretion levels. Recombinant antibodies produced from such transgenic mice strains carry no non-human amino acid sequences. 
 Nevertheless, human immunoglobulins produced thus far have the disadvantage of being produced in non-human cells, resulting in non-human post-translational modifications like glycosylation and/or folding of the subunits. All antibodies are glycosylated at conserved positions in their constant regions, and the presence of carbohydrates can be critical for antigen clearance functions such as complement activation. The structure of the attached carbohydrate can also affect antibody activity. Antibody glycosylation can be influenced by the cell in which it is produced, the conformation of the antibody and cell culture conditions. For instance, antibodies produced in mouse cells carry glycans containing the Gal alpha1-3Gal residue, which is absent in proteins produced in human cells (Borrebaeck et al. 1993; Borrebaeck, 1999). A very high titer of anti-Gal alpha1-3Gal antibodies is present in humans (100 μg/ml, Galili, 1993), causing a rapid clearance of (murine) proteins carrying this residue in their glycans. 
 It soon became apparent that, in order to exert an effect, patients need to be treated with very high doses of recombinant immunoglobulins for prolonged periods of time. It seems likely that post-translational modifications on human or humanized immunoglobulins that are not produced on human cells strongly affect the clearance rate of these antibodies from the bloodstream. 
 It is unclear why immunoglobulins produced on CHO cells also need to be applied in very high dosages, since the Gal alpha1-3Gal residue is not present in glycans on proteins derived from this cell line (Rother and Squinto, 1996). Therefore, other post-translational modifications besides the Gal alpha1-3Gal residues are likely to be involved in specific immune responses in humans against fully human or humanized immunoglobulins produced on such CHO cells. 
 The art thus teaches that it is possible to produce humanized antibodies without murine-derived protein sequences. However, the current generation of recombinant immunoglobulins still differs from its natural human counterparts, for example, by post-translational modifications such as glycosylation and folding. This may result in activation of the immune system of the patient and cause undesirable responses that may affect the efficacy of the treatment. Thus, despite the development of chimeric antibodies, the current production systems still need optimization to produce fully human or humanized active antibodies. 
 It is thus clearly desirable to have methods for producing fully human antibodies which behave accordingly, and which are, in addition, produced at higher yields than observed in human myeloma cells. 
 Thus, it would be an improvement in the art to provide a human cell that produces consistent human-type protein processing like post-translational and peri-translational modifications, such as, but not limited to glycosylation. It would be further advantageous to provide a method for producing a recombinant mammalian cell and immunoglobulins from recombinant mammalian cells in large-scale production. 
 The present invention, therefore, further provides a method for producing at least one variable domain of an immunoglobulin in a recombinant mammalian cell, including providing a mammalian cell including a nucleic acid encoding at least an immortalizing E1 protein of an adenovirus or a functional derivative, homologue and/or fragment thereof in its genome, and further including a second nucleic acid encoding the immunoglobulin, culturing the cell in a suitable medium and harvesting at least one monoclonal antibody from the cell and/or the medium. 
 Previously, few, if any, human cells suitable for producing immunoglobulins in any reproducible and upscaleable manner have been found. The cells of the present invention include at least an immortalizing adenoviral E1 protein and are capable of growing relatively independent of exogenous growth factors. 
 Furthermore, these cells are capable of producing immunoglobulins in significant amounts and are capable of correctly processing the generated immunoglobulins. 
 The fact that cell types that have been used for immunoglobulin production are tumor-derived adds an extra risk to working with these particular cell lines and results in very stringent isolation procedures for the immunoglobulins in order to avoid transforming activity or tumorigenic material in any preparations. It is, therefore, preferred to employ a method according to the invention, wherein the cell is derived from a primary cell. In order to be able to grow indefinitely, a primary cell needs to be immortalized, which in the present invention has been achieved by the introduction of an adenoviral E1 protein. 
 In order to achieve large-scale (continuous) production of immunoglobulins through cell culture, it is preferred to have cells capable of growing without the necessity of anchorage. The cells of the present invention have that capability. The anchorage-independent growth capability is improved when the cells include an adenovirus-derived sequence encoding E2A (or a functional derivative or analogue or fragment thereof) in its genome. In a preferred embodiment, the E2A encoding sequence encodes a temperature sensitive mutant E2A, such as ts125. The cell may, in addition, include a nucleic acid (e.g., encoding tTa), which allows for regulated expression of a gene of interest when placed under the control of a promoter (e.g., a TetO promoter). 
 The nucleic acid may encode a heavy chain, a variable heavy chain, a light chain, and/or a variable light chain of an immunoglobulin. Alternatively, a separate or distinct nucleic acid may encode one or more variable domain(s) of an Ig (or a functional derivative, homologue and/or fragment thereof) as a counterpart to the first nucleic acid (described above). One or more nucleic acid(s) described herein may encode an ScFv and may be human or humanized. The nucleic acid(s) of the present invention are preferably placed under the control of an inducible promoter (or a functional derivative thereof). 
 To have a clean and safe production system from which it is easy to isolate the desired immunoglobulins, it is preferred to have a method according to the invention, wherein the human cell includes no other adenoviral sequences. The most preferred cell for the methods and uses of the invention is a PER.C6™ cell or a derivative thereof as deposited under ECACC No. 96022940. PER.C6™ cells have been found to be more stable, particularly in handling, than, for instance, transformed human 293 cells immortalized by the adenoviral E1 region. PER.C6™ cells have been extensively characterized and documented, demonstrating good process of upscaling, suspension growth and growth factor independence. Furthermore, PER.C6™ cells can be incorporated into a suspension in a highly reproducible manner, making it particularly suitable for large-scale production. In this regard, the PER.C6™ cell line has been characterized for bioreactor growth, where it can grow to very high densities. 
 The cells of the present invention, in particular PER.C6™ cells, can advantageously be cultured in the absence of animal- or human-derived serum, or animal- or human-derived serum components. Thus, isolation of monoclonal antibodies is simplified and safety is enhanced due to the absence of additional human or animal proteins in the culture. The absence of serum further increases reliability of the system since use of synthetic media, as contemplated herein, enhances reproducibility. 
 The invention further provides the use of a recombinant mammalian cell for the production of at least one variable domain of an immunoglobulin, the cell having a sequence encoding at least an immortalizing E1 protein of an adenovirus or a functional derivative, homologue or fragment thereof in its genome, which cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins. In another embodiment, the invention provides such a use wherein the cell is derived from a primary cell, preferably wherein the human cell is a PER.C6™ cell or a derivative thereof. 
 The invention further provides a use according to the invention, wherein the cell further includes a sequence encoding E2A (or a functional derivative or analogue or fragment thereof) in its genome, preferably wherein the E2A is temperature sensitive. In addition, the invention provides a method of using the invention, wherein the cell further includes a trans-activating protein for the induction of the inducible promoter. The invention also provides immunoglobulins obtainable by a method according to the invention or by a use according to the invention. 
 In another embodiment, the invention provides a human cell having a sequence encoding E1 of an adenovirus (or a functional derivative, homologue or fragment thereof) in its genome, which cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins, and having a gene encoding a human recombinant protein, preferably a human cell which is derived from PER.C6™ cells as deposited under ECACC No. 96022940. 
 In yet another embodiment, the invention provides such a human cell, a PER.C6™/E2A cell, which further includes a sequence encoding E2A (or a functional derivative, analogue or fragment thereof) in its genome, preferably wherein the E2A is temperature sensitive. 
 Immunoglobulins to be expressed in the cells of the present invention are known to persons skilled in the art. Examples of recombinant immunoglobulins include, but are not limited to, Herceptin, Rituxan (Rituximab), UBS-54, CAMPATH-1H and 15C5. 
 The present invention further provides methods for producing at least one variable domain of an immunoglobulin in a recombinant mammalian cell utilizing the immortalized recombinant mammalian cell of the invention, culturing the same in a suitable medium, and harvesting at least one variable domain of a selected Ig from the recombinant mammalian cell and/or medium. Immunoglobulins, variable domains of the immunoglobulins, or derivatives thereof may be used for the therapeutic treatment of mammals or the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. 
 In another aspect, the invention provides a method for producing a viral protein other than adenovirus or adenoviral protein for use as a vaccine including providing a cell with at least a sequence encoding at least one gene product of the E1 gene or a functional derivative thereof of an adenovirus, providing the cell with a nucleic acid encoding the viral protein, culturing the cell in a suitable medium allowing for expression of the viral protein and harvesting viral protein from the medium and/or the cell. Until the present invention, there are few, if any (human), cells that have been found suitable to produce viral proteins for use as vaccines in any reproducible and upscaleable manner and/or sufficiently high yields and/or easily purifiable. We have now found that cells which include adenoviral E1 sequences, preferably in their genome, are capable of producing the viral protein in significant amounts. 
 The preferred cell according to the invention is derived from a human primary cell, preferably a cell which is immortalized by a gene product of the E1 gene. In order to be able to grow, a primary cell, of course, needs to be immortalized. A good example of such a cell is one derived from a human embryonic retinoblast. 
 In cells according to the invention, it is important that the E1 gene sequences are not lost during the cell cycle. It is, therefore, preferred that the sequence encoding at least one gene product of the E1 gene is present in the genome of the (human) cell. For reasons of safety, care is best taken to avoid unnecessary adenoviral sequences in the cells according to the invention. It is thus another embodiment of the invention to provide cells that do not produce adenoviral structural proteins. However, in order to achieve large-scale (continuous) virus protein production through cell culture, it is preferred to have cells capable of growing without needing anchorage. The cells of the present invention have that capability. To have a clean and safe production system from which it is easy to recover and, if desirable, to purify the virus protein, it is preferred to have a method according to the invention, wherein the human cell includes no other adenoviral sequences. The most preferred cell for the methods and uses of the invention is a PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC No. 96022940, or a derivative thereof. 
 Thus, the invention provides a method using a cell according to the invention, wherein the cell further includes a sequence encoding E2A or a functional derivative or analogue or fragment thereof, preferably a cell wherein the sequence encoding E2A or a functional derivative or analogue or fragment thereof is present in the genome of the human cell, and most preferably a cell wherein the E2A encoding sequence encodes a temperature sensitive mutant E2A. 
 Furthermore, as stated, the invention also provides a method according to the invention wherein the (human) cell is capable of growing in suspension. 
 The invention also includes a method wherein the human cell can be cultured in the absence of serum. The cells according to the invention, in particular PER.C6™ cells, have the additional advantage that it can be cultured in the absence of serum or serum components. Thus, isolation is easy, safety is enhanced and reliability of the system is good (synthetic media are the best in reproducibility). The human cells of the invention, and in particular those based on primary cells and particularly the ones based on HER cells, are capable of normal post and peri-translational modifications and assembly. This means that they are very suitable for preparing viral proteins for use in vaccines. 
 Thus, the invention also includes a method wherein the viral protein includes a protein that undergoes post-translational and/or peri-translational modification, especially wherein the modifications include glycosylation. A good example of a viral vaccine that has been cumbersome to produce in any reliable manner is influenza vaccine. The invention provides a method according to the invention wherein the viral proteins include at least one of an influenza virus neuramidase and/or a hemagglutinin. Other viral proteins (subunits) that can be produced in the methods according to the invention include proteins from enterovirus, such as rhinovirus, aphtovirus, or poliomyelitisvirus, herpesvirus, such as herpes simplex virus, pseudorabies virus or bovine herpes virus, orthomyxovirus, such as influenza virus, a paramyxovirus, such as newcastle disease virus, respiratory syncitio virus, mumps virus or a measles virus, retrovirus, such as human immunedeficiency virus or a parvovirus or a papovavirus, rotavirus or a coronavirus, such as transmissible gastroenteritisvirus or a flavivirus, such as tick-borne encephalitis virus or yellow fever virus, a togavirus, such as rubella virus or eastern-, western-, or venezuelean equine encephalomyelitis virus, a hepatitis causing virus, such as hepatitis A or hepatitis B virus, a pestivirus, such as hog cholera virus or a rhabdovirus, such as rabies virus. 
 The invention also provides the use of a human cell having a sequence encoding at least one E1 protein of an adenovirus or a functional derivative, homologue or fragment thereof in its genome, which cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins for the production of at least one viral protein for use in a vaccine. Of course, for such a use, the cells preferred in the methods according to the invention are also preferred. The invention also provides the products resulting from the methods and uses according to the invention, especially viral proteins obtainable according to those uses and/or methods, especially when brought in a pharmaceutical composition including suitable excipients and in some formats (subunits) adjuvants. Dosage and ways of administration can be sorted out through normal clinical testing if they are not yet available through the already registered vaccines. 
 Thus, the invention also provides a viral protein for use in a vaccine obtainable by a method or by a use according to the invention, the viral protein being free of any non-human mammalian proteinaceous material and a pharmaceutical formulation including such a viral protein. 
 In a preferred embodiment, the invention provides influenza vaccines obtainable by a method according to the invention or by a use according to the invention. 
 In another aspect, the invention provides the use of an adenoviral E1B protein or a functional derivative, homologue and/or fragment thereof having anti-apoptotic activity for enhancing the production of a proteinaceous substance in a eukaryotic cell, the use including providing the eukaryotic cell with the E1B protein, derivative, homologue and/or fragment thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the use includes a cell of the invention. In another preferred embodiment, the invention provides the use in a method and/or a use of the invention. 
 EXAMPLES 
 To illustrate the invention, the following examples are provided, not intended to limit the scope of the invention. The human erythropoietin (EPO) molecule contains four carbohydrate chains. Three contain N-linkages to asparagines, and one contains an O-linkage to a serine residue. The importance of glycosylation in the biological activity of EPO has been well documented (Delorme et al. 1992; Yamaguchi et al. 1991). The cDNA encoding human EPO was cloned and expressed in PER.C6™ cells and PER.C6™/E2A cells, expression was shown, and the glycosylation pattern was analyzed. 
 Example 1 
 Construction of Basic Expression Vectors 
 Plasmid pcDNA3.1/Hygro(−) (Invitrogen) was digested with NruI and EcoRV, dephosphorylated at the 5′ termini by Shrimp Alkaline Phosphatase (SAP, GIBCO Life Tech.) and the plasmid fragment lacking the immediate early enhancer and promoter from CMV was purified from gel. Plasmid pAdApt™ (IntroGene, BV of Leiden, NL), containing the full length CMV enhancer/promoter (−735 to +95) next to overlapping Adeno-derived sequences to produce recombinant adenovirus, was digested with AvrII, filled in with Klenow polymerase and digested with HpaI; the fragment containing the CMV enhancer and promoter was purified over agarose gel. This CMV enhancer and promoter fragment was ligated blunt/blunt to the NruI/EcoRV fragment from pcDNA3.1/Hygro(−). The resulting plasmid was designated pcDNA2000/Hyg(−). 
 Plasmid pcDNA2000/Hyg(−) was digested with PmlI, and the linearized plasmid lacking the Hygromycin resistance marker gene was purified from gel and religated. The resulting plasmid was designated pcDNA2000. Plasmid pcDNA2000 was digested with PmlI and dephosphorylated by SAP at both termini. Plasmid pIG-GC9 containing the wild type human DHFR cDNA (Havenga et al. 1998) was used to obtain the wild type DHFR-gene by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with introduced, noncoding PmlI sites upstream and down stream of the cDNA. PCR primers that were used were DHFR up: 5′-GAT CCA CGT GAG ATC TCC ACC ATG GTT GGT TCG CTA AAC TG-3′ (SEQ ID NO:1 of the accompanying and incorporated Sequence Listing) and DHFR down: 5′-GAT CCA CGT GAG ATC TTT AAT CAT TCT TCT CAT ATAC-3′ (SEQ ID NO:2). The PCR-product was digested with PmlI and used for ligation into pcDNA2000 (digested with PmlI, and dephosphorylated by SAP) to obtain pcDNA2000/DHFRwt ( FIG. 1 ). Wild type sequences and correctly used cloning sites were confirmed by double stranded sequencing. Moreover, a mutant version of the human DHFR gene (DHFRm) was used to reach a 10,000 fold higher resistance to methotrexate in PER.C6™ cells and PER.C6™/E2A cells by selection of a possible integration of the transgene in a genomic region with high transcriptional activity. This mutant carries an amino acid substitution in position 32 (phenylalanine to serine) and position 159 (leucine to proline) introduced by the PCR procedure. PCR on plasmid pIG-GC12 (Havenga et al. 1998) was used to obtain the mutant version of human DHFR. Cloning of this mutant is comparable to wild type DHFR. The plasmid obtained with mutant DHFR was designated pcDNA2000/DHFRm. 
 pIPspAdapt 6 (Galapagos) was digested with AgeI and BamHI restriction enzymes. The resulting polylinker fragment has the following sequence: 5′- ACC   GGT  GAA TTC GGC GCG CCG TCG ACG ATA TCG ATC GGA CCG ACG CGT TCG CGA GCG GCC GCA ATT CGC TAG CGT TAA C GG   ATC  C-3′ (SEQ ID NO:3). The used Agel and BamHI recognition sites are underlined. This fragment contains several unique restriction enzyme recognition sites and was purified over agarose gel and ligated to an AgeI/BamHI digested and agarose gel purified pcDNA2000/DHFRwt plasmid. The resulting vector was named pcDNA2001/DHFRwt ( FIG. 2 ). 
 pIPspAdapt7 (Galapagos of Belgium) is digested with AgeI and BamHI restriction enzymes and has the following sequence: 5′- ACC   GGT  GAA TTG CGG CCG CTC GCG AAC GCG TCG GTC CGT ATC GAT ATC GTC GAC GGC GCG CCG AAT TCG CTA GCG TTA AC G   GAT   CC -3′(SEQ. ID NO:4). Thc used AgeI and BamHI recognition sites are underlined. The polylinker fragment contains several unique restriction enzyme recognition sites (different from pIPspAdapt6), which are purified over agarose gel and ligated to an AgeI/BamHI digested and agarose gel purified pcDNA2000/DHFRwt. This results in pcDNA2002/DHFRwt ( FIG. 3 ). 
 pcDNA2000/DHFRwt was partially digested with restriction enzyme PvuII. There are two PvuII sites present in this plasmid and cloning was performed into the site between the SV40 poly(A) and ColE1, not the PvuII site down stream of the BGH poly(A). A single site digested mixture of plasmid was dephosphorylated with SAP and blunted with Klenow enzyme and purified over agarose gel. pcDNA2001/DHFRwt was digested with MunI and PvuII restriction enzymes and filled in with Klenow and free nucleotides to have both ends blunted. The resulting CMV promoter-linker-BGH poly(A)-containing fragment was isolated over gel and separated from the vector. This fragment was ligated into the partially digested and dephosphorylated vector and checked for orientation and insertion site. The resulting plasmid was named pcDNAs3000/DHFRwt ( FIG. 4 ). 
 Example 2 
 Construction of EPO Expression Vectors 
 The full length human EPO cDNA was cloned, employing oligonucleotide primers EPO-START: 5′ AAA AAG GAT CCG CCA CCA TGG GGG TGC ACG AAT GTC CTG CCT G-3′ (SEQ ID NO:5) and EPO-STOP: 5′AAA AAG GAT CCT CAT CTG TCC CCT GTC CTG CAG GCC TC-3′ (SEQ ID NO:6) (Cambridge Bioscience Ltd) in a PCR on a human adult liver cDNA library. The amplified fragment was cloned into pUC18 linearized with BamHI. Sequence was checked by double stranded sequencing. This plasmid containing the EPO cDNA in pUC18 was digested with BamHI and the EPO insert was purified from agarose gel. Plasmids pcDNA2000/DHFRwt and pcDNA2000/DHFRm were linearized with BamHI and dephosphorylated at the 5′ overhang by SAP, and the plasmids were purified from agarose gel. The EPO cDNA fragment was ligated into the BamHI sites of pcDNA2000/DHFRwt and pcDNA2000/DHFRm; the resulting plasmids were designated pEPO2000/DHFRwt ( FIG. 5 ) and pEPO2000/DHFRm. 
 The plasmid pMLPI.TK (described in International Patent Application No. WO 97/00326) is an example of an adapter plasmid designed for use in combination with improved packaging cell lines like PER.C6™ cells (described in International Patent Application No. WO 97/00326 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08/892,873). First, a PCR fragment was generated from pZipDMo+PyF101(N−) template DNA (described in International Patent Publication No. PCT/NL96/00195) with the following primers: LTR-1 (5′-CTG TAC GTA CCA GTG CAC TGG CCT AGG CAT GGA AAA ATA CAT AAC TG-3′ (SEQ ID NO:7)) and LTR-2 (5′-GCG GAT CCT TCG AAC CAT GGT AAG CTT GGT ACC GCT AGC GTT AAC CGG GCG ACT CAG TCA ATC G-3′ (SEQ ID NO:8)). The PCR product was then digested with BamHI and ligated into pMLP10 (Levrero et al. 1991), that was digested with PvuII and BamHI, thereby generating vector pLTR10. This vector contains adenoviral sequences from  bp  1 up to bp 454 followed by a promoter consisting of a part of the Mo-MuLV LTR having its wild-type enhancer sequences replaced by the enhancer from a mutant polyoma virus (PyF101). The promoter fragment was designated L420. Next, the coding region of the murine HSA gene was inserted. pLTR10 was digested with BstBI followed by Klenow treatment and digestion with NcoI. The HSA gene was obtained by PCR amplification on pUC18-HSA (Kay et al. 1990, using the following primers: HSA1 (5′-GCG CCA CCA TGG GCA GAG CGA TGG TGG C-3′ (SEQ ID NO:9)) and HSA2 (5′-GTT AGA TCT AAG CTT GTC GAC ATC GAT CTA CTA ACA GTA GAG ATG TAG AA-3′ (SEQ ID NO:10)). The 269 bp PCR fragment was subcloned in a shuttle vector using NcoI and BglII sites. Sequencing confirmed incorporation of the correct coding sequence of the HSA gene, but with an extra TAG insertion directly following the TAG stop codon. The coding region of the HSA gene, including the TAG duplication, was then excised as a NcoI/SalI fragment and cloned into a 3.5 kb NcoI/BstBI cut pLTR10, resulting in pLTR-HSA10. This plasmid was digested with EcoRI and BamHI, after which the fragment, containing the left ITR, the packaging signal, the L420 promoter and the HSA gene, was inserted into vector pMLPI.TK digested with the same enzymes and thereby replacing the promoter and gene sequences, resulting in the new adapter plasmid pAd5/L420-HSA. 
 The pAd5/L420-HSA plasmid was digested with AvrII and BglII followed by treatment with Klenow and ligated to a blunt 1570 bp fragment from pcDNA1/amp (Invitrogen) obtained by digestion with HhaI and AvrII followed by treatment with T4 DNA polymerase. This adapter plasmid was named pAd5/CLIP. 
 To enable removal of vector sequences from the left ITR, pAd5/L420-HSA was partially digested with EcoRI and the linear fragment was isolated. An oligo of the  sequence  5′ TTA AGT CGA C-3′ (SEQ ID NO:11) was annealed to itself, resulting in a linker with a SalI site and EcoRI overhang. The linker was ligated to the partially digested pAd5/L420-HSA vector and clones were selected that had the linker inserted in the  EcoRI site  23 bp upstream of the left adenovirus ITR in pAd5/L420-HSA, resulting in pAd5/L420-HSA.sal. 
 To enable removal of vector sequences from the left ITR, pAd5/CLIP was also partially digested with EcoRI and the linear fragment was isolated. The  EcoRI linker  5′ TTA AGT CGA C-3′ (SEQ ID NO:12) was ligated to the partially digested pAd5/CLIP vector and clones were selected that had the linker inserted in the  EcoRI site  23 bp upstream of the left adenovirus ITR, resulting in pAd5/CLIP.sal. The vector pAd5/L420-HSA was also modified to create a PacI site upstream of the left ITR. Hereto, pAd5/L420-HSA was digested with EcoRI and ligated to a PacI linker (5′-AAT TGT C TT   AAT   TAA  CCG CTT AA-3′ (SEQ ID NO:13)). The ligation mixture was digested with PacI and religated after isolation of the linear DNA from agarose gel to remove concatamerized linkers. This resulted in adapter plasmid pAd5/L420-HSA.pac. 
 This plasmid was digested with AvrII and BglII. The vector fragment was ligated to a linker oligonucleotide digested with the same restriction enzymes. The linker was made by annealing oligos of the following sequence: PLL-1 (5′-GCC ATC CCT AGG AAG CTT GGT ACC GGT GAA TTC GCT AGC GTT AAC GGA TCC TCT AGA CGA GAT CTG G-3′ (SEQ ID NO:14)) and PLL-2 (5′-CCA GAT CTC GTC TAG AGG ATC CGT TAA CGC TAG CGA ATT CAC CGG TAC CAA GCT TCC TAG GGA TGG C-3′ (SEQ ID NO:15)). The annealed linkers were separately ligated to the AvrII/BglII digested pAd5/L420-HSA.pac fragment, resulting in pAdMire.pac. Subsequently, a 0.7 kb ScaI/BsrGI fragment from pAd5/CLIP.sal containing the sal linker was cloned into the ScaI/BsrGI sites of the pAdMire.pac plasmid after removal of the fragment containing the pac linker. This resulting plasmid was named pAdMire.sal. 
 Plasmid pAd5/L420-HSA.pac was digested with AvrII and 5′ protruding ends were filled in using Klenow enzyme. A second digestion with HindIII resulted in removal of the L420 promoter sequences. The vector fragment was isolated and ligated separately to a PCR fragment containing the CMV promoter sequence. This PCR fragment was obtained after amplification of CMV sequences from pCMVLacI (Stratagene) with the following primers: CMVplus (5′-GAT CGG TAC CAC TGC AGT GGT CAA TAT TGG CCA TTA GCC-3′ (SEQ ID NO:16)) and CMVminA (5′-GAT CAA GCT TCC AAT GCA CCG TTC CCG GC-3′ (SEQ ID NO:17)). The PCR fragment was first digested with PstI after which the 3′-protruding ends were removed by treatment with T4 DNA polymerase. Then the DNA was digested with HindIII and ligated into the AvrII/HindIII digested pAd5/L420-HSA.pac vector. The resulting plasmid was named pAd5/CMV-HSA.pac. This plasmid was then digested with HindIII and BamHI and the vector fragment was isolated and ligated to the HindIII/BglII polylinker sequence obtained after digestion of pAdMire.pac. The resulting plasmid was named pAdApt.pac and contains nucleotides −735 to +95 of the human CMV promoter/enhancer (Boshart M. et al., 1985). 
 The full length human EPO cDNA (Genbank accession number: M11319) containing a perfect Kozak sequence for proper translation was removed from the pUC18 backbone after a BamHI digestion. The cDNA insert was purified over agarose gel and ligated into pAdApt.pac, which was also digested with BamHI, subsequently dephosphorylated at the 5′ and 3′ insertion sites using SAP and also purified over agarose gel to remove the short BamHI-BamHI linker sequence. The obtained circular plasmid was checked with KpnI, DdeI and NcoI restriction digestions that all gave the right size bands. Furthermore, the orientation and sequence was confirmed by double stranded sequencing. The obtained plasmid with the human EPO cDNA in the correct orientation was named pAdApt.EPO ( FIG. 6 ). 
 Example 3 
 Construction of UBS-54 Expression Vectors 
 The constant domains (CH1, -2 and -3) of the heavy chain of the human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) gene including intron sequences and connecting (“Hinge”) domain were generated by PCR using an upstream and a down stream primer. The sequence of the upstream primer (CAMH-UP) is 5′GAT C GA   TAT   CGC   TAG   C AC CAA GGG CCC ATC GGT C-3′ (SEQ ID NO:18), in which the annealing nucleotides are depicted in italics and two sequential restriction enzyme recognition sites (EcoRV and NheI) are underlined. 
 The sequence of the down stream primer (CAML-DOWN) is: 5′-GATC  GT   TTA   AAC  TCA TTT ACC CGG AGA CAG-3′ (SEQ ID NO:19), in which the annealing nucleotides are depicted in italics and the introduced PmeI restriction enzyme recognition site is underlined. 
 The order in which the domains of the human IgG1 heavy chain were arranged are as follows: CH1-intron-Hinge-intron-CH2-intron-CH3. The PCR was performed on a plasmid (pCMgamma NEO Skappa Vgamma Cgamma hu) containing the heavy chain of a humanized antibody directed against D-dimer from human fibrinogen (Vandamme et al. 1990). This antibody was designated “15C5” and the humanization was performed with the introduction of the human constant domains including intron sequences (Bulens et al. 1991). The PCR resulted in a product of 1621 nucleotides. The NheI and PmeI sites were introduced for easy cloning into the pcDNA2000/Hyg(−) polylinker. The NheI site encoded two amino acids (Ala and Ser) that are part of the constant region CH1, but that did not hybridize to the DNA present in the template (Crowe et al. 1992). 
 The PCR product was digested with NheI and PmeI restriction enzymes, purified over agarose gel and ligated into a NheI and PmeI digested and agarose gel purified pcDNA2000/Hygro(−). This resulted in plasmid pHC2000/Hyg(−) ( FIG. 7 ), which can be used for linking the human heavy chain constant domains, including introns to any possible variable region of any identified immunoglobulin heavy chain for humanization. 
 The constant domain of the light chain of the human immunoglobulin (IgG1) gene was generated by PCR using an upstream and a down stream primer: The sequence of the upstream primer (CAML-UP) is 5′-GAT C CG   TAC   G GT GGC TGC ACC ATC TGT C-3′ (SEQ ID NO:20), in which the annealing nucleotides are depicted in italics and an introduced SunI restriction enzyme recognition site is underlined. 
 The sequence of the down stream primer (CAML-DOWN) is 5′-GAT C GT   TTA   AAC  CTA ACA CTC TCC CCT GTT G-3′ (SEQ ID NO:21), in which the annealing nucleotides are in italics and an introduced PmeI restriction enzyme recognition site is underlined. 
 The PCR was performed on a plasmid (pCMkappa DHFR13 15C5 kappa humanized) carrying the murine signal sequence and murine variable region of the light chain of 15C5 linked to the constant domain of the human IgG1 light chain (Vandamme et al. 1990; Bulens et al. 1991). 
 The PCR resulted in a product of 340 nucleotides. The SunI and PmeI sites were introduced for cloning into the pcDNA2001/DHFRwt polylinker. The SunI site encoded two amino acids (Arg and Thr) of which the threonine residue is part of the constant region of human immunoglobulin light chains, while the arginine residue is part of the variable region of CAMPATH-1H (Crowe et al. 1992). This enabled subsequent 3′ cloning into the SunI site, which was unique in the plasmid. 
 The PCR product was digested with SunI and PmeI restriction enzymes purified over agarose gel, ligated into a BamHI, PmeI digested, and agarose gel purified pcDNA2001/DHFRwt, which was blunted by Klenow enzyme and free nucleotides. Ligation in the correct orientation resulted in loss of the BamHI site at the 5′ end and preservation of the SunI and PmeI sites. The resulting plasmid was named pLC2001/DHFRwt ( FIG. 8 ), which plasmid can be used for linking the human light chain constant domain to any possible variable region of any identified immunoglobulin light chain for humanization. 
 pNUT-C gamma (Huls et al., 1999) contains the constant domains, introns and hinge region of the human IgGI heavy chain (Huls et al. 1999) and received the variable domain upstream of the first constant domain. The variable domain of the gamma chain of fully humanized monoclonal antibody UBS-54 is preceded by the following leader peptide sequence: MACPGFLWALVISTCLEFSM (SEQ ID NO:22) (sequence: 5′-ATG GCA TGC CCT GGC TTC CTG TGG GCA CTT GTG ATC TCC ACC TGT CTT GAA TTT TCC ATG -3′) (SEQ ID NO:23). This resulted in an insert of approximately 2 kb in length. The entire gamma chain was amplified by PCR using an upstream primer (UBS-UP) and the down stream primer CAMH-DOWN. The sequence of UBS-UP is as follows: 5′-GAT C AC   GCG   TGC   TAG   C CA CCA TGG CAT GCC CTG GCT TC-3′ (SEQ ID NO:24) in which the introduced MluI and NheI sites are underlined and the perfect Kozak sequence is italicized. 
 The resulting PCR product was digested with NheI and PmeI restriction enzymes, purified over agarose gel and ligated to the pcDNA2000/Hygro(−) plasmid that is also digested with NheI and PmeI, dephosphorylated with tSAP and purified over gel. The resulting plasmid was named pUBS-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) ( FIG. 9 ). pNUT-C kappa contains the constant domain of the light chain of human IgG1 kappa (Huls et al. 1999) and received the variable domain of fully humanized monoclonal antibody UBS-54 kappa chain preceded by the following leader peptide: MACPGFLWALVISTCLEFSM (SEQ ID NO:25) (sequence: 5′-ATG GCA TGC CCT GGC TTC CTG TGG GCA CTT GTG ATC TCC ACC TGT CTT GAA TfT TCC ATG -3′ (SEQ ID NO:26), for details on the plasmid see U-BiSys of Utrecht, NL). This resulted in an insert of approximately 1.2 kb in length. 
 The entire insert was amplified by PCR using the upstream primer UBS-UP and the down stream primer CAML-DOWN, hereby modifying the translation start site. The resulting PCR product was digested with NheI and PmeI restriction enzymes, purified over agarose gel and ligated to pcDNA2001/DHFRwt that was also digested with NheI and PmeI, dephosphorylated by tSAP and purified over gel, resulting in pUBS-Light2001/DHFRwt ( FIG. 10 ). To remove the extra intron which is located between the variable domain and the first constant domain that is present in pNUT-Cgamma and to link the signal peptide and the variable domain to the wild type constant domains of human IgG1 heavy chain, lacking a number of polymorphisms present in the carboxy-terminal constant domain in pNUT-Cgamma, a PCR product is generated with primer UBS-UP and primer UBSHV-DOWN that has the following sequence: 5′-GAT C GC   TAG   C TG TCG AGA CGG TGA CCA G-3′ (SEQ ID NO:27), in which the introduced NheI site is underlined and the annealing nucleotides are italicized. The resulting PCR product is digested with NheI restriction enzyme, purified over gel and ligated to a NheI digested and SAP-dephosphorylated pHC2000/Hyg(−) plasmid that was purified over gel. The plasmid with the insert in the correct orientation and reading frame is named pUBS2-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) ( FIG. 11 ). 
 For removal of an extra intron which is located between the variable domain and the constant domain that is present in pNUT-Ckappa and to link the signal peptide and the variable domain to the wild type constant domain of human IgG1 light chain, a PCR product was generated with primer UBS-UP and primer UBSLV-DOWN that has the following sequence: 5′-GAT C CG   TAC   G CT TGA TCT CCA CCT TGG TC-3′ (SEQ ID NO:28), in which the introduced SunI site is underlined and the annealing nucleotides are in bold. Then the resulting PCR product was digested with MluI and SunI restriction enzymes, purified over gel and ligated to a MluI and SunI digested pLC2001/DHFRwt plasmid that was purified over gel. The resulting plasmid was named pUBS2-Light2001/DHFRwt ( FIG. 12 ). 
 The PCR product of the full-length heavy chain of UBS-54 is digested with NheI and PmeI restriction enzymes and blunted with Klenow enzyme. This fragment is ligated to the plasmid pcDNAs3000/DHFRwt that is digested with BstXI restriction enzyme, blunted, dephosphorylated by SAP and purified over gel. The plasmid with the heavy chain insert is named pUBS-Heavy3000/DHFRwt. Subsequently, the PCR of the light chain is digested with MluI and PmeI restriction enzymes, blunted, purified over gel and ligated to pUBS-Heavy3000/DHFRwt that is digested with HpaI, dephosphorylated by tSAP and purified over gel. The resulting vector is named pUBS-3000/DHFRwt ( FIG. 13 ). The gene that encodes the heavy chain of UBS-54 without an intron between the variable domain and the first constant region and with a wild type carboxy terminal constant region (2031 nucleotides) is purified over gel after digestion of pUBS2-2000/Hyg(−) with EcoRI and PmeI and treatment with Klenow enzyme and free nucleotides to blunt the EcoRI site. Subsequently, the insert is ligated to a pcDNAs3000/DHFRwt plasmid that is digested with BstXI, blunted, dephosphorylated with SAP and purified over gel. The resulting plasmid is named pUBS2-Heavy3000/DHFRwt. pUBS2-Light2001/DHFRwt is then digested with EcoRV and PmeI, and the 755 nucleotide insert containing the signal peptide linked to the variable domain of the kappa chain of UBS-54 and the constant domain of human IgG1 kappa chain without an intron sequence is purified over gel and ligated to pUBS2-Heavy3000/DHFRwt that is digested with HpaI, dephosphorylated with tSAP and purified over gel. The resulting plasmid is named pUBS2-3000/DHFRwt ( FIG. 14 ). 
 Plasmid pRc/CMV (Invitrogen) was digested with BstBI restriction enzymes, blunted with Klenow enzyme and subsequently digested with XmaI enzyme. The Neomycin resistance gene containing fragment was purified over agarose gel and ligated to pUBS-Light2001/DHFRwt plasmid that was digested with XmaI and PmlI restriction enzymes, followed by dephosphorylation with SAP and purified over gel to remove the DHFR cDNA. The resulting plasmid was named pUBS-Light2001/Neo(−). The fragment was also ligated to a XmaI/PmlI digested and gel purified pcDNA2001/DHFRwt plasmid resulting in pcDNA2001/Neo. The PCR product of the UBS-54 variable domain and the digested and purified constant domain PCR product were used in a three-point ligation with a MluI/PmeI digested pcDNA2001/Neo. The resulting plasmid was named pUBS2-Light2001/Neo. 
 Example 4 
 Construction of CAMPATH-1H Expression Vectors 
 Cambridge Bioscience Ltd. (UK) generates a 396 nucleotide fragment containing a perfect Kozak sequence followed by the signal sequence and the variable region of the published CAMPATH-1H light chain (Crowe et al. 1992). This fragment contains, on the 5′ end, an introduced and unique HindIII site and, on the 3′ end, an introduced and unique SunI site and is cloned into an appropriate shuttle vector. This plasmid is digested with HindIII and SunI and the resulting CAMPATH-1H light chain fragment is purified over gel and ligated into a HindIII/SunI digested and agarose gel purified pLC2001/DHFRwt. The resulting plasmid is named pCAMPATH-Light2001/DHFRwt. Cambridge Bioscience Ltd. (UK) generated a 438 nucleotide fragment containing a perfect Kozak sequence followed by the signal sequence and the published variable region of the CAMPATH-1H heavy chain (Crowe et al. 1992), cloned into an appropriate cloning vector. This product contains a unique HindIII restriction enzyme recognition site on the 5′ end and a unique NheI restriction enzyme recognition site on the 3′ end. This plasmid was digested with HindIII and NheI and the resulting CAMPATH-1H heavy chain fragment was purified over gel and ligated into a purified and HindIII/NheI digested pHC2000/Hyg(−). The resulting plasmid was named pCAMPATH-Heavy2000/Hyg(−). 
 Example 5 
 Construction of 15C5 Expression Vectors 
 The heavy chain of the humanized version of the monoclonal antibody 15C5 directed against human fibrin fragment D-dimer (Bulens et al. 1991; Vandamme et al. 1990) consisting of human constant domains including intron sequences, hinge region and variable regions preceded by the signal peptide from the 15C5 kappa light chain is amplified by PCR on plasmid “pCMgamma NEO Skappa Vgamma Cgamma hu” as a template using CAMH-DOWN as a down stream primer and 15C5-UP as the upstream primer. 15C5-UP has the following sequence: 5′-GA TC A   CGC   GTG   CTA   GCC   ACC   ATG   G GT ACT CCT GCT CAG TTT CTT GGA ATC-3′ (SEQ ID NO:29), in which the introduced MluI and NheI restriction recognition sites are underlined and the perfect Kozak sequence is italicized. To properly introduce an adequate Kozak context, the adenine at position +4 (the adenine in the ATG start codon is +1) is replaced by a guanine, resulting in a mutation from an arginine into a glycine amino acid. To prevent primer dimerization, position +6 of the guanine is replaced by a thymine and the position +9 of the cytosine is replaced by thymine. This latter mutation leaves the threonine residue intact. The resulting PCR was digested with NheI and PmeI restriction enzymes, purified over gel and ligated to a NheI and PmeI digested pcDNA2000/Hygro(−), that is dephosphorylated by SAP and purified over agarose gel. The resulting plasmid is named p15C5-Heavy2000/Hyg(−). The light chain of the humanized version of the monoclonal antibody 15C5 directed against human fibrin fragment D-dimer (Bulens et al. 1991; Vandamme et al. 1990) consisting of the human constant domain and variable regions preceded by a 20 amino acid signal peptide is amplified by PCR on plasmid pCMkappa DHFR13 15C5kappa hu as a template, using CAML-DOWN as a down stream primer and 15C5-UP as the upstream primer. The resulting PCR is digested with NheI and PmeI restriction enzymes, purified over gel and ligated to a NheI and PmeI digested pcDNA2001/DHFRwt that is dephosphorylated by SAP and purified over agarose gel. The resulting plasmid is named p15C5-Light2001/DHFRwt. 
 Example 6 
 Establishment of Methotrexate Hygromycin and G418 Selection Levels 
 PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells were seeded in different densities. The starting concentration of methotrexate (MTX) in these sensitivity studies ranged between 0 nM and 2500 nM. The concentration which was just lethal for both cell lines was determined; when cells were seeded in densities of 100,000 cells per well in a 6-well dish, wells were still 100% confluent at 10 nM and approximately 90-100% confluent at 25 nM, while most cells were killed at a concentration of 50 nM and above after 6 days to 15 days of incubation. These results are summarized in Table 1. PER.C6T™ cells were tested for their resistance to c combination of Hygromycin and G418 to select outgrowing stable colonies that expressed both heavy and light chains for the respective recombinant monoclonal antibodies encoded by plasmids carrying either a hygromycin or a neomycin resistance gene. When cells were grown on normal medium containing 100 μg/ml hygromycin and 250 μg/ml G418, non-transfected cells were killed and stable colonies could appear. (See, Example 7.) 
 CHO-dhfr cells ATCC deposit: CRL9096 are seeded in different densities in their respective culture medium. The starting concentration of methotrexate in these sensitivity studies ranges from approximately 0.5 nM to 500 nM. The concentration, which is just lethal for the cell line, is determined and subsequently used directly after growth selection on hygromycin in the case of IgG heavy chain selection (hyg) and light chain selection (dhfr). 
 Example 7 
 Transfection of EPO Expression Vectors to Obtain Stable Cell Lines 
 Cells of cell lines PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A were seeded in 40 tissue culture dishes (10 cm diameter) with approximately 2-3 million cells/dish and were kept overnight under their respective conditions (10% CO 2  concentration and temperature, which is 39° C. for PER.C6™/E2A cells and 37° C. for PER.C6™ cells). The next day, transfections were all performed at 37° C. using Lipofectamine (Gibco). After replacement with fresh (DMEM) medium after 4 hours, PER.C6™/E2A cells were transferred to 39° C. again, while PER.C6™ cells were kept at 37° C. Twenty dishes of each cell line were transfected with 5 μg ScaI digested pEPO2000/DHFRwt and twenty dishes were transfected with 5 μg ScaI digested pEPO2000/DHFRm, all according to standard protocols. Another 13 dishes served as negative controls for methotrexate killing and transfection efficiency, which was approximately 50%. On the next day, MTX was added to the dishes in concentrations ranging between 100 and 1000 nM for DHFRwt and 50,000 and 500,000 nM for DHFRm dissolved in medium containing dialyzed FBS. Cells were incubated over a period of 4-5 weeks. Tissue medium (including MTX) was refreshed every two-three days. Cells were monitored daily for death, comparing between positive and negative controls. Outgrowing colonies were picked and subcultured. No positive clones could be subcultured from the transfectants that received the mutant DHFR gene, most likely due to toxic effects of the high concentrations of MTX that were applied. From the PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells that were transfected with the wild type DHFR gene, only cell lines could be established in the first passages when cells were grown on 100 nM MTX, although colonies appeared on dishes with 250 and 500 nM MTX. These clones were not viable during subculturing, and were discarded. 
 Example 8 
 Subculturing of Transfected Cells 
 From each cell line, approximately 50 selected colonies that were resistant to the threshold MTX concentration were grown subsequently in 96-well, 24-well, and 6-well plates and T25 flasks in their respective medium plus MTX. When cells reached growth in T25 tissue culture flasks, at least one vial of each clone was frozen and stored, and was subsequently tested for human recombinant EPO production. For this, the commercial ELISA kit from R&D Systems was used (Quantikine IVD human EPO, Quantitative Colorimetric Sandwich ELISA, cat.# DEPOO). Since the different clones appeared to have different growth characteristics and growth curves, a standard for EPO production was set as follows: At  day  0, cells were seeded in T25 tissue culture flasks in concentrations ranging between 0.5 to 1.5 million per flask. At  day  4, supernatant was taken and used in the EPO ELISA. From this, the production level was set as ELISA units per million seeded cells per day. (U/1E6/day) A number of these clones are given in Table 2. 
 The following selection of good producer clones was based on high expression, culturing behavior and viability. To allow checks for long-term viability, suspension growth in roller bottles and bioreactor during extended time periods, more vials of the best producer clones were frozen, and the following best producers of each cell line were selected for further investigations P8, P9, E17 and E55 in which “P” stands for PER.C6™ cells and “E” stands for PER.C6™/E2A cells. These clones are subcultured and subjected to increasing doses of methotrexate in a time span of two months. The concentration starts at the threshold concentration and increases to approximately 0.2 mM. During these two months, EPO ELISA experiments are performed on a regular basis to detect an increase in EPO production. At the highest methotrexate concentration, the best stable producer is selected and compared to the amounts from the best CHO clone and used for cell banking (RL). From every other clone, 5 vials are frozen. The number of amplified EPO cDNA copies is detected by Southern blotting. 
 Example 9 
 EPO Production in Bioreactors 
 The best performing EPO producing transfected stable cell line of PER.C6™ cells, P9, was brought into suspension and scaled up to 1 to 2 liter fermentors. To get P9 into suspension, attached cells were washed with PBS and subsequently incubated with JRH ExCell 525 medium for PER.C6™ cells (JRH Biosciences), after which the cells loosen from the flask and form the suspension culture. Cells were kept at two concentrations of MTX: 0 nM and 100 nM. General production levels of EPO that were reached at these concentrations (in roller bottles) were respectively 1500 and 5700 units per million seeded cells per day. Although the lower yields in the absence of MTX can be explained by removal of the integrated DNA, it seems as if there is a shut-down effect of the integrated DNA since cells that are kept at lower concentrations of MTX for longer periods of time are able to reach their former yields when they are transferred to 100 nM MTX concentrations again. (See, Example 11.) 
 Suspension P9 cells were grown normally with 100 nM MTX and used for inoculation of bioreactors. Two bioreactor settings were tested: perfusion and repeated batch cultures. 
 A. Perfusion in a 2 Liter Bioreactor. 
 Cells were seeded at a concentration of 0.5×10 6  cells per ml and perfusion was started at  day  3 after cells reached a density of approximately 2.3×10 6  cells per ml. The perfusion rate was 1 volume per 24 hours with a bleed of approximately 250 ml per 24 hours. In this setting, P9 cells stayed at a constant density of approximately 5×10 6  cells per ml and a viability of almost 95% for over a month. The EPO concentration was determined on a regular basis and is shown in  FIG. 15 . In the 2 liter perfused bioreactor the P9 cells were able to maintain a production level of approximately 6000 ELISA units per ml. With a perfusion rate of 1 working volume per day (1.5 to 1.6 liter), this means that in this 2 liter setting, the P9 cells produced approximately 1×10 7  units per day per 2 liter bioreactor in the absence of MTX. 
 B. Repeated Batch in a 2 Liter Bioreactor. 
 P9 suspension cells that were grown on roller bottles were used to inoculate a 2 liter bioreactor in the absence of MTX and were left to grow until a density of approximately 1.5 million cells per ml, after which a third of the population was removed (±1 liter per 2 to 3 days) and the remaining culture was diluted with fresh medium to reach again a density of 0.5 million cells per ml. This procedure was repeated for 3 weeks and the working volume was kept at 1.6 liter. EPO concentrations in the removed medium were determined and shown in  FIG. 16 . The average concentration was approximately 3000 ELISA units per ml. With an average period of 2 days after which the population was diluted, this means that, in this 2 liter setting, the P9 cells produced approximately 1.5×10 6  units per day in the absence of MTX. 
 C. Repeated Batch in a 1 Liter Bioreactor with Different Concentrations of Dissolved Oxygen, Temperatures and pH Settings. 
 Fresh P9 suspension cells were grown in the presence of 100 nM MTX in roller bottles and used for inoculation of 4×1 liter bioreactors to a density of 0.3 million cells per ml in JRH ExCell 525 medium. EPO yields were determined after 3, 5 and 7 days. The first settings that were tested were: 0.5%, 10%, 150% and as a  positive control  50% Dissolved Oxygen (% DO). 50% DO is the condition in which PER.C6™ and P9 cells are normally kept. In another run, P9 cells were inoculated and tested for EPO production at different temperatures (32° C., 34° C., 37° C. and 39° C.) in which 37° C. is the normal setting for PER.C6™ and P9 cells, and in the third run, fresh P9 cells were inoculated and tested for EPO production at different pH settings (pH 6.5, pH 6.8, pH 7.0 and pH 7.3). PER.C6™ cells are normally kept at pH 7.3. An overview of the EPO yields (3 days after seeding) is shown in  FIG. 17 . Apparently, EPO concentrations increase when the temperature is rising from 32 to 39° C. as was also seen with PER.C6™/E2A cells grown at 39° C. (Table 4), and 50% DO is optimal for P9 in the range that was tested here. At pH 6.5, cells cannot survive since the viability in this bioreactor dropped beneath 80% after 7 days. EPO samples produced in these settings are checked for glycosylation and charge in 2D electrophoresis. (See, also Example 17.) 
 Example 10 
 Amplification of the DHFR Gene 
 A number of cell lines described in Example 8 were used in an amplification experiment to determine the possibility of increasing the number of DHFR genes by increasing the concentration of MTX in a time span of more than two months. The concentration started at the threshold concentration (100 nM) and increased to 1800 nM with in-between steps of 200 nM, 400 nM, 800 nM and 1200 nM. During this period, EPO ELISA experiments were performed on a regular basis to detect the units per million seeded cells per day ( FIG. 18 ). At the highest MTX concentration (1800 nM), some vials were frozen. Cell pellets were obtained and DNA was extracted and subsequently digested with BglII, since this enzyme cuts around the wild type DHFR gene in pEPO2000/DHFRwt ( FIG. 5 ), so a distinct DHFR band of that size would be distinguishable from the endogenous DHFR bands in a Southern blot. This DNA was run and blotted and the blot was hybridized with a radioactive DHFR probe and subsequently with an adenovirus E1 probe as a background control ( FIG. 19 ). The intensities of the hybridizing bands were measured in a phosphorimager and corrected for background levels. These results are shown in Table 3. Apparently, it is possible to obtain amplification of the DHFR gene in PER.C6™ cells, albeit in this case only with the endogenous DHFR and not with the integrated vector. 
 Example 11 
 Stability of EPO Expression in Stable Cell Lines 
 A number of cell lines mentioned in Example 8 were subject to long term culturing in the presence and absence of MTX. EPO concentrations were measured regularly in which 1.0 to 1.5×10 6  cells per T25 flask were seeded and left for 4 days to calculate the production levels of EPO per million seeded cells per day. The results are shown in  FIG. 20 . From this it is concluded that there is a relatively stable expression of EPO in P9 cells when cells are cultured in the presence of MTX and that there is a decrease in EPO production in the absence of MTX. However, when P9 cells were placed on 100 nM MTX again after being cultured for a longer period of time without MTX, the expressed EPO reached its original level (±3000 ELISA units per million seeded cells per day), suggesting that the integrated plasmids are shut off but are stably integrated and can be switched back on again. It seems as if there are differences between the cell lines P8 and P9 because the production level of P8 in the presence of MTX is decreasing in time over a high number of passages ( FIG. 20A ), while P9 production is stable for at least 62 passages ( FIG. 20B ). 
 Example 12 
 Transient Expression of Recombinant EPO on Attached and Suspension Cells after Plasmid DNA Transfections 
 pEPO2000/DHFRwt, pEPO2000/DHFRm and pAdApt.EPO plasmids from Example 2 are purified from  E. coli  over columns, and are transfected using lipofectamine, electroporation, PEI or other methods. PER.C6™ or PER.C6™/E2A cells are counted and seeded in DMEM plus serum or JRH ExCell 525 medium or the appropriate medium for transfection in suspension. Transfection is performed at 37° C. up to 16 hours, depending on the transfection method used, according to procedures known by a person skilled in the art. Subsequently, the cells are placed at different temperatures and the medium is replaced by fresh medium with or without serum. In the case when it is necessary to obtain medium that completely lacks serum components, the fresh medium lacking serum is removed again after 3 hours and replaced again by medium lacking serum components. For determination of recombinant EPO production, samples are taken at different time points. Yields of recombinant protein are determined using an ELISA kit (R&D Systems) in which 1 Unit equals approximately 10 ng of recombinant CHO- produced EPO protein (100,000 Units/mg). The cells used in these experiments grow at different rates, due to their origin, characteristics and temperature. Therefore, the amount of recombinant EPO produced is generally calculated in ELISA units/10 6  seeded cells/day, taking into account that the antisera used in the ELISA kit do not discriminate between non- and highly glycosylated recombinant EPO. Generally, samples for these calculations are taken at  day  4 after replacing the medium upon transfection. 
 PER.C6™/E2A cells, transfected at 37° C. using lipofectamine and subsequently grown at 39° C. in the presence of serum, typically produced 3100 units/10 6  cells/day. In the absence of serum components without any refreshment of medium lacking serum, these lipofectamine-transfected cells typically produced 2600 units/10 6  cells/day. PER.C6™ cells, transfected at 37° C. using lipofectamine and subsequently grown at 37° C. in the presence of serum, typically produced 750 units/10 6  cells/day and, in the absence of serum, 590 units/10 6  cells/day. For comparison, the same expression plasmids pEPO2000/DHFRwt and pEPO2000/DHFRm were also applied to transfect CHO cells (ECACC deposit No.85050302) using lipofectamine, PEI, calcium phosphate procedures and other methods. When CHO cells were transfected using lipofectamine and subsequently cultured in Hams F12 medium in the presence of serum, a yield of 190 units/10 6  cells/day was obtained. In the absence of serum, 90 units/10 6  cells/day were produced, although higher yields can be obtained when transfections are being performed in DMEM. 
 Different plates containing attached PER.C6™/E2A cells were also transfected at 37° C. with pEPO2000/DHFRwt plasmid and subsequently placed at 32° C., 34° C., 37° C. or 39° C. to determine the influence of temperature on recombinant EPO production. A temperature-dependent production level was observed ranging from 250 to 610 units/10 6  seeded cells/day, calculated from a  day  4 sample, suggesting that the difference between production levels observed in PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells is partly due to incubation temperatures (see also  FIG. 17 ). Since PER.C6™/E2A cells grow well at 37° C., further studies were performed at 37° C. 
 Different plates containing attached PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells were transfected with pEPO2000/DHFRwt, pEPO2000/DHFRm and pAdApt.EPO using lipofectamine. Four hours after transfection, the DMEM was replaced with either DMEM plus serum or JRH medium lacking serum and EPO was allowed to accumulate in the supernatant for several days to determine the concentrations that are produced in the different mediums. PER.C6™ cells were incubated at 37° C., while PER.C6™/E2A cells were kept at 39° C. Data from the different plasmids were averaged since they contain a similar expression cassette. Calculated from a  day  6 sample, the following data were obtained: PER.C6™ cells grown in DMEM produced 400 units/10 6  seeded cells/day, and when they were kept in JRH medium, they produced 300 units/10 6  seeded cells/day. PER.C6™/E2A cells grown in DMEM produced 1800 units/10 6  seeded cells/day, and when they were kept in JRH, they produced 1100 units/10 6  seeded cells/day. Again, a clear difference was observed in production levels between PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells, although this might partly be due to temperature differences (see above paragraph [0140]). There was, however, a significant difference with PER.C6™/E2A cells between the concentration in DMEM vs. the concentration in JRH medium, although this effect was almost completely lost in PER.C6™ cells. 
 EPO expression data obtained in this system are summarized in Table 4. PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof can be used for scaling up the DNA transfections system. According to Wurm and Bernard (1999), transfections on suspension cells can be performed at 1-10 liter set-ups in which yields of 1-10 mg/l (0.1-1 pg/cell/day) of recombinant protein have been obtained using electroporation. A need exists for a system in which this can be well controlled and yields might be higher, especially for screening of large numbers of proteins and toxic proteins that cannot be produced in a stable setting. With the lipofectamine transfections on the best PER.C6™ cells in the absence of serum, we reached 590 units/million cells/day (+/−5.9 pg/cell/day when 1 ELISA unit is approximately 10 ng EPO), while PER.C6™/E2A cells reached 31 pg/cell/day (in the presence of serum). The medium used for suspension cultures of PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells (JRH ExCell 525) does not support efficient tranisent DNA transfections using components like PEI. Therefore, the medium is adjusted to enable production of recombinant EPO after transfection of pEPO2000/DHFRwt and pEPO2000/DHFRm containing a recombinant human EPO cDNA, and pcDNA2000/DHFRwt containing other cDNAs encoding recombinant proteins. 
 One to 10 liter suspension cultures of PER.C6T and PER.C6™/E2A cells growing in adjusted medium to support transient DNA transfections using purified plasmid DNA are used for electroporation or other methods, performing transfection with the same expression plasmids. After several hours, the transfection medium is removed and replaced by fresh medium without serum. The recombinant protein is allowed to accumulate in the supernatant for several days, after which the supernatant is harvested and all the cells are removed. The supernatant is used for down stream processing to purify the recombinant protein. 
 Example 13 
 Generation of AdApt.EPO Recombinant Adenoviruses 
 pAdApt.EPO was co-transfected with the pWE/Ad.AflII-rITR.tetO-E4, pWE/Ad.AflII-rITR.DE2A, and pWE/Ad.AflII-rITR.DE2A.tetO-E4 cosmids in the appropriate cell lines using procedures known to persons skilled in the art. Subsequently, cells were left at their appropriate temperatures for several days until full cytopathic effect (“CPE”) was observed. Then cells were applied to several freeze/thaw steps to free all viruses from the cells, after which the cell debris was spun down. For IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A, the supernatant was used to infect cells, followed by an agarose overlay for plaque purification using several dilutions. After a number of days, when single plaques were clearly visible in the highest dilutions, nine plaques and one negative control (picked cells between clear plaques, so most likely not containing virus) were picked and checked for EPO production on A549 cells. All plaque picked viruses were positive and the negative control did not produce recombinant EPO. One positive producer was used to infect the appropriate cells and to propagate virus starting from a T-25 flask to a roller bottle setting. Supernatants from the roller bottles were used to purify the virus, after which the number of virus particles (vps) was determined and compared to the number of infectious units (IUs) using procedures known to persons skilled in the art. Then, the vp/IU ratio was determined. 
 Example 14 
 Infection of Attached and Suspension PER.C6™ Cells with IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A 
 Purified viruses from Example 13 were used for transient expression of recombinant EPO in PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof. IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A virus was used to infect PER.C6™ cells, while IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.tetOE4 and IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A.tetOE4 viruses can be used to infect PER.C6™/E2A cells to lower the possibility of replication and, moreover, to prevent inhibition of recombinant protein production due to replication processes. Infections were performed on attached cells as well as on suspension cells in their appropriate medium using ranges of multiplicities of infection (mois): 20, 200, 2000, 20000 vp/cell. Infections were performed for 4 hours in different settings ranging from 6-well plates to roller bottles, after which the virus containing supernatant was removed. The cells were washed with PBS or directly refreshed with new medium. Then, cells were allowed to produce recombinant EPO for several days, during which samples were taken and EPO yields were determined. Also, the number of viable cells compared to dead cells was checked. The amount of EPO that was produced was again calculated as ELISA unit seeded cells/day, because the different cell lines have different growth characteristics due to their passage number and environmental circumstances such as temperature and selective pressures. Suspension growing PER.C6™ cells were seeded in 250 ml JRH ExCell 525 medium in roller bottles (1 million cells per ml) and subsequently infected with purified IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A virus with an moi of 200 vp/cell. The estimation used for vp determination was high (vp/IU ratio of this batch is 330, which indicates an moi of 0.61 IUs/cell). Thus, not all cells were hit by an infectious virus. A typical production of recombinant EPO in this setting from a  day  6 sample was 190 units/10 6  seeded cells/day, while in a setting in which 50% of the medium including viable and dead cells was replaced by fresh medium, approximately 240 units/10 6  cells/day were obtained. The refreshment did not influence the viability of the viable cells, but the removed recombinant protein could be added to the amount that was obtained at the end of the experiment, albeit present in a larger volume. An identical experiment was performed with the exception that cells were infected with an moi of 20 vp/cell, resembling approximately 0.06 Infectious Units/cell. Without refreshment, a yield of 70 ELISA units/10 6  cells/day was obtained, while in the experiment in which 50% of the medium was refreshed at  day  3, a typical amount of 80 units/10 6  cells/day was measured. This indicates that there is a dose response effect when an increasing number of infectious units is used for infection of PER.C6™ cells. 
 Furthermore, PER.C6™ cells growing in DMEM were seeded in 6-well plates and left overnight in 2 ml DMEM with serum to attach. The next day, cells were infected with another batch of IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A virus (vp/IU ratio 560) with an moi of 200 vp/cells (0.35 Infectious Units/cell). After 4 hours, the virus containing medium was removed and replaced by fresh medium including serum, and cells were left to produce recombinant EPO for more than two weeks with replacement of the medium with fresh medium every day. The yield of recombinant EPO production calculated from a  day  4 sample was 60 units/10 6  cells/day. 
 Expression data obtained in this system have been summarized in Table 5. 
 Due to the fact that a tTA-tetO regulated expression of the  Early region  4 of adenovirus (E4) impairs the replication capacity of the recombinant virus in the absence of active E4, it is also possible to use the possible protein production potential of the PER.C6™/E2A cells, as well as its parental cell line PER.C6™, to produce recombinant proteins in a setting in which a recombinant adenovirus is carrying the human EPO cDNA as the transgene and in which the E4 gene is under the control of a tet operon. Then, very low levels of E4 mRNA are being produced, resulting in very low but detectable levels of recombinant and replicating virus in the cell line PER.C6™/E2A and no detectable levels of this virus in PER.C6™ cells. To produce recombinant EPO in this way, the two viruses IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.tetOE4 and IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A.tetOE4 are used to infect PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof. Attached and suspension cells are infected with different mois of the purified adenoviruses in small settings (6-well plates and T25 flasks) and large settings (roller bottles and fermentors). Samples are taken at different timepoints and EPO levels are determined. 
 Since viruses that are deleted in E1 and E2A in the viral backbone can be complemented in PER.C6™/E2A cells but not in the original PER.C6™ cells, settings are used in which a mixture of both cell lines is cultured in the presence of IG.Ad5/AdApt.EPO.dE2A virus. The virus will replicate in PER.C6™/E2A cells, followed by lysis of the infected cells and a subsequent infection of PER.C6™ or PER.C6™/E2A cells. In contrast, in PER.C6™ cells, the virus will not replicate and the cells will not lyse due to viral particle production, but will produce recombinant EPO that will be secreted in the supernatant. A steady state culture/replication/EPO production system is set up in which fresh medium and fresh PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells are added at a constant flow, while used medium, dead cells and debris are removed. Together with this, recombinant EPO is taken from the system and used for purification in a down stream processing procedure in which virus particles are removed. 
 Example 15 
 Purification and Analysis of Recombinant EPO 
 Large batches of growing cells are produced in bioreactors; the secreted recombinant human EPO protein is purified according to procedures known by one of skill in the art. The purified recombinant human EPO protein from PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A stable clones or transfectants is checked for glycosylation and folding by comparison with commercially available EPO and EPO purified from human origin (urine) using methods known to one of skill in the art (see, Examples 16 and 17). Purified and glycosylated EPO proteins from PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells are tested for biological activity in in vitro experiments and in mouse spleens as described (Krystal (1983) and in vitro assays (see, Example 18). 
 Example 16 
 Activity of Beta- galactoside Alpha  2,6-sialyltransferase in PER.C6™ Cells 
 It is known that CHO cells do not contain a gene for beta- galactoside alpha  2,6-sialyltransferase, resulting in the absence of  alpha  2,6-linked sialic acids at the terminal ends of—and O-linked oligosaccharides of endogenous and recombinant glycoproteins produced on these CHO cells. Since the  alpha  2,3-sialyltransferase gene is present in CHO cells, proteins that are produced on these cells are typically from the 2,3 linkage type. EPO that was purified from human urine does, however, contain both  alpha  2,3- and  alpha  2,6-linked sialic acids. To determine whether PER.C6™ cells, being a human cell line, are able to produce recombinant EPO containing both  alpha  2,3- and  alpha  2,6-linkages, a direct neuraminidase assay was performed on recombinant EPO produced on PER.C6™ cells after transfection with EPO expression vectors. As a control, commercially available Eprex samples were used, which were derived from CHO cells and which should only contain sialic acid linkages of the    alpha    2,3 type. The neuraminidases that were used were from Newcastle Disease Virus (NDV) that specifically cleaves  alpha  2,3-linked neuraminic acids (sialic acids) from—and O-linked glycans, and from Vibro cholerae (VC) that non-specifically cleaves all terminal—or O-linked sialic acids (   alpha    2,3,    alpha    2,6 and    alpha    2,8 linkages). Both neuraminidases were from Boehringer and were incubated with the samples according to guidelines provided by the manufacturer. Results are shown in  FIG. 21A . In  lanes  2 and 3 (treatment with NDV neuraminidase), a slight shift is observed as compared to lane 1 (non-treated PER.C6™ cells expressing EPO). When this EPO sample was incubated with VC derived neuraminidase, an even faster migrating band is observed as compared to NDV treated samples. However, with the commercially available Eprex, only a shift was observed when NDV derived neuraminidase was applied (   lanes    6 and 7 compared to the non-treated sample in lane 5) and not when VC neuraminidase was used (lane 8). 
 To definitely establish that no sialic acids of the    alpha    2,6 linkage type are present on CHO cells, but that they do exist in proteins present on the cell surface of PER.C6™ cells, the following experiment was performed: CHO cells were released from the solid support using trypsin-EDTA, while for PER.C6™ cells, suspension cells were used. Both suspensions were washed once with Mem-5% FBS and incubated iii this medium for 1 hour at 37° C. After washing with PBS, the cells were resuspended to approximately 10 6  cells/ml in binding medium (Tris-buffered saline, pH 7.5, 0.5% BSA, and 1 mM each of MgCl 2 , MnCl 2  and CaCl 2 ). Aliquots of the cells were incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with DIG-labeled lectins,  Sambucus nigra  agglutinin (“SNA”) and  Maackia amurensis  agglutinin (“MAA”), which specifically bind to sialic acid linkages of the    alpha    2,6 Gal and    alpha    2,3 Gal types, respectively. Control cells were incubated without lectins. After 1 hour, both lectin-treated and control cells were washed with PBS and then incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with FITC-labeled anti-DIG antibody (Boehringer-Mannheim). Subsequently, the cells were washed with PBS and analyzed for fluorescence intensity on a FACsort apparatus (Becton Dickinson). The FACS analysis is shown in  FIG. 21B . When the SNA lectin is incubated with CHO cells, no shift is seen as compared to non-treated cells, while when this lectin is incubated with PER.C6™ cells, a clear shift (dark fields) is observed as compared to non-treated cells (open fields). When both cell lines are incubated with the MAA lectin, both cell lines give a clear shift as compared to non-treated cells. 
 From these EPO digestions and FACS results, it is concluded that there is a beta-   galactoside alpha    2,6 sialyltransferase activity present in human PER.C6™ cells which is absent in CHO cells. 
 Example 17 
 Determination of Sialic Acid Content in PER.C6™ Cells Producing EPO 
 The terminal neuraminic acids (or sialic acids) that are present on the—and O-linked glycans of EPO protect the protein from clearance from the bloodstream by enzymes in the liver. Moreover, since these sialic acids are negatively charged, one can distinguish between different EPO forms depending on their charge or specific pI. Therefore, EPO produced on PER.C6™ and CHO cells was used in 2-dimensional electrophoresis in which the first dimension separates the protein on charge (pH range 3-10) and the second dimension separates the proteins further on molecular weight. Subsequently, the proteins were blotted and detected in a western blot with an anti-EPO antibody. 
 It is also possible to detect the separated EPO protein by staining the gel using Coomassie blue or silverstaining methods, subsequently removing different spots from the gel and determining the specific glycan composition of the different—or O-linked glycosylations that are present on the protein by mass spectrometry. 
 In  FIG. 22A , a number of EPO samples are shown that were derived from P9 supernatants. P9 is the PER.C6™ cell line that stably expresses recombinant human EPO (see, Example 8). These samples were compared to commercially available Eprex, which contains only EPO forms harboring approximately 9 to 14 sialic acids. Eprex should, therefore, be negatively charged and be focusing towards the  pH  3 side of the gel.  FIG. 22B  shows a comparison between EPO derived from P9 in an attached setting in which the cells were cultured on DMEM medium and EPO derived from CHO cells that were transiently transfected with the pEPO2000/DHFRwt vector. Apparently, the lower forms of EPO cannot be detected in the CHO samples, whereas all forms can be seen in the P9 sample. The sialic acid content is given by numbering the bands that were separated in the first dimension from 1 to 14. It is not possible to determine the percentage of each form of EPO molecules present in the mixtures because the western blot was performed using ECL, and because it is unknown whether glycosylation of the EPO molecule or transfer of the EPO molecule to the mitrocellulose inhibits recognition of the EPO molecule by the antibody. However, it is possible to determine the presence of the separate forms of sialic acid containing EPO molecules. It can be concluded that PER.C6™ cells are able to produce the entire range of 14 sialic acid containing isoforms of recombinant human EPO. 
 Example 18 
 In Vitro Functionality of PER.C6™ Cells Producing EPO 
 The function of recombinant EPO in vivo is determined by its half-life in the bloodstream. Removal of EPO takes place by liver enzymes that bind to galactose residues in the glycans that are not protected by sialic acids and by removal through the kidney. Whether this filtering by the kidney is due to misfolding or due to under- or mis-glycosylation is unknown. Furthermore, EPO molecules that reach their targets in the bone marrow and bind to the EPO receptor on progenitor cells are also removed from circulation. Binding to the EPO receptor and down stream signaling depends heavily on a proper glycosylation status of the EPO molecule. Sialic acids can, to some extent, inhibit binding of EPO to the EPO receptor, resulting in a lower effectivity of the protein. However, since the sialic acids prevent EPO from removal, these sugars are essential for its function to protect the protein on its travel to the EPO receptor. When sialic acids are removed from EPO in vitro, a better binding to the receptor occurs, resulting in a stronger down stream signaling. This means that the functionalities in vivo and in vitro are significantly different, although a proper EPO receptor binding property can be checked in vitro despite the possibility of an under-sialylation causing a short half-life in vivo (Takeuchi et al. 1989). 
 Several in vitro assays for EPO functionality have been described of which the stimulation of the IL3, GM-CSF and EPO-dependent human cell line TF-1 is most commonly used. Hereby, one can determine the number of in vitro units per mg (Kitamura et al. 1989; Hammerling et al. 1996). Other in vitro assays are the formation of red colonies under an agarose layer of bone marrow cells that were stimulated to differentiate by EPO, the incorporation of 59Fe into heme in cultured mouse bone marrow cells (Krystal et al. 1981 and 1983; Takeuchi et al. 1989), in rat bone marrow cells (Goldwasser et al. 1975) and the Radio Immuno Assay (RIA) in which the recognition of EPO for antisera is determined. 
 EPO produced on PER.C6™/E2A cells was used to stimulate TF-1 cells as follows: Cells were seeded in 96-well plates with a density of around 10,000 cells per well in medium lacking IL3 or GM-CSF, which are the growth factors that can stimulate indefinite growth of these cells in culture. Subsequently, medium is added, resulting in final concentrations of 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1 and 10 units per ml. These units were determined by ELISA, while the units of the positive control Eprex were known (4000 units per ml) and were diluted to the same concentration. Cells were incubated with these EPO samples for 4 days, after which an MTS assay (Promega) was performed to check for viable cells by fluorescence measurement at 490 nm (fluorescence is detectable after transfer of MTS into formazan).  FIG. 23  shows the activity of two samples derived from PER.C6™/E2A cells that were transfected with an EPO expression vector and subsequently incubated at 37° C. and 39° C. for 4 days. The results suggest that samples obtained at 39° C. are more active than samples obtained at 37° C., which might indicate that the sialic acid content is suboptimal at higher temperatures. It is hereby shown that PER.C6™ cells producing EPO can stimulate TF-1 cells in an in vitro assay, strongly suggesting that the EPO that is produced on this human cell line can interact with the EPO receptor and stimulate differentiation. 
 Example 19 
 Production of Recombinant Murine, Humanized and Human Monoclonal Antibodies in PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A Cells 
 A. Transient DNA Transfections 
 cDNAs encoding heavy and light chains of murine, humanized and human monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are cloned in two different systems: one in which the heavy and light chains are integrated into one single plasmid (a modified pcDNA2000/DHFRwt plasmid) and the other in which heavy and light chain cDNAs are cloned separately into two different plasmids (see, Examples 1, 3, 4 and 5). These plasmids can carry the same selection marker (like DHFR) or they carry their own selection marker (one that contains the DHFR gene and one that contains, for instance, the neo-resistance marker). For transient expression systems, it does not matter what selection markers are present in the backbone of the vector since no subsequent selection is being performed. In the common and regular transfection methods used in the art, equal amounts of plasmids are transfected. A disadvantage of integrating both heavy and light chains on one single plasmid is that the promoters that are driving the expression of both cDNAs might influence each other, resulting in non-equal expression levels of both subunits, although the number of cDNA copies of each gene is exactly the same. 
 Plasmids containing the cDNAs of the heavy and light chain of a murine and a humanized monoclonal antibody are transfected and, after several days, the concentration of correctly folded antibody is determined using methods known to persons skilled in the art. Conditions such as temperature and used medium are checked for both PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells. Functionality of the produced recombinant antibody is controlled by determination of affinity for the specified antigen. 
 B. Transient Viral Infections 
 cDNAs encoding a heavy and a light chain are cloned in two different systems: one in which the heavy and light chains are integrated into one single adapter plasmid (a modified pAdApt.pac) and the other in which heavy and light chain cDNAs are cloned separately into two different adapters (each separately in pAdApt.pac). In the first system, viruses are propagated that carry an E1 deletion (dE1) together with a E2A deletion (dE2A) or both deletions in the context of a tetOE4 insertion in the adenoviral backbone. In the second system, the heavy and light chains are cloned separately in pAdApt.pac and separately propagated to viruses with the same adenoviral backbone. These viruses are used to perform single or co-infections on attached and suspension growing PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells. After several days, samples are taken to determine the concentration of full length recombinant antibodies, after which the functionality of these antibodies is determined using the specified antigen in affinity studies. 
 C. Stable Production and Amplification of the Integrated Plasmid. 
 Expression plasmids carrying the heavy and light chain together and plasmids carrying the heavy and light chain separately are used to transfect attached PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A and CHO-dhfr cells. Subsequently, cells are exposed to MTX and/or hygromycin and neomycin to select for integration of the different plasmids. Moreover, a double selection with G418 and hygromycin is performed to select for integration of plasmids that carry the neomycin and hygromycin resistance gene. Expression of functional full length monoclonal antibodies is determined and best expressing clones are used for subsequent studies including stability of integration, copy number detection, determination of levels of both subunits and ability to amplify upon increase of MTX concentration after the best performing cell lines are used for mAb production in larger settings such as perfused and (fed-) batch bioreactors, after which optimization of quantity and quality of the mAbs is executed. 
 Example 20 
 Transfection of mAb Expression Vectors to Obtain Stable Cell Lines 
 PER.C6™ cells were seeded in DMEM plus 10% FBS in 47 tissue culture dishes (10 cm diameter) with approximately 2.5×10 6  cells per dish and were kept overnight under their normal culture conditions (10% CO 2  concentration and 37° C.). The next day, co-transfections were performed in 39 dishes at 37° C. using Lipofectamine in standard protocols with 1 μg MunI digested and purified pUBS-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) and 1 μg ScaI digested and purified pUBS-Light2001/Neo (see, Example 3) per dish, while 2 dishes were co-transfected as controls with 1 μg MunI digested and purified pcDNA2000/Hyg(−) and 1 μg ScaI digested and purified pcDNA2001/Neo. As a control for transfection efficiency, 4 dishes were transfected with a LacZ control vector, while 2 dishes were not transfected and served as negative controls. 
 After 5 hours, cells were washed twice with DMEM and refed with fresh medium without selection. The next day, medium was replaced by fresh medium containing different selection reagents: 33 dishes of the heavy and light chain co-transfectants, 2 dishes that were transfected with the empty vectors and the 2 negative controls (no transfection) were incubated only with 50 μg per ml hygromycin, 2 dishes of the heavy and light chain co-transfectants and 2 dishes of the transfection efficiency dishes (LacZ vector) were incubated only with 500 μg per ml G418, while 2 transfection efficiency dishes were not treated with selection medium but used for transfection efficiency that was around 40%. Two dishes were incubated with a combination of 50 μg per ml hygromycin and 250 μg per ml G418 and 2 dishes were incubated with 25 μg per ml hygromycin and 500 μg per ml G418. 
 Since cells were overgrowing when they were only incubated with hygromycin alone, it was decided that a combination of hygromycin and G418 selection would immediately kill the cells that integrated only one type of the two vectors that were transfected. Seven days after seeding, all co-transfectants were further incubated with a combination of 100 μg per ml hygromycin and 500 μg per ml G418. Cells were refreshed 2 or 3 days with medium containing the same concentrations of selecting agents. Fourteen days after seeding, the concentrations were adjusted to 250 μg per ml G418 and 50 μg per ml hygromycin. Twenty-two days after seeding, a large number of colonies had grown to an extent in which it was possible to select, pick and subculture. Approximately 300 separate colonies were selected and picked from the 10 cm dishes and subsequently grown via 96-wells and/or 24-wells via 6-well plates to T25 flasks. In this stage, cells are frozen (4 vials per subcultured colony) and production levels of recombinant UBS-54 mAb are determined in the supernatant using the ELISA described in Example 26. 
 CHO-dhfr cells are seeded in DMEM plus 10% FBS including hypoxanthine and thymidine in tissue culture dishes (10 cm diameter) with approximately 1 million cells per dish and are kept overnight under normal conditions and used for a co-transfection the next day with pUBS-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) and pUBS-Light2001/DHFRwt under standard protocols using Lipofectamine. Medium is replaced with fresh medium after a few hours and split to different densities to allow the cells to adjust to the selection medium when stable integration is taking place without a possible outgrowth of non-transfected cells. Colonies are first selected on hygromycin resistance and, subsequently, MTX is added to select for double integrations of the 2 plasmids in these subcultured cell lines. 
 Transfections as described for pUBS-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) and pUBS-Light2001/Neo are performed with pUBS2-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) and pUBS2-Light2001/Neo in PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells and selection is performed with either subsequent incubation with hygromycin followed by G418 oras described above with a combination of both selection reagents. CHO-dhfr cells are transfected with pUBS2-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) and pUBS2-Light2001/DHFRwt as described herein and selection is performed in a sequential way in which cells are first selected with hygromycin, after which an integration of the light chain vector is controlled by selection on MTX. 
 Furthermore, PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells are also used for transfections with pUBS-3000/Hyg(−) and pUBS2-3000/Hyg(−), while CHO-dhfr cells are transfected with pUBS-3000/DHFRwt and pUBS2-3000/DHFRwt, after which a selection and further amplification of the integrated plasmids are performed by increasing the MTX concentration. In the case of the pcDNAs3000 plasmids, an equal number of mRNAs of both the heavy and light chain is expected, while in the case of two separate vectors, it is unclear whether a correct equilibrium is achieved between the two subunits of the immunoglobulin. 
 Transfections are also being performed on PER.C6™, PER.C6™/E2A and CHO-dhfr cells with expression vectors described in Examples 4 and 5 to obtain stable cell lines that express the humanized IgG1 mAb CAMPATH-1H and the humanized IgG1 mAb 15C5 respectively. 
 Example 21 
 Sub-culturing of Transfected Cells 
 From PER.C6™ cells transfected with pUBS-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) and PUBS-Light2001/Neo, approximately 300 colonies that were growing in medium containing Hygromycin and G418 were generally grown subsequently in 96-well, 24-well and 6-well plates in their respective medium plus their respective selecting agents. Cells that were able to grow in 24-well plates were checked for mAb production by using the ELISA described in Example 26. If cells scored positively, at least one vial of each clone was frozen and stored, and cells were subsequently tested and subcultured. The selection of a good producer clone is based on high expression, culturing behavior and viability. To allow checks for long term viability, amplification of the integrated plasmids and suspension growth during extended time periods, best producer clones are frozen, of which a number of the best producers of each cell line are selected for further work. Similar experiments are being performed on CHO-dhfr cells transfected with different plasmids and PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells that were transfected with other combinations of heavy and light chains and other combinations of selection markers. 
 Example 22 
 mAb Production in Bioreactors 
 The best UBS-54 producing transfected cell line of PER.C6™ cells are brought into suspension by washing the cells in PBS and then culturing the cells in JRH ExCell 525 medium, first in small culture flasks and subsequently in roller bottles, and scaled up to 1 to 2 liter fermentors. Cells are kept on hygromycin and G418 selection until it is proven that integration of the vectors is stable over longer periods of time. This is done when cells are still in their attached phase or when cells are in suspension. 
 Suspension growing mAb producing PER.C6™ cells are generally cultured with hygromycin and G418 and used for inoculation of bioreactors from roller bottles. Production yields, functionality and quality of the produced mAb is checked after growth of the cells in perfused bioreactors and in fed batch settings. 
 A. Perfusion in a 2 Liter Bioreactor. 
 Cells are seeded in suspension medium in the absence of selecting agents at a concentration of approximately 0.5×10 6  cells per ml and perfusion is started after a number of days when cell density reaches approximately 2 to 3×10 6  cells per ml. The perfusion rate is generally 1 volume per 24 hours with a bleed of approximately 250 ml per 24 hours. In this setting, cells stay normally at a constant density of approximately 5×10 6  cells per ml and a viability of almost 95% for over a month. The mAb production levels are determined on a regular basis. 
 B. Fed Batch in a 2 Liter Bioreactor. 
 In an initial run, mAb producing PER.C6™ suspension cells that are grown on roller bottles are used to inoculate a 2 liter bioreactor in the absence of selecting agents to a density of 0.3 to 0.5 million cells per ml in a working volume of 300 to 500 ml and are left to grow until the viability of the cell culture drops to 10%. As a culture lifetime standard, it is determined at what day after inoculation the viable cell density drops beneath 0.5 million cells per ml. Cells normally grow until a density of 2 to 3 million cells per ml, after which the medium components become limiting and the viability decreases. Furthermore, it is determined how much of the essential components, such as glucose and amino acids in the medium are being consumed by the cells. Next to that, it is determined what amino acids are being produced and what other products are accumulating in the culture. Depending on this, concentrated feeding samples are being produced that are added at regular time points to increase the culture lifetime and thereby increase the concentration of the mAb in the supernatant. In another setting, 10× concentrated medium samples are developed that are added to the cells at different time points and that also increase the viability of the cells for a longer period of time, finally resulting in a higher concentration of mAb in the supernatant. 
 Example 23 
 Transient Expression of Humanized Recombinant Monoclonal Antibodies 
 The correct combinations of the UBS-54 heavy and light chain genes containing vectors were used in transient transfection experiments in PER.C6™ cells. For this, it is not important which selection marker is introduced in the plasmid backbone, because the expression lasts for a short period (2-3 days). The transfection method is generally lipofectamine, although other cationic lipid compounds for efficient transfection can be used. Transient methods are extrapolated from T25 flasks settings to at least 10-liter bioreactors. Approximately 3.5 million PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells were seeded at  day  1 in a T25 flask. At  day  2, cells were transfected with, at most, 8 μg plasmid DNA using lipofectamine and refreshed after 2-4 hours and left for 2 days. Then, the supernatant was harvested and antibody titers were measured in a quantitative ELISA for human IgG1 immunoglobulins (CLB, see also Example 26). Levels of total human antibody in this system are approximately 4.8 μg/million seeded cells for PER.C6™ and 11.1 μg/million seeded cells for PER.C6™/E2A cells. To determine how much of the produced antibody is of full size and built up from two heavy and two light chains, as well as the expression levels of the heavy and/or light chain alone and connected by disulfide bridges, control ELISAs recognizing the sub-units separately are developed. Different capturing and staining antibody combinations are used that all detect human(ized) IgG1 sub-units. Supernatants of PER.C6™ cell transfectants (transfected with control vectors or pUBS-Heavy2000/Hyg(−) and pUBS-Light2001/DHFRwt) were checked for full sized mAb production ( FIG. 24 ). Samples were treated with and without DTT, wherein one can distinguish between full sized mAb (nonreduced) and heavy and light chain separately (reduced). As expected, the heavy chain is only secreted when the light chain is co-expressed and most of the antibody is of full size. 
 Example 24 
 Scale-up System for Transient Transfections 
 PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof are used for scaling up the DNA transfections system. According to Wurm and Bernard (1999), transfections on suspension cells can be performed at 1-10 liter set-ups in which yields of 1-10 mg/l (0.1-1 pg/cell/day) of recombinant protein have been obtained using electroporation. 
 A need exists for a system in which this can be well controlled and yields might be higher, especially for screening of large numbers of proteins and toxic proteins that cannot be produced in a stable setting. Moreover, since cell lines such as CHO are heavily affected by apoptosis-inducing agents such as lipofectamine, the art teaches that there is a need for cells that are resistant to this. Since PER.C6™ cells are hardly affected by transfection methods, it seems that PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof are useful for these purposes. One to 50 liter suspension cultures of PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells growing in adjusted medium to support transient DNA transfections using purified plasmid DNA are used for electroporation or other methods, performing transfection with the same expression plasmids. After several hours, the transfection medium is removed and replaced by fresh medium without serum. The recombinant protein is allowed to accumulate in the supernatant for several days, after which the supernatant is harvested and all the cells are removed. The supernatant is used for down stream processing to purify the recombinant protein. 
 Example 25 
 Scale Up System for Viral Infections 
 Heavy and light chain cDNAs of the antibodies described in Examples 3, 4 and 5 are cloned into recombinant adenoviral adapter plasmids separately and in combination. The combinations are made to ensure an equal expression level for both heavy and light chains of the antibody to be formed. When heavy and light chains are cloned separately, viruses are being produced and propagated separately, of which the infectability and the concentration of virus particles are determined and finally co-infected into PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof to produce recombinant mAbs in the supernatant. Production of adapter vectors, recombinant adenoviruses and mAbs is as described for recombinant EPO (see, Examples 13 and 14). 
 Example 26 
 Development of an ELISA for Determination of Human mAbs 
 Greiner microlon plates # 655061 were coated with an anti-human IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody (Pharmingen #M032196 0.5) with 100 μl per well in a concentration of 4 μg per ml in PBS. Incubation was performed overnight at 4° C. or for 90 minutes at 37° C. Then, wells were washed three times with 0.05% Tween/PBS (400 μl per well) and subsequently blocked with 100  μl  5% milk dissolved in 0.05% Tween/PBS per well for 30 minutes at 37° C. and then, the plate was washed three times with 400 μl 0.05% Tween/PBS per well. As a standard, a purified human IgG1 antibody was used (Sigma, #108H9265) diluted in 0.5% milk/0.05% Tween/PBS in dilutions ranging from 50 to 400 ng per ml. Per well, 100 μl of the standard was incubated for 1 hour at 37° C. Then, the plate was washed three times with 400 μl per well 0.05% Tween/PBS. As the second antibody, a biotin-labeled mouse monoclonal anti-human IgG1 antibody was used (Pharmingen #M045741) in a concentration of 2 ng per ml. Per well, 100 μl of this antibody was added and incubated for 1 hour at 37° C. and the wells were washed three times with 400 μl 0.05% Tween/PBS. 
 Subsequently, conjugate was added: 100 μl per well of a 1:1000 dilution of Streptavidin-HRP solution (Pharmingen #M045975) and incubated for 1 hour at 37° C., and the plate was again washed three times with 400 μl per well with 0.05% Tween/PBS. 
 One ABTS tablet (Boehringer Mannheim #600191-01) was dissolved in 50 ml ABTS buffer (Boehringer Mannheim #60328501) and 100 μl of this solution was added to each well and incubated for 1 hour at RT or 37° C. Finally, the OD was measured at 405 nm. Supernatant samples from cells transfected with mAb encoding vectors were generally dissolved and diluted in 0.5% milk/0.05% Tween/PBS. If samples did not fit with the linear range of the standard curve, other dilutions were used. 
 Example 27 
 Production of Influenza HA and NA Proteins in a Human Cell for Recombinant Subunit Vaccines 
 cDNA sequences of genes encoding hemagluttinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) proteins of known and regularly appearing novel influenza virus strains are being determined and generated by PCR with primers for convenient cloning into pcDNA2000, pcDNA2001, pcDNA2002 and pcDNAs3000 vectors (see, Example 1). Subsequently, these resulting expression vectors are being transfected into PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof for stable and transient expression of the recombinant proteins to result in the production of recombinant HA and NA proteins that are, therefore, produced in a complete standardized way with human cells under strict and well-defined conditions. Cells are allowed to accumulate these recombinant HA and NA proteins for a standard period of time. When the pcDNAs3000 vector is used, it is possible to clone both cDNAs simultaneously and have the cells produce both proteins at the same time. From separate or combined cultures, the proteins are being purified following standard techniques and final HA and NA titers are being determined and activities of the proteins are checked by persons skilled in the art. Then, the purified recombinant proteins are used for vaccination studies and finally used for large-scale vaccination purposes. 
 The HA1 fragment of the swine influenza virus A/swine/Oedenrode/7C/96 (Genbank accession number AF092053) was obtained by PCR using a forward primer with the following sequence: 5′ ATT GGC GCG CCA CCA TGA AGA CTA TCA TTG CTT  TGA GCT AC  3′ (SEQ ID NO:30), and with a reverse primer with the following sequence: 5′ GAT GCT AGC TCA TCT AGT TTG TTT TTC TGG  TAT ATT CCG  3′ (SEQ ID NO:31). The resulting 1.0 kb PCR product was digested with AscI and NheI restriction enzymes and ligated with a AscI and NheI digested and purified pcDNA2001/DHFRwt vector, resulting in pcDNA2001/DHFRwt-swHA1. Moreover, the HA2 fragment of the same virus was amplified by PCR using the same forward primer as described for HA1 and another reverse primer with the following sequence: 5′ GAT GCT AGC TCA GTC TTT GTA TCC TGA CTT CAG  TTC AAC ACC  3′ (SEQ ID NO:32). The resulting 1.6 kb HA2 PCR product was cloned in an identical way as described for HA1, resulting in pcDNA2001/DHFRwt-swHA2. 
 Example 28 
 Integration of cDNAs Encoding Post-translational Modifying Enzymes 
 Since the levels of recombinant protein production in stable and transiently transfected and infected PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells are extremely high and since a higher expression level is usually obtained upon DHFR dependent amplification due to increase of MTX concentration, an “out-titration” of the endogenous levels of enzymes that are involved in post-translational modifications might occur. 
 Therefore, cDNAs encoding human enzymes involved in different kinds of post-translational modifications and processes such as glycosylation, phosphorylation, carboxylation, folding and trafficking are being overexpressed in PER.C6™ and PER.C6™/E2A cells to enable a more functional recombinant product to be produced to extreme levels in small and large settings. It was shown that CHO cells can be engineered in which an alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase was introduced to enhance the expression and bioactivity of tPA and human erythropoietin (Zhang et al. 1998; Minch et al. 1995; Jenkins et al. 1998). Other genes such as  beta  1,4-galactosyltransferase were also introduced into insect and CHO cells to improve the N-linked oligosaccharide branch structures and to enhance the concentration of sialic acids at the terminal residues (Weikert et al. 1999; Hollister et al. 1998). PER.C6™ cells are modified by integration of  cDNAs encoding alpha  2,3-sialyltransferase,  alpha  2,6-sialyltransferase and  beta  1,4-galactosyltransferase proteins to further increase the sialic acid content of recombinant proteins produced on this human cell line. 
 Example 29 
 Inhibition of Apoptosis by Overexpression of Adenovirus E1B in CHO-dhfr Cells 
 It is known that CHO cells, overexpressing recombinant exogenous proteins, are highly sensitive for apoptotic signals, resulting in a generally higher death rate among these stable producing cell lines as compared to the wild type or original cells from which these cells were derived. Moreover, CHO cells die of apoptotic effects when agents such as lipofectamine are being used in transfection studies. Thus, CHO cells have a great disadvantage in recombinant protein production in the sense that the cells are very easily killed by apoptosis due to different reasons. Since it is known that the E1B gene of adenovirus has anti-apoptotic effects (White et al. 1992; Yew and Berk 1992), stable CHO-dhfr cells that express both heavy and light chains of the described antibodies (see, Examples 3, 4 and 5) are being transfected with adenovirus E1B cDNAs to produce a stable or transient expression of the E1B proteins to finally ensure a lower apoptotic effect in these cells and thereby increase the production rate of the recombinant proteins. Transiently transfected cells and stably transfected cells are compared to wild type CHO-dhfr cells in FACS analyses for cell death due to the transfection method or due to the fact that they overexpress the recombinant proteins. 
 Stable CHO cell lines are generated in which the adenovirus E1B proteins are overexpressed. Subsequently, the apoptotic response due to effects of, for instance, Lipofectamine in these stable E1B producing CHO cells is compared to the apoptotic response of the parental cells that did not receive the E1B gene. These experiments are executed using FACS analyses and commercially available kits that can determine the rate of apoptosis. 
 Example 30 
 Inhibition of Apoptosis by Overexpression of Adenovirus E1B in Human Cells 
 PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof do express the E1A and E1B genes of adenovirus. Other human cells, such as A549 cells, are being used to stably overexpress adenovirus E1B to determine the anti-apoptotic effects of the presence of the adenovirus E1B gene as described for CHO cells (see, Example 29). Most cells do respond to transfection agents such as lipofectamine or other cationic lipids, resulting in massive apoptosis and finally resulting in low concentrations of the recombinant proteins that are secreted, simply due to the fact that only few cells survive the treatment. Stable E1B overexpressing cells are compared to the parental cell lines in their response to overexpression of toxic proteins or apoptosis inducing proteins and their response to transfection agents such as lipofectamine. 
 Example 31 
 Generation of PER.C6™ Derived Cell Lines Lacking a Functional DHFR Protein 
 PER.C6™ cells are used to knock out the DHFR gene using different systems to obtain cell lines that can be used for amplification of the exogenous integrated DHFR gene that is encoded on the vectors that are described in Examples 1 to 5 or other DHFR expressing vectors. PER.C6™ cells are screened for the presence of the different chromosomes and are selected for a low copy number of the chromosome that carries the human DHFR gene. Subsequently, these cells are used in knock-out experiments in which the open reading frame of the DHFR gene is disrupted and replaced by a selection marker. To obtain a double knock-out cell line, both alleles are removed via homologous recombination using two different selection markers or by other systems as, for instance, described for CHO cells (Urlaub et al. 1983). 
 Other systems are also applied in which the functionality of the DHFR protein is lowered or completely removed, for instance, by the use of anti-sense RNA or via RNA/DNA hybrids, in which the gene is not removed or knocked out, but the down stream products of the gene are disturbed in their function. 
 Example 32 
 Long-term Production of Recombinant Proteins Using Protease and Neuraminidase Inhibitors 
 Stable clones described in Example 8 are used for long-term expression in the presence and absence of MTX, serum and protease inhibitors. When stable or transfected cells are left during a number of days to accumulate recombinant human EPO protein, a flattening curve instead of a straight increase is observed, which indicates that the accumulated EPO is degraded in time. This might be an inactive process due to external factors such as light or temperature. It might also be that specific proteases that are produced by the viable cells or that are released upon lysis of dead cells digest the recombinant EPO protein. Therefore, an increasing concentration of CuSO 4  is added to the culture medium after transfection and on the stable producing cells to detect a more stable production curve. Cells are cultured for several days and the amount of EPO is determined at different timepoints. CuSO 4  is a known inhibitor of protease activity, which can be easily removed during down stream processing and EPO purification. The most optimal concentration of CuSO 4  is used to produce recombinant human EPO protein after transient expression upon DNA transfection and viral infections. Furthermore, the optimal concentration of CuSO 4  is also used in the production of EPO on the stable clones. In the case of EPO in which the presence of terminal sialic acids is important to ensure a long circulation half-life of the recombinant protein, it is necessary to produce highly sialylated EPO. Since living cells produce neuraminidases that can be secreted upon activation by stress factors, it is likely that produced EPO lose their sialic acids due to these stress factors and produced neuraminidases. To prevent clipping off of sialic acids, neuraminidase inhibitors are added to the medium to result in a prolonged attachment of sialic acids to the EPO that is produced. 
 Example 33 
 Stable Expression of Recombinant Proteins in Human Cells Using the Amplifiable Glutamine Synthetase System 
 PER.C6™ cells and derivatives thereof are being used to stably express recombinant proteins using the glutamine synthetase (GS) system. First, cells are being checked for their ability to grow in glutamine free medium. If cells cannot grow in glutamine free medium, this means that these cells do not express enough GS, finally resulting in death of the cells. The GS gene can be integrated into expression vectors as a selection marker (as is described for the DHFR gene) and can be amplified by increasing the methionine sulphoximine (MSX) concentration resulting in overexpression of the recombinant protein of interest, since the entire stably integrated vector will be co-amplified as was shown for DHFR. The GS gene expression system became feasible after a report of Sanders et al. (1984) and a comparison was made between the DHFR selection system and GS by Cockett et al. (1990). The production of recombinant mAbs using GS was first described by Bebbington et al. (1992). 
 The GS gene is cloned into the vector backbones described in Example 1 or cDNAs encoding recombinant proteins and heavy and light chains of mAbs are cloned into the available vectors carrying the GS gene. Subsequently, these vectors are transfected into PER.C6™ cells and selected under MSX concentrations that will allow growth of cells with stable integration of the vectors. 
 Example 34 
 Production of Recombinant HIV gp120 Protein in a Human Cell 
 The cDNA encoding the highly glycosylated envelope protein gp120 from Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is determined and obtained by PCR using primers that harbor a perfect Kozak sequence in the upstream primer for proper translation initiation and convenient restriction recognition sequences for cloning into the expression vectors described in Example 1. Subsequently, this PCR product is sequenced on both strands to ensure that no PCR mistakes are being introduced. 
 The expression vector is transfected into PER.C6™ cells, derivatives thereof and CHO-dhfr cells to obtain stable producing cell lines. Differences in glycosylation between CHO-produced and PER.C6™ cells producing gp120are being determined in 2D electrophoresis experiments and subsequently in Mass Spectrometry experiments, since gp120 is a heavily glycosylated protein with mainly O-linked oligosaccharides. The recombinant protein is purified by persons skilled in the art and subsequently used for functionality and other assays. Purified protein is used for vaccination purposes to prevent HIV infections. 
 REFERENCES 
 
   
 Baldwin R. W. and V. S. Byers (1986) Monoclonal antibodies in cancer treatment.    Lancet   1, 603-605. 
 Barbas C. F., A. S. Kang, R. A. Lerner and S. J. Benkovic (1991) Assembly of combinatorial antibody libraries on phage surfaces: The gene III site.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA.  88, 7978. 
 Bebbington C. R., G. Renner, S. Thomson, D. Abrams and G. T. Yarranton (1992) High-level expression of a recombinant antibody from myeloma cells using a glutamine synthetase gene as an amplifiable selectable marker.  Bio/ technology   10, 169-175. 
 Borrebaeck C. A. K., A.-C. Malmborg and M. Ohlin (1993) Does endogenous glycosylation prevent the use of mouse monoclonal antibodies as cancer therapeutics?    Immunology Today   14, 477-479. 
 Borrebaeck C. A. K. (1999) Human monoclonal antibodies: The emperor's new clothes?  Nature Biotech.  17, 621. 
 Boshart W., F. Weber, G. Jahn, K. Dorsch-Hasler, B. Fleckenstein and W. Schaffner (1985) A very strong enhancer is located upstream of an immediate early gene of human cytomegalovirus.  Cell  41, 521-530. 
 Bruggeman M., C. Spicer, L. Buluwela, I. Rosewell, S. Barton, M. A. Surani and T. H. Rabbits (1991) Human antibody production in transgenic mice: expression from 100 kb of the human IgH locus.  Eur. J. Immunol.  21, 1323-1326. 
 Bulens F., A.-M. Vandamme, H. Bernar, L. Nelles, R. H. Lijnen and D. Collen (1991) Construction and characterization of a functional chimeric murine-human antibody directed against human fibrin fragment-D dimer.  Eur. J. Biochem.  195, 235-242. 
 Burton D. R. and C. F. Barbas III (1994) Human antibodies from combinatorial libraries.  Adv. Immunol.  57, 191-280. 
 Carter P., L. Presta, C. M. Gorman, J. B. Ridgway, D. Henner, W. L. Wong, A. M. Rowland, C. Kotts, M. E. Carver and H. M. Shephard (1992) Humanization of an anti-p185HER2 antibody for human cancer therapy.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  89, 4285-4289. 
 Clarkson T., H. R. Hoogenboom, A. Griffiths and G. Winter (1991) Making antibody fragments using phage display libraries.  Nature  353, 624. 
 Cockett M. I., C. R. Bebbington and G. T. Yarranton (1990) High level expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases in Chinese hamster ovary cells using glutamine synthetase gene amplification.  Bio/ technology   8, 662-667. 
 Crowe J. S., V. S. Hall, M. A. Smith, H. J. Cooper and J. P. Tite (1992) Humanized monoclonal antibody CAMPATH-1H: myeloma cell expression of genomic constructs, nucleotide sequence of cDNA constructs and comparison of effector mechanisms of myeloma and Chinese hamster ovary cell-derived material.  Clin. ExpH Immunol.  87, 105-110. 
 Debbas M. and E. White (1993) Wild-type p53 mediates apoptosis by E1A, which is inhibited by E1B.  Genes Dev.  7, 546-554. 
 Delorme E., T. Lorenzini, J. Giffin, F. Martin, F. Jacobsen, T. Boone and S. Elliot (1992) Role of glycosylation on the secretion and biological activity of erythropoietin.    Biochemistry   31, 9871-9876. 
 Farrow S. N., J. H. White, I. Martinou, T. Raven, K. T. Pun, C. J. Grinham, J.C. Martinou and R. Brown (1995) Cloning of a bcl-2 homologue by interaction with adenovirus E1B 19K.  Nature  374, 731-733. 
 Fishwild D. M., S. L. O'Donnell, T. Bengoechea, D. V. Hudson, F. Harding, S. L. Bernhard, D. Jones, R. M. Kay, K. M. Higgins, S. R. Schramm and N. Lonberg (1996) High-avidity human IgG kappa monoclonal antibodies from a novel strain of minilocus transgenic mice.  Nat. Biotechnol.  14, 845-851. 
 Fussenegger M., J. E. Bailey, H. Hauser and P. P. Mueller (1999) Genetic optimization of recombinant glycoprotein production by mammalian cells.  Trends Biotechn.  17, 35-42. 
 Frôdin J. E., A. K. Lefvert and H. Mellstedt (1990) Pharmacokinetics of the mouse monoclonal antibody 17-1A in cancer patients receiving various treatment schedules.  Cancer Res.  50, 4866-4871. 
 Galili U. (1993) Interaction of the natural anti-Gal antibody with alpha-galactosyl epitopes: a major obstacle for xenotransplantation in humans.  Immunol.  Today   14, 480-482. 
 Garrard L., M. Yang, M. O'Connell, R. Kelley and D. J. Henner (1991) Fab assembly and enrichment in a monovalent phage display system.  BioTechnology  9, 1373. 
 Goldwasser E., J. F. Eliason and D. Sikkema (1975) An assay for erythropoietin in vitro at the milliunit level.  Endocrinology  97, 315-23. 
 Green L. L., M. C. Hardy, C. E. Maynard-Currie, H. Tsuda, D. M. Louie, M. J. Mendez, H. Abderrahim, M. Noguchi, D. H. Smith and Y. Zeng (1994) Antigen-specific human monoclonal antibodies from mice engineered with human Ig heavy and light chain YACs.  Nat. Genet.  7, 13-21. 
 Gorman C. M., D. Gies, G. McCray and M. Huang (1989) The human cytomegalovirus major immediate early promoter can be trans-activated by adenovirus early proteins.  Virology  171, 377-385. 
 Hale G., M. J. S. Dyer, M. R. Clark, J. M. Phillips, R. Marcus, L. Reichmann, G. Winter and H. Waldmann (1988) Remission induction in non-Hodgkin lymphoma with reshaped human monoclonal antibody CAMPATH-1H.    Lancet   2, 1394-1399. 
 Hammerling U., R. Kroon, T. Wilhelmsen and L. Sjôdin (1996) in vitro bioassay for human erythropoietin based on proliferative stimulation of an erythroid cell line and analysis of carbohydrate-dependent microheterogeneity.  J. Pharm. Biomed. An.  14, 1455-1469. 
 Han J., P. Sabbatini, D. Perez, L. Rao, D. Modha and E. White (1996) The E1B 19K protein blocks apoptosis by interacting with and inhibiting the p53-inducible and death-promoting Bax protein.  Genes Dev.  10, 461-477. 
 Havenga M. J., A. B. Werner, D. Valerio and H. H. van Es (1998) Methotrexate selectable retroviral vectors for Gaucher disease.  Gene Ther.  5, 1379-1388. 
 Hollister J. R., J. H. Shaper and D. J. Jarvis (1998) Stable expression of mammalian beta1,4-galactosyltransferase extends the N-glycosylation pathway in insect cells.    Glycobiology   8, 473-480. 
 Huls G. A., I. A. F. M. Heijnen, M. E. Cuomo, J. C. Koningsberger, L. Wiegman, E. Boel, A.-R. Van der Vuurst de Vries, S. A. J. Loyson, W. Helfrich, G. P. Van Berge Henegouwen, M. Van Meijer, J. De Kruif and T. Logtenberg (1999) A recombinant, fully human monoclonal antibody with antitumor activity constructed from phage-displayed antibody fragments.  Nature Biotechnol.  17, 276-281. 
 Isaacs J. D., R. A. Watts, B. L. Hazleman, G. Hale, M. T. Keogan, S. P. Cobbold and H. Waldmann (1992) Humanized monoclonal antibody therapy for rheumatoid arthritis.  Lancet  340, 748-52. 
 Jacobovits A. (1995) Production of fully human antibodies by transgenic mice.  Curr. Opin. Biotechnol.  6, 561-566. 
 Jenkins N., R. B. Parekh and D. C. James (1996) Getting the glycosylation right: implications for the biotechnology industry.  Nat. Biotechnol.  14, 975-81. 
 Jenkins N., L. Buckberry, A. Marc and L. Monaco (1998) Genetic engineering of  alpha  2,6-sialyltransferase in recombinant CHO cells.  Biochem. Soc. Trans.  26, S115. 
 Kawashima I., H. Ozawa, M. Kotani, M. Suzuki, T. Kawano, M. Gomibuchi and T. Tai (1993) Characterization of ganglioside expression in human melanoma cells: immunological and biochemical analysis.  J. Biochem. (Tokyo)  114, 186-193. 
 Kay R., F. Takei and R. K. Humphries (1990) Expression cloning of a cDNA encoding M1/69.  J. Immunol.  145, 1952-1959. 
 Kitamura T., T. Tange, T. Terasawa, S. Chiba, T. Kuwaki, K. Miyagawa, Y.-F. Piao, K. Miyazono, A. Urabe and F. Takaku (1989) Establishment and characterization of a unique human cell line that proliferates dependently on GM-CSF, IL-3, or erythropoietin.  J. Cell. Physiol.  140, 323-334. 
 Kohler G. and C. Milstein (1975) Continuous cultures of fused cells secreting antibody of predefined specificity. Nature 256:495. 
 Krystal G., A. C. Eaves and C. J. Eaves (1981) A quantitative bioassay for erythropoietin, using mouse bone marrow.  J. Lab. Clin. Med.  97, 144-157. 
 Krystal G. (1983) A simple microassay for erythropoietin based on 3H-thymidine incorporation into spleen cells from phenylhydrazine treated mice.  ExpH Hematol.  11, 649-660. 
 Lee E. U., J. Roth and J. C. Paulson (1989) Alteration of terminal glycosylation sequences on N-linked oligosaccharides of Chinese hamster ovary cells by expression of beta- galactoside alpha  2,6-sialyltransferase.  J. Biol. Chem.  264, 13848-13855. 
 Levrero M., V. Barban, S. Manteca, A. Ballay, C. Balsamo, M. L. Avantaggiata, G. Natoli, H. Skellekens, P. Tiollais and M. Perricaudet (1991) Defective and non-defective adenovirus vectors for expression foreign genes in vitro and in vivo.    Gene   101, 195-202. 
 Lonberg N., L. D. Taylor, F. A. Harding, M. Trounstine, K. M. Higgins, S. R. Schramm, C. C. Kuo, R. Mashayekh, K. Wymore and J. G. McCabe (1994) Antigen-specific human antibodies from mice comprising four distinct genetic modifications.  Nature  368, 856-859. 
 Lonberg N. and D. Huszar (1995) Human antibodies from transgenic mice.  Int. Rev. Immunol.  13, 65-93. 
 Lowder J. N., T. C. Meeker and R. Levy (1985) Monoclonal antibody therapy of lymphoid malignancy.  Cancer Surv.  4, 359-375. 
 McCafferty J., A. D. Griffiths, G. Winter and D. J. Chiswell (1990) Phage antibodies: filamentous phage displaying antibody variable domains.  Nature  348, 552. 
 Mellstedt H., J. E. Frodin, G. Masucci, P. Ragnhammar, J. Fagerberg, A. L. Hjelm, J. Shetye, P. Wersall and A. Osterborg (1991) The therapeutic use of monoclonal antibodies in colorectal carcinoma.  Semin. Oncol.  18, 462-477. 
 Mendez M. J., L. L. Green, J. R. Corvalan, X. C. Jia, C. E. Maynard-Currie, X. D. Yang, M. L. Gallo, D. M. Louie, D. V. Lee, K. L. Erickson, J. Luna, C. M. Roy, H. Abderrahim, F. Kirschenbaum, M. Noguchi, D. H. Smith, A. Fukushima, J. F. Hales, S. Klapholz, M. H. Finer, C. G. Davis, K. M. Zsebo and A. Jakobovits (1997) Functional transplant of megabase human immunoglobulin loci recapitulates human antibody response in mice.  Nat. Genet.  15, 146-156. 
 Minch S. L., P. T. Kallio and J. E. Bailey (1995) Tissue plasminogen activator coexpressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells with alpha(2,6)-sialyltransferase contains NeuAc alpha(2,6)Gal beta(1,4)Glc-N-AcR linkages.  Biotechn. Prog.  11, 348-351. 
 Morrison et al. Chimeric human antibody molecules: mouse antigen-binding domains with human constant region domains.  Proc. Nat'l Acad. Sci . ( USA ), 81:6851-55 (1984). 
 Muchmore E. A., M. Milewski, A. Varki and S. Diaz (1989) Biosynthesis of N-glycolyneuraminic acid. The primary site of hydroxylation of N-acetylneuraminic acid is the cytosolic sugar nucleotide pool.  J. Biol. Chem.  264, 20216-20223. 
 Nadler L., P. Stashenko, R. Hardy, W. Kaplan, L. Burton, D. W. Kufe, K. H. Antman and S. F. Schlossman (1980) Serotherapy of a patient with a monoclonal antibody directed against a human lymphoma-associated antigen.  Cancer Res.  40, 3147-3154. 
 Oi V. T., S. L. Morrison, L. A. Herzenberg and P. Berg (1983) Immunoglobulin gene expression in transformed lymphoid cells.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. UHSHA.  1983 80, 825-829. 
 Olive D. M., W. Al-Mulla, M. Simsek, S. Zarban and W. al-Nakib (1990) The human cytomegalovirus immediate early enhancer-promoter is responsive to activation by the adenovirus-5 13S E1A gene.  Arch. Virol.  112, 67-80. 
 Owens R. J. and R. J. Young (1994) The genetic engineering of monoclonal antibodies.  J. Immunol. Methods  168, 149-165. 
 Reff M. E., K. Carner, K. S. Chambers, P. C. Chinn, J. E. Leonard, R. Raab, R. A. Newman, N. Hanna and D. R. Anderson (1994) Depletion of B cells in vivo by a chimeric mouse human monoclonal antibody to CD20.  Blood  83, 435-445. 
 Reichmann L., M. Clark, H. Waldmann and G. Winter (1988) Reshaping human antibodies for therapy.  Nature  322, 323-327. 
 Riethmuller G., G. Riethmuller, E. Schneider-Gadicke, G. Schlimok, W. Schmiegel, R. Raab, K. Hoffken, R. Gruber, H. Pichlmaier, H. Hirche and R. Pichlmayr, et al. (1994) Randomized trial of monoclonal antibody for adjuvant therapy of resected Dukes' C colorectal carcinoma.  Lancet  343, 1177-1183. 
 Rother R. P. and S. P. Squinto (1996) The alpha-Galactosyl epitope: A sugar coating that makes viruses and cells unpalatable.  Cell  86, 185-188. 
 Sanders P. G. and R. H. Wilson (1984) Amplification and cloning of the Chinese hamster glutamine synthetase gene.  EMBO J.  3, 65-71. 
 Sandhu J. S. (1992) Protein Engineering of antibodies.    Critical Rev. Biotechnology   12, 437-462. 
 Shawler D. L., R. M. Bartholomew, L. M. Smith and R. O. Dillman (1985) Human immune response to multiple injections of murine monoclonal IgG.  J. Immunol.  135, 1530. 
 Takeuchi M., N. Inoue, T. W. Strickland, M. Kubota, M. Wada, R. Shimizu, S. Hoshi, H. Kozutsumi, S. Takasaki and A. Kobata (1989) Relationship between sugar chain structure and biological activity of recombinant human erythropoietin produced in Chinese hamster ovary cells.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA.  86, 7819-7822. 
 Urlaub G., E. Kas, A. M. Carothers and L. A. Chasin (1983) Deletion of the diploid dihydrofolate reductase locus from cultured mammalian cells.  Cell  33, 405-412. 
 Vandamme A.-M., F. Bulens, H. Bernar, L. Nelles, R. H. Lijnen and D. Collen (1990) Construction and characterization of a recombinant murine monoclonal antibody directed against human fibrin fragment-D dimer.  Eur. J. Biochem.  192, 767-775. 
 Vaswani S. K. and R. G. Hamilton (1998) Humanized antibodies as potential therapeutic drugs.  Ann. Allergy, Asthma and Immunol.  81, 105-115. 
 Vonach B., B. Hess and C. Leist (1998) Construction of a novel CHO cell line coexpressing human glucosyltransferases and fusion PSGL-1-immunoglobulin G. In: O.-W. Merten et al. (eds), New developments and new applications in animal cell technology, ppH 181-183, Kluwer Academic Publishers. 
 Weikert S., D. Papac, J. Briggs, D. Cowfer, S. Tom, M. Gawlitzek, J. Lofgren, S. Mehta, V. Chisholm, N. Modi, S. Eppler, K. Carroll, S. Chamow, D. Peers, P. Berman and L. Krummen (1999) Engineering Chinese hamster ovary cells to maximize sialic acid content of recombinant glycoproteins.    Nature Biotechnology   17, 1116-1121. 
 White E., P. Sabbatini, M. Debbas, W. S. Wold, D. I. Kusher and L. R. Gooding (1992) The 19-kilodalton adenovirus E1B transforming protein inhibits programmed cell death and prevents cytolysis by tumor necrosis factor alpha.  Mol. Cell. Biol.  12, 2570-2580. 
 Winter G., A. D. Griffiths, R. E. Hawkins and H. R. Hoogenboom (1994) Making antibodies by phage display technology.  Annu. Rev. Immunol.  12, 433-455. 
 Wurm F. and A. Bernard (1999) Large-scale transient expression in mammalian cells for recombinant protein production.  Curr. Opin. Biotechnol.  10, 156-159. 
 Yamaguchi K., K. Akai, G. Kawanishi, M. Ueda, S. Masuda and R. Sasaki (1991) Effects of site-directed removal of N-glycosylation sites in human erythropoietin on its production and biological properties.  J. Biol. Chem.  266, 20434-20439. 
 Yew P. R. and A. J. Berk (1992) Inhibition of p53 transactivation required for transformation by adenovirus early 1B protein.  Nature  357, 82-85. 
 Zhang X., S. H. Lok and O. L. Kom (1998) Stable expression of human alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase in Chinese hamster ovary cells: functional consequences for human erythropoietin expression and bioactivity.  Biochem. Biophys. Acta.  27, 441-452.
 
Tables: Yields of Recombinant EPO
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 1 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Summary of methotrexate (MTX) killing of PER.C6 ™ and PER.C6 ™/E2A 
 
 
 cells after 6 and 15 days of incubation with different MTX concentrations. Cells were seeded 
 
 
 at  day  0 and incubations with MTX started at  day  1 and continued for 6 days. Then, 
 
 
 confluency (%) was scored and the medium was replaced by fresh medium plus MTX and 
 
 
 incubation was continued for another 9 days, after which confluency (%) was scored again 
 
 
 (day 15). 
 
 
 
 
   
 0 
 1 
 5 
 10 
 25 
 50 
 100 
 250 
 500 
 1000 
 2500 
 nM 
 MTX 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PER.C6 ™ 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 cells 
 
 
 1E5 cells/ well     day    6 
 70 
 70 
 70 
 60 
 <5 
 <1 
 0.5 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 % 
 confluency 
 
 
 6-well plate 
 day 15 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 <10 
 <5 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 % 
 confluency 
 
 
 PER.C6 ™/ 
 
 
 E2A cells 
 
 
 1E5 cells/ well     day    6 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 <100 
 5 
 5 
 4 
 1 
 <1 
 <1 
 % 
 confluency 
 
 
 6-well plate 
 day 15 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 <10 
 <5 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 % 
 confluency 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Attached PER.C6 ™ and PER.C6 ™/E2A cell lines that stably 
 
 
 express recombinant human EPO. Cell lines were generated by 
 
 
 stable integration and expression of pEPO2000/DHFRwt (FIG. 5). 
 
 
 Production levels were determined in the supernatant, after growth 
 
 
 of 4 days in a T25 flask setting in the presence of 100 nM MTX. 
 
 
 
 
   
 ELISA units/1E6 seeded cells/day 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 PER.C6 ™ cell lines 
   
 
 
   
 P3 
 735 
 
 
   
   P5   
 0 
 
 
   
 P7 
 1733 
 
 
   
 P8 
 2522 
 
 
   
 P9 
 3839 
 
 
   
   P13   
 0 
 
 
   
   P15   
 0 
 
 
   
 P42 
 <1 
 
 
   
 PER.C6 ™/E2A cell lines 
 
 
   
 E17 
 325 
 
 
   
 E55 
 1600 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 3 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Amplification rate of endogenous and integrated DHFR DNA. The intensities of the 
 
 
 hyridizing bands in the Southern blot from FIG. 19 were measured in a 
 
 
 phospho-imager and corrected for background levels to finally calculate the 
 
 
 approximate amplification rates of the endogenous and the integrated DHFR genes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 E1 probe 
 integrated dhfr 
 amplification 
 endogenous  dhfr     amplification 
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 P8               
 
 
 
 
  100 nM 
 719624 
 3375 
   
 18649 
   
 
 
  800 nM 
 913578 
 2976 
 x 0.882 
 45283 
 x 2.428 
 
 
 1800 nM 
 831952 
 2950 
 x 0.874 
 81506 
 x 4.371 
 
 
 
 
 P9 
 
 
 
 
  100 nM 
 804142 
 16606 
   
 31161 
   
 
 
 1800 nM 
 842268 
 14430 
 x 0.869 
 69542 
 x 2.232 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 4 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 EPO yields in transient DNA transfections. Yields per million seeded 
 
 
 cells were determined with an EPO ELISA on supernatants from 
 
 
 PER.C6 ™, PER.C6 ™/E2A and CHO cells that were 
 
 
 transfected with pEPO2000/DHFRwt expression vector in the absence 
 
 
 or presence of Fetal Bovine Serum at different incubation temperatures, 
 
 
 as described in Example 12. 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 EPO yields 
 
 
 Cell line 
 ± FBS 
 Temp. 
 (ELISA units/1E6 cells/day) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 PER.C6 ™/E2A 
 + 
 39 C. 
 3100 
 
 
 PER.C6 ™/ E2A     −     
 39 C. 
 2600 
 
 
 PER.C6 ™ 
 + 
 37 C. 
 750 
 
 
 PER.C6 ™ 
 − 
 37 C. 
 590 
 
 
 CHO 
 + 
 37 C. 
 190 
 
 
 CHO 
 − 
 37 C. 
 90 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 5 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 EPO yields obtained after viral infections. Yields per million 
 
 
 seeded cells were determined with an EPO ELISA on supernatants 
 
 
 from PER.C6 ™ cells that were infected with recombinant 
 
 
 IG.Ad5.AdApt.EPO.dE2A adenovirus as described in Example 14. Two 
 
 
 different batches of the virus were used with different vp/IU 
 
 
 ratios (330 and 560) in two different settings (roller bottle 
 
 
 suspension cultures and 6-wells attached cultures). 
 
 
 
 
 moi 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 (virus 
 ratio 
 culture 
   
 EPO yields 
 
 
 particles 
 (virus particles/ 
 medium 
 refresh- 
 (ELISA units/ 
 
 
 per cell) 
 infectious units) 
 conditions 
 ment 
 1E6 cells/day) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 200 
 330 
   roller     JRH 
 day    3 
 240 
 
 
   
   
   bottle   
 
 
 200 
 330 
 roller 
 JRH 
 none 
 190 
 
 
   
   
   bottle   
 
 
 20 
 330 
   roller     JRH 
 day    3 
 80 
 
 
   
   
   bottle   
 
 
 20 
 330 
 roller 
 JRH 
 none 
 70 
 
 
   
   
   bottle   
 
 
 200 
 560 
 6-wells 
 DMEM + 
 every 
 60 
 
 
   
   
   
 FBS 
 day 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
