
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
 This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/549,463, filed Apr. 14, 2000, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,855,544 B1, the contents of the entirety of which is incorporated herein by this reference, which U.S. application Ser. No. 09/549,463 claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60/129,452, filed Apr. 15, 1999. The instant application is also a continuation-in-part of co-pending PCT International Patent Application No. PCT/EP2003/007690, filed on Jul. 15, 2003, designating the United States of America, and published, in English, as International Publication No. WO 2004/009618A2 on Jan. 29, 2004, which International Patent Application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/397,066, filed Jul. 18, 2002. The instant application is also a continuation-in-part of co-pending International Patent Application No. PCT/EP03/50201, filed May 27, 2003, designating the United States of America. 
 TECHNICAL FIELD 
 The invention relates to the field of recombinant protein production. More particularly, the invention relates to the production of immunoglobulins of class A (IgA) in recombinant mammalian host cells. 
 BACKGROUND 
 Immunoglobulin molecules may be one of five classes based on amino acid sequence of the constant region of the molecule. These classes are IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD and IgE. Each class has different biological roles based on class-specific properties (Roitt, I., Brostoff, J., Make, D. (2001),  Immunology,  6 th  edition, pub. Mosby). 
 IgA is the first line of immune defense on mucosal surfaces where it is produced at approximately 3-5 g/day. Furthermore it is present in serum at around 3 mg/ml, and as such is the most abundantly produced immunoglobulin. One IgA monomer comprises two heavy chains and two light chains. Light chains may be of the kappa or lambda class, and are shared with other immunoglobulin classes. The heavy chains of IgA consist of an N-terminal variable region, followed by a constant region, a hinge region, and then two additional constant regions. At the C-terminus there is a tail-piece which has a function in dimerization of the molecule. IgA is found as two different isoforms, IgA1 and IgA2; the main difference in these isotypes is found in the hinge region, where IgA2 lacks a proline-rich region which in IgA1 is susceptible to bacterial protease activity. IgA1 is the predominant isotype in serum, whereas IgA2 is mainly produced by cells of the lamina propria where it is secreted on to mucosal surfaces. IgA2 is further divided into IgA(m)1 and IgA(m)2, depending on the nature of the disulphide linkage of heavy and light chains (Chintalacharuvu and Morrison, 1999). 
 Plasma IgA is found predominantly as a monomeric species, but mucosal IgA exists primarily in a dimeric form. A 15 kDa J-chain binds to the molecule, stabilizing the dimeric form, and upon secretion to the mucosal surface a 50-90 kDa secretory component becomes complexed to the molecule. This protects the IgA from degradation on the luminal surface (Johansen et al., 2000, 2001). 
 The IgA1 hinge region includes three to five O-linked glycans, and the heavy chain includes two N-linked glycans (Mattu et al., 1998; Novak et al., 2000). The IgA2 subclass contains an additional two or three N-linked glycans. The role these glycans play in protein stability or effector function is not clear. 
 IgG1 does not bind neutrophils with a high affinity, and therefore is not proficient in neutrophil activation. IgA exerts its biological effects by a variety of mechanisms (Dechant and Valerius, 2001). It binds to the FcαRI receptor (CD89), which is expressed on neutrophils, eosinophils, monocytes/macrophages, though not on NK cells. Activation of FcαRI causes responses such as the oxidative burst and degranulation, but is also important in the triggering of phagocytosis. Neutrophils are the most prevalent lymphocytes in the blood and when activated are a powerful tool to combat infection. A second mechanism by which IgA exerts a response is by directly binding to and neutralizing pathogens at mucosal surfaces, an effect enhanced by the dimeric nature of the IgA. Additionally, a mechanism by which antibodies are thought to eliminate target cells is by binding to, and often cross-linking, cell surface receptors (Ghetie et al., 1997; Tutt et al., 1998; Longo, 2002). This can lead to activation of signaling pathways resulting in arrest of cell growth or apoptosis. IgA does not appear to activate complement, but the other effector functions make it a potentially valuable adjunct to IgG in the clinical treatment of disease. 
 Few studies have been performed to test the value of IgAs as therapeutics (reviewed in Dechant and Valerius, 2001; Corthesy, 2002), in part because murine IgA does not bind the human FcαRI. Some studies have been performed which demonstrate IgA activity against infectious disease (Vidarsson et al., 2001; Spriel et al., 1999), and a few studies to look at cancer immunotherapy (Huls et al., 1999a; van Egmond et al., 2001). 
 There is also little data in the literature regarding IgA production in cell lines (reviewed in Chintalacharuvu and Morrison, 1999; Yoo et al., 2002). There is little information regarding productivity of such cells, but IgA production of up to 20 pg per cell per 24 hours has been described in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, though this included gene amplification (Berdoz et al., 1999). However, cells with high copy numbers of the transgene are reported to display instability upon propagation of the cells (Kim et al., 1998; Barnes et al., 2003). Glycan structures present on an IgA molecule produced in CHO cells has also been analyzed, and it was found that CHO cells produced predominantly tri-antennary structures, whereas serum IgA contains mostly bi-antennary structures (Mattu et al., 1998). This may reflect a difference between human cells and CHO cell culture. 
 A need remains for a good production platform for recombinant IgA production, without the drawbacks associated with the existing platforms. 
 DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION 
 The characteristics of a platform for production of IgA preferably include high IgA productivity and human-type glycosylation of the molecule. It is demonstrated herein that PER.C6™ cells (Crucell NV of Leiden, NL) are capable of efficiently producing and secreting recombinant IgA molecules. High levels of IgA are expressed from recombinant cells without the need for amplification of the copy number of the recombinant nucleic acid encoding the IgA. 
 In one aspect, the invention provides a cell expressing E1A and E1B proteins of an adenovirus, wherein the cell includes recombinant nucleic acid encoding an IgA molecule in expressible format. 
 In another aspect, the invention provides a method for recombinant production of an IgA molecule, the method including: a) providing a cell expressing E1A and E1B proteins of an adenovirus, wherein the cell further includes recombinant nucleic acid encoding an IgA molecule in expressible format; and b) culturing the cell and expressing the recombinant nucleic acid encoding an IgA. In another aspect, the invention provides for the use of a cell expressing E1A and E1B proteins of an adenovirus for recombinant expression of IgA molecules. In certain embodiments, the cells are derived from retina cells. In other embodiments, the cells are derived from primary cells, which have been immortalized by the expression of E1A and E1B proteins. In other embodiments, the cells are human cells. In preferred embodiments, the cells of the invention are immortalized human retina cells, more preferably, PER.C6™ cells, or cells derived therefrom. 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
   FIG. 1 . Vector for expression of intact IgA. IgA-encoding regions, CMV promoters and the neomycin resistance marker are indicated. 
   FIG. 2 . Reducing and non-reducing SDS-PAGE (silver-stained) of crude cell culture supernatant from a clone producing IgA. An IgA standard is also included. 
 
 BEST MODE OF THE INVENTION 
 We have found that cells derived from human retina cells, which have been immortalized by introduction of E1 sequences from an adenovirus, are a good production platform for recombinant IgA molecules. A method for immortalization of embryonic retina cells has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,994,128, the contents of which are incorporated by this reference. Accordingly, an embryonic retina cell that has been immortalized with E1 sequences from an adenovirus can be obtained by that method. Other cells expressing E1A and E1B of an adenovirus can be prepared accordingly. Preferably, the cells of the invention are human cells. In certain embodiments, the cells are derived from retina cells. Preferably the cells are derived from primary cells. A cell according to the invention expresses at least the E1A region of an adenovirus, and preferably also the E1B region. E1A protein has transforming activity, while E1B protein has anti-apoptotic activities. The cells of the invention therefore preferably express E1A and E1B proteins of an adenovirus. In preferred embodiments, such cells are derived from PER.C6™ cells (human embryonic retinoblast cell line containing in its genome human adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) E1A and E1B coding sequences (nt. 459-3510) under the control of the human phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) promoter), as deposited under ECACC number 96022940 on Feb. 29, 1996 at the Centre for Applied Microbiology and Research Authority (European Collection of Animal Cell Cultures), Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4, OJG, United Kingdom, an International Depository Authority. Cells derived from a PER.C6™ cell according to the invention can be obtained by introduction of foreign genetic material encoding an IgA molecule into such PER.C6™ cells. Preferably, the cells are from a stable clone that can be selected and propagated according to standard procedures known to the person skilled in the art. A culture of such a clone is capable of producing recombinant IgA molecules. Cells according to the invention are preferably able to grow in suspension culture in serum-free medium. 
 It has previously been shown that PER.C6™ cells can express intact human IgG (U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 2003-0092160-A1, the contents of which is incorporated by this reference), that such IgGs have human-type glycans and the cells can be grown at large scale (Jones et al., 2003; Nichols et al., 2002). We have found that these cells can efficiently produce an additional class of immunoglobulins having different characteristics. It was unexpectedly found that IgA can be produced in PER.C6™ cells at levels comparable to those for IgG. 
 To obtain expression of nucleic acid sequences encoding IgA, it is well known to those skilled in the art that sequences capable of driving such expression can be functionally linked to the nucleic acid sequences encoding the IgA molecules, resulting in recombinant nucleic acid molecules encoding an IgA in expressible format. “Functionally linked” is meant to describe that the nucleic acid sequences encoding the IgA antibody fragments or precursors thereof are linked to the sequences capable of driving expression such that these sequences can drive expression of the antibodies or precursors thereof. 
 Useful expression vectors are available in the art, e.g., the pcDNA vector series of Invitrogen. Where the sequence encoding the IgA polypeptide of interest is properly inserted with reference to sequences governing the transcription and translation of the encoded polypeptide, the resulting expression cassette is useful to produce the IgA of interest, referred to as expression. Sequences driving expression may include promoters, enhancers and the like, and combinations thereof. These should be capable of functioning in the host cell, thereby driving expression of the nucleic acid sequences that are functionally linked to them. 
 Promoters can be constitutive or regulated, and can be obtained from various sources, including viruses, prokaryotic, or eukaryotic sources, or artificially designed. 
 Expression of nucleic acids of interest may be from the natural promoter or derivative thereof or from an entirely heterologous promoter. Some well-known and much used promoters for expression in eukaryotic cells include promoters derived from viruses, such as adenovirus, e.g., the E1A promoter, promoters derived from cytomegalovirus (CMV), such as the CMV immediate early (IE) promoter, promoters derived from Simian Virus 40 (SV40), and the like. Suitable promoters can also be derived from eukaryotic cells, such as methallothionein (MT) promoters, elongation factor 1α (EF-1α) promoter, actin promoter, an immunoglobulin promoter, heat shock promoters, and the like. In one embodiment the sequence capable of driving expression includes a region from a CMV promoter, preferably the region including nucleotides −735 to +95 of the CMV immediate early gene enhancer/promoter. This gives particularly high expression levels in cells expressing E1A of an adenovirus. 
 Culturing a cell is done to enable it to metabolize, and/or grow and/or divide and/or produce recombinant proteins of interest. Such culturing can be accomplished by methods well known to persons skilled in the art, and includes but is not limited to providing nutrients for the cell. The methods include growth by adherence to surfaces, growth in suspension, or combinations thereof. Several culturing conditions can be optimized by methods well known in the art to optimize protein production yields. Culturing can be done for instance in dishes, roller bottles or in bioreactors, using batch, fed-batch, continuous systems, hollow fiber, and the like. In order to achieve large scale (continuous) production of recombinant proteins through cell culture it is preferred in the art to have cells capable of growing in suspension, and it is preferred to have cells capable of being cultured in the absence of animal- or human-derived serum or animal- or human-derived serum components. Thus, purification is easier and safety is enhanced due to the absence of additional animal or human proteins derived from the culture medium, while the system is also very reliable as synthetic media are the best in reproducibility. 
 The conditions for growing or multiplying cells (see e.g.,  Tissue Culture , Academic Press, Kruse and Paterson, editors (1973)) and the conditions for expression of the recombinant product may differ somewhat, and optimization of the process is usually performed to increase the product yields and/or growth of the cells with respect to each other, according to methods generally known to the person skilled in the art. In general, principles, protocols, and practical techniques for maximizing the productivity of mammalian cell cultures can be found in  Mammalian Cell Biotechnology: a Practical Approach  (M. Butler, ed., IRL Press, 1991). 
 The IgA is expressed in the cells according to the invention, and may be recovered from the cells or preferably from the cell culture medium, by methods generally known to persons skilled in the art. Such methods may include precipitation, centrifugation, filtration, size-exclusion chromatography, affinity chromatography, cation- and/or anion-exchange chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, and the like. 
 It is demonstrated herein that IgA can be expressed at high levels without the necessity for first amplifying the nucleic acid sequences encoding the IgA within the host cells. This has the advantage that no large copy numbers are required for efficient expression according to the invention, in contrast to previously described recombinant IgA production systems, where amplification was required to obtain levels of around 20 pg IgA per cell per day. Preferably, the cells, when seeded at 0.5×10 6  cells/well and cultured in 6-well tissue culture plates at 37° C. in DMEM with 10% serum under an atmosphere containing 10% CO2, produce at least 5 pg IgA/seeded cell/day, more preferably at least 20 pg IgA/seeded cell/day, and even more preferably, at least 40 pg IgA/seeded cell/day. PER.C6® cells expressing IgG at high levels have been shown to contain usually between one and ten copies of the nucleic acid encoding the IgG per cell (Jones et al., 2003). 
 Methods of determining copy numbers are known to the person skilled in the art of molecular biology, and include Southern blotting, quantitative PCR, fiber-FISH, and the like. Hence, the invention provides for a method according to the invention wherein the cells include between one and twenty, usually between one and ten copies per cell of the recombinant nucleic acid encoding the IgA molecule. This has the advantage of fast expression, as no labor-intensive and time consuming amplification step is needed to obtain clones with sufficiently high expression levels for analysis. Moreover, such cells are expected to be more stable than cells containing high copy numbers of the transgene, that are reported to display instability upon propagation of the cells (Kim et al., 1998; Barnes et al., 2003). Therefore, also in view of regulatory requirements, the cells and methods of the invention are an improvement over those of the prior art. Preferably, cells in the method of the invention express at least 5 pg IgA per seeded cell per day, more preferably at least 20 pg per seeded cell per day, still more preferably ate least 40 pg per seeded cell per day, and still more preferably at least 50 pg per seeded cell per day. Levels up to 60 pg per seeded cell per day are herein reported. 
 The IgA production system of the invention is not dependent upon co-expression of the J-chain for production of functional IgA. Optionally however, J-chain may be co-expressed. 
 An IgA molecule is an immunoglobulin wherein the heavy chains are alpha chains. An IgA molecule can have a monomeric or dimeric structure. An IgA molecule according to the invention may be of any origin, including human, rodent, chimeric, humanized, and the like, however human IgAs are preferred. Using a human cell line for production provides these molecules with a human-type glycosylation, resulting in production of IgA molecules that are not recognized as foreign by the human immune system, because both the polypeptide and the glycan portion are human. The person skilled in the art will be aware of the possibilities to obtain human IgA sequences. The sequences for the constant regions are known, and are also provided herein. Sequences encoding human variable regions may, for example, be obtained by known methods such as phage display (methods, e.g., described in CF Barbas III et al.,  Phage Display, A laboratory manual , Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 2001) or by immunizing transgenic mice that include genetic material encoding a human immunoglobulin repertoire (Fishwild et al., 1996; Mendez et al., 1997). 
 Antibodies may be used as naked molecules, or they may be in the form of immunoconjugates or labeled molecules, and so used as a magic bullet to deliver a cargo to a tumor or infection for therapy or imaging (Carter, 2001; Borrebaeck and Carlsson, 2001; Park and Smolen, 2001). Immunoconjugates include antigen binding domains and a non-antibody part such as a toxin, a radiolabel, an enzyme, and the like. IgA molecules may be labeled in the same way as IgG molecules. Hence, the term IgA molecule as used herein includes naked IgA molecules, but may also refer to immunoconjugates including IgA molecules. 
 The IgA generated in this study is against the human tumor antigen EpCAM (epithelial cell adhesion molecule), a 40 kDa glycoprotein expressed on the surface of colon carcinoma cells. The high expression of EpCAM on colon carcinomas makes it an attractive target for immunotherapy. The antibody was isolated from a semi-synthetic phage library as a single chain Fv fragment named UBS54 (WO 01/48485; Huls et al., 1999b). In one aspect the invention therefore provides a recombinant human IgA molecule that is capable of binding to EpCAM. In other embodiments, human IgA molecules are used for the preparation of a medicament and/or for direct treatment of a disease such as cancer. 
 EXAMPLES 
 The invention will now be described by some illustrative examples. In practice, the invention generally employs, unless otherwise indicated, conventional techniques of immunology, molecular biology, microbiology, microbiology, cell biology, and recombinant DNA, which are within the skill of the art. See, e.g., Sambrook, J. and Russell, D. W. (2001),  Molecular cloning: a laboratory manual , Pub. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press;  Current Protocols in Molecular Biology , Ausubel F. M., et al., eds, 1987; the series  Methods in Enzymology  (Academic Press, Inc.);  PCR 2 : A Practical Approach , MacPherson M. J., Hams B. D., Taylor G. R., eds, 1995 ; Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual , Harlow and Lane, eds, 1988. 
 Example I 
 Construction of pEpcamIgA Expression Vector 
 An expression plasmid was generated which encodes both the light and heavy chains of an IgA antibody that recognizes EpCAM. The DNA encoding the antigen-binding region of this antibody was first isolated from a scFv phage display library (Huls et al., 1999). A leader sequence and constant regions were added essentially as described in Boel et al., 2000. The genomic DNA encoding the light and heavy chains (genomic sequences of the antibody-encoding regions provided in SEQ ID NO:1 and SEQ ID NO:2, amino acid sequences of the encoded anti-EpCAM IgA provided in SEQ ID NO:3 and SEQ ID NO:4) were then amplified using PCR to append convenient restriction sites, and then cloned into the expression vector pcDNA3002(Neo). The following primers were used for PCR of the light chain: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (SEQ ID NO: 5) 
 
 
 
 
   
 E001: CCT GGCGC GCC     ACC     G CATGCCCTGGCTTCCTGTGG 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 (SEQ ID NO: 6) 
 
 
 
 
   
 E002: CCGG GTTAA C     TA ACACTCTCCCCTGTTGAAGC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following primers were used for PCR of the heavy chain: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (SEQ ID NO: 7) 
 
 
 
 
   
 E003: GGA GGATCC   GCCACC     G CATGCCCTGGCTTCCTGTGG 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 (SEQ ID NO: 8) 
 
 
 
 
   
 P01: GGACC GCTAGC   TCA GTAGCAGGTGCCGAC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The start codon (E001, E003) and stop codon (E002, P01) are in bold. Restriction sites AscI (E001), HpaI (E002), BamHI (E003) and NheI (P01) are underlined. Primers E001 and E003 also include a Kozak sequence (italics). The light chain fragment of approximately 0.9 kb was digested with AscI-HpaI and inserted into pcDNA3002(Neo) digested with the same enzymes. The heavy chain fragment of approximately 2.0 kb was then digested with BamHI-NheI and inserted into pcDNA3002(Neo) containing the light chain digested with the same enzymes. The resulting plasmid is pEpcamIgA ( FIG. 1 ). The generated construct contains DNA encoding a kappa light chain and an alpha1 heavy chain, both preceded by a CMV promoter. The expression vector pcDNA3002(Neo), which has been described in international patent application PCT/NL02/00841, was deposited on Dec. 13, 2001 at the European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC) under number 01121318. 
 Example II 
 Transfection of PER.C6™ Cell Line and Production of IgA 
 Cells were transfected with pEpcamIgA by a Lipofectamine based method. In brief, PER.C6™ cells were seeded at 3.5×10 6  cells per 96 mm tissue culture dish. For each dish, 2 μg plasmid DNA was mixed with 10 μl Lipofectamine (Gibco); this was added to the cells in serum free DMEM medium (total volume 7 ml) and incubated for four hours. This was then replaced with DMEM medium (i.e., containing serum). The following day (and for the ensuing three weeks) cells were grown in DMEM medium in the presence of 0.5 mg/ml Geneticin (G418) to select for clones that were stably transfected with the plasmid. Clones were tested for IgA productivity by ELISA analysis. In brief, cells were plated at 0.5×10 6  cells per well of a 6-well dish in DMEM serum. These were incubated for four days, after which time supernatant was harvested and IgA concentration measured. For ELISA analysis, wells of a 96-well plate were coated with antibody raised against Ig kappa light chain. After blocking with a BSA solution, samples were added to wells at varying dilutions and incubated for one hour. The standard used was human IgA (Accurate Chemical cat. YSRTPHP002). After washing, detection antibody (HRP-labelled anti-IgA) was applied for 30 minutes. After a further washing step, substrate O-phenylene diamine dihydrochloride was added. Antibody concentration was determined by comparing optical density at 492 nm with that of the known antibody standard. The highest-producing clones produced around 60 pg IgA/seeded cell/day. This is comparable to results seen when IgG-producing cell lines are measured with the same analysis. 
 Production of antibody was performed in, serum-free medium. Thus the adherent cells in tissue culture flasks were transferred to roller bottles in PER.C6™ suspension growth medium (under which conditions the cells grow in suspension). After one week, supernatant was harvested and electrophoresed on reducing and non-reducing SDS-PAGE ( FIG. 2 ). The reducing gel indicates that IgA is produced efficiently, with essentially all protein either intact light or intact heavy chain. The heavy chains of both the anti-Epcam sample and the standard IgA run as a doublet; the reason for this is unclear. The non-reducing gel shows that the IgA has a molecular weight of between 116 and 200 kDa; this shows that the species produced is monomeric, and no evidence of high molecular weight aggregated material or low molecular weight fragments are visible. Again the protein runs as a doublet; the control material is also present as a doublet, but also contains many unidentified bands. 
 The examples above demonstrate that PER.C6™ cells may be transfected with a plasmid expressing IgA to give cells with a high IgA productivity. 
 REFERENCES 
 
   
 Barnes, L. M., Bentley, C. M., Dickson, A. J. (2003). Stability of protein production from recombinant mammalian cells. Biotechnol. and Bioeng. 81, 631-639. 
 Berdoz, J., Blanc, C. T., Reinhardt, M., Kraehenbuhl, J., Corthesy, B. (1999). In vitro comparison of the antigen-binding and stability properties of the various molecular forms of IgA antibodies assembled and produced in CHO cells. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 96, 3029-34. 
 Boel, E., Verlaan, S., Poppelier, M. J., Westerdaal, N. A., Van Strijp, J. A., Logtenberg, T. (2000). Functional human monoclonal antibodies of all isotypes constructed from phage display library-derived single-chain Fv antibody fragments. J. Immunol. Methods. 239, 153-66. 
 Borrebaeck, C. A. K. and Carlsson, R. (2001). Human therapeutic antibodies. Curr. Op. Pharmacol. 1, 404-408. 
 Carter, P. (2001). Improving the efficacy of antibody-based cancer therapies. Nature Reviews: Cancer 1, 118-129. 
 Chintalacharuvu, K. R., Morrison, S. L. (1999). Production and characterization of recombinant IgA. Immunotechnol. 4, 165-174. 
 Corthesy, B. (2002). Recombinant immunoglobulin A: powerful tools for fundamental and applied research. Trends in Biotechnol. 20, 65-71. 
 Dechant, M. and Valerius, T. (2001). IgA antibodies for cancer therapy. Crit. Rev. in Oncol./Haematol. 39, 69-77. 
 van Egmond, M., van Spriel, A. B., Vermeulen, H., Huls, G., van Garderen, E., van de Winkel, J. G. (2001). Enhancement of polymorphonuclear cell-mediated tumor cell killing on simultaneous engagement of fcgammaRI (CD64) and fcalphaRI (CD89). Cancer Res. 61, 4055-4060. 
 Fishwild, D. M., O'Donnell, S. L., Bengoechea, T., Hudson, D. V., Harding, F., Bernhard, S. L., Jones, D., Kay, R. M., Higgins, K. M., Schramm, S. R., Lonberg, N. (1996). High-avidity human IgG kappa monoclonal antibodies from a novel strain of minilocus transgenic mice. Nat. Biotechnol. 14, 845-51. Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 30, 43-50. 
 Ghetie, M. A., Podar, E. M., Ilgen, A., Gordon, B. E., Uhr, J. W., Vitetta, E. S. (1997). Homodimerization of tumor-reactive monoclonal antibodies markedly increases their ability to induce growth arrest or apoptosis of tumor cells. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 94, 7509-14. 
 Huls, G., Heijnen, I. A., Cuomo, E., van der Linden, J., Boel, E., van de Winkel, J. G., Logtenberg, T. (1999a). Antitumor immune effector mechanisms recruited by phage display-derived fully human IgG1 and IgA1 monoclonal antibodies. Cancer Res. 59, 5778-5784. 
 Huls, G. A., Heijnen, I. A. F. M., Cuomo, M. E., Koningsberger, J. C., Wiegman, L., Boel, E., van der Vuurst-de Vries, A-R., Loyson, S. A. J., Helfrich, W., van Berge Henegouwen, G. P., van Meijer, M., de Kruif, J., Logtenberg, T. (1999b). A recombinant, fully human monoclonal antibody with antitumor activity constructed from phage-displayed antibody fragments. Nat. Biotechnol. 17, 276-281. 
 Johansen F. E., Braathen R., Brandtzaeg P. (2000). Role of J chain in secretory immunoglobulin formation. Scand. J. Immunol. 52, 240-248. 
 Johansen, F. E., Braathen, R., Brandtzaeg, P. (2001). The J chain is essential for polymeric Ig receptor-mediated epithelial transport of IgA. J. Immunol. 167, 5185-5192. 
 Jones, D., Kroos, N., Anema, R., Van Montfort, B., Vooys, A., Van Der Kraats, S., Van Der Helm, E., Smits, S., Schouten, J., Brouwer, K., Lagerwerf, F., Van Berkel, P., Opstelten, D-J., Logtenberg, T., Bout, A. (2003). High-level expression of recombinant IgG in the human cell line PER.C6™. Biotechnol. Prog. 19, 163-8. 
 Kim, S. J., Kim, N. S., Ryu, C. J., Hong, H. J., Lee, G. M. (1998). Characterization of chimeric antibody producing CHO cells in the course of dihydrofolate reductase-mediated gene amplification and their stability in the absence of selective pressure. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 58, 73-84. 
 Longo, D. L. (2002). DR's orders: human antibody kills tumors by direct signalling. Nat. Med. 8, 781-783. 
 Mattu, T. S., Pleass, R. J., Willis, A. C., Kilian, M., Wormald, M. R., Lellouch, A. C., Rudd, P. M., Woof, J. M., Dwek, R. A. (1998). The glycosylation and structure of human serum IgA1, Fab, and Fc regions and the role of N-glycosylation on Fc alpha receptor interactions. J. Biol. Chem. 273, 2260-72. 
 Mendez, M. J., Green, L. L., Corvalan, J. R., Jia, X. C., Maynard-Currie, C. E., Yang, X. D., Gallo, M. L., Louie, D. M., Lee, D. V., Erickson, K. L., Luna, J., Roy, C. M., Abderrahim, H., Kirschenbaum, F., Noguchi, M., Smith, D. H., Fukushima, A., Hales, J. F., Klapholz, S., Finer, M. H., Davis, C. G., Zsebo, K. M., Jakobovits, A. (1997). Functional transplant of megabase human immunoglobulin loci recapitulates human antibody response in mice. Nat. Genet. 15, 146-56. 
 Nichols, W. W., Lardenoije, R., Ledwith, B. J., Brouwer, K., Manam, S., Vogels, R., Kaslow, D., Zuidgeest, D., Bett, A. J., Chen, L., van der Kaaden, M., Galloway, S. M., Hill, R. B., Machotka, S. V., Anderson, C. A., Lewis, J., Martinez, D., Lebron, J., Russo, C., Valerio, D. and Bout, A. (2002). Propagation of adenoviral vectors: use of PER.C6 cells. In  Adenoviral vectors for gene therapy , (Ed. Curiel D. T. and Douglas, J. T.). Pub. Academic Press. 
 Novak, J., Tomana, M., Kilian, M., Coward, L., Kulhavy, R., Barnes, S., Mestecky, J. (2000). Heterogeneity of O-glycosylation in the hinge region of human IgA1. Mol Immunol. 37, 1047-56. 
 Park, J. W. and Smolen, J. (2001). Monoclonal antibody therapy. Adv. Prot. Chem. 56, 369-421. 
 van Spriel, A. B., van den Herik-Oudijk, I. E., van Sorge, N. M., Vile, H. A., van Strijp, J. A., van de Winkel, J. G. (1999). Effective phagocytosis and killing of  Candida albicans  via targeting FcgammaRI (CD64) or FcalphaRI (CD89) on neutrophils. J. Infect. Dis. 179, 661-669. 
 Tutt, A. L., French, R. R., Illidge, T. M., Honeychurch, J., McBride, H. M., Penfold, C. A., Fearon, D. T., Parkhouse, R. M. E., Klaus, G. G. B. and Glennie, M. J. (1998). Monoclonal antibody therapy of B cell lymphoma: signalling activity on tumour cells appears more important than recruitment of effectors. J. Immunol. 161, 3176-3185. 
 Vidarsson, G., van der Pol, W. L., van den Elsen, J. M., Vile, H., Jansen, M., Duijs, J., Morton, H. C., Boel, E., Daha, M. R., Corthesy, B., van de Winkel, J. G. (2001). Activity of human IgG and IgA subclasses in immune defense against Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B. J. Immunol. 166, 6250-6256. 
 Yoo, E. M., Chintalacharuvu, K. R., Penichet, M. L., Morrison, S. L. (2002). Myeloma expression systems. J. Immunol. Meths. 261, 1-20. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
