
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
 This application is a divisional patent application of application U.S. Ser. No. 10/632,117, filed Jul. 31, 2003, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,927,605 (Apr. 19, 2011), which is a continuation of PCT/NL02/00073, filed Jan. 31, 2002, designating the United States of America, corresponding to PCT International Publication WO 02/061070 (published in English on Aug. 8, 2002), the contents of each of which are incorporated herein in their entirety. 
 TECHNICAL FIELD 
 The invention relates to the field of the diagnosis of and vaccination against Streptococcal infections, and to the detection of virulence markers of Streptococci. 
 BACKGROUND 
   Streptococcus  species, of which there are a large variety of that cause infections in domestic animals and man, are often grouped according to Lancefield's groups. Typing according to Lancefield occurs on the basis of serological determinants or antigens that are, among others, present in the capsule of the bacterium and only allows for an approximate determination. Often, bacteria from a different group show cross-reactivity with each other, while other Streptococci cannot be assigned a group-determinant at all. Within groups, further differentiation is often possible on the basis of serotyping. These serotypes further contribute to the large antigenic variability of Streptococci, a fact that creates an array of difficulties within diagnosis of and vaccination against Streptococcal infections. 
 Lancefield group A  Streptococcus  (GAS,  Streptococcus pyogenes ) are common with children and cause nasopharyngeal infections and complications thereof. Animals, such as cattle, are susceptible to GAS, wherein mastitis is often found associated with the cattle. 
 Lancefield group B  Streptococcus  (GBS) are most often seen with cattle and cause mastitis. However, human infants are susceptible as well, often with fatal consequences. Group B Streptococci (GBS) constitute a major cause of bacterial sepsis and meningitis among human neonates born in the United States and Western Europe and are emerging as significant neonatal pathogens in developing countries. 
 Lancefield group C infections, such as those with  S. equi, S. zooepidemicus, S. dysgalactiae , and others are mainly seen associated with horses, cattle and pigs, but can also cross the species barrier to humans. 
 Lancefield group D ( S. bovis ) infections are found with all mammals and some birds, sometimes resulting in endocarditis or septicemia. 
 Lancefield groups E, G, L, P, U and V ( S. porcinus, S. canis, S. dysgalactiae ) are found with various hosts and cause neonatal infections, nasopharyngeal infections or mastitis. 
 Within Lancefield groups R, S, and T (and with ungrouped types),  S. suis  is found and is an important cause of meningitis, septicemia, arthritis and sudden death in young pigs. Incidentally,  S. suis  can also cause meningitis in man. 
 Ungrouped  Streptococcus  species, such as  S. mutans , causes carries with humans.  S. uberis  causes mastitis with cattle,  S. pneumonia  causes major infections in humans, and  Enterococcus faecilalis  and  E. faecium  further contribute to the large group of Streptococci.  Streptococcus pneumoniae  (the  pneumococcus ) is a human pathogen causing invasive diseases, such as pneumonia, bacteremia, and meningitis. 
 Little is known about the pathogenesis of the disease caused by Streptococci. Various cellular components, such as muramidase-released protein (MRP), extracellular factor (EF) and cell-membrane-associated proteins including fimbriae, hemagglutinins, and hemolysin have been suggested as virulence factors. However, the precise role of these protein components in the pathogenesis of the disease remains unclear. It is known and generally accepted that the polysaccharidic capsule of various Streptococci and other gram-positive bacteria play an important role in pathogenesis. The capsule enables these microorganisms to resist phagocytosis and is, therefore, regarded as an important virulence factor or marker. 
 In particular,  Streptococcus suis  is an important cause of meningitis, septicemia, arthritis and sudden death in young pigs. It can also cause meningitis in man. Attempts to control the disease are hampered by the lack of sufficient knowledge about the pathogenesis of the disease and the lack of effective vaccines and sensitive diagnostic methods. 
 So far, 35 serotypes of  S. suis  are described. Virulence of  S. suis  can differ within and among serotypes. Worldwide,    S. suis      serotype  2 is the most frequently isolated serotype. Within  S. suis    serotype  2, pathogenic, weak-pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains can be found. The pathogenic strains cause severe clinical signs of disease in pigs and large numbers of bacteria can be re-isolated from the central nervous system (CNS) and the joints after experimental infection. The weak-pathogenic strains cause only mild clinical signs of disease and infrequently are bacteria re-isolated from the CNS and the joints after experimental infection. The non-pathogenic strains are completely avirulent in young pigs after experimental infection. 
 The 136-kDa muramidase-related protein (MRP) and the 110-kDa extracellular factor (EF) are generally considered as important virulence markers for    S. suis      serotype  2 strains isolated in Europe and the United States. However, differences in virulence between pathogenic, weak-pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains cannot exclusively be explained by differences in their MRP and EF expression patterns. In addition, it is known that the capsule of  Streptococcus suis    serotype  2 is an important virulence factor. However, since pathogenic, weak-pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains seem to be fully encapsulated after growth in vitro and in vivo, it is not likely that the level of encapsulation of these fully encapsulated strains is associated with their difference in virulence. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 The invention discloses a method for modulating virulence of a  Streptococcus  comprising modifying a genomic fragment of  Streptococcus . The genomic fragment comprises at least a functional part of a fragment identifiable by hybridization in  Streptococcus suis  to a nucleic acid or fragment thereof as shown in SEQ ID NOS: 8 through 45 and obtaining a clone including the modified genomic fragment. In one exemplary embodiment, the genomic fragment comprises at least a functional part of a gene, the expression of which can be environmentally regulated in  S. suis  by iron-restricted conditions. In another exemplary embodiment, the genomic fragment comprises at least a functional part of a gene which is expressed in a wild-type  S. suis  infected pig (in vivo). In a further exemplary embodiment, selection under iron-restricted conditions is combined with selection in vivo. In one embodiment, the gene encodes a fibronectin/fibrinogen-binding protein. The method disclosed herein is useful for modulating virulence of  Streptococcus suis  and comprises functionally deleting the expression of at least the functional part of the gene by  Streptococcus.    
 The phrase “functionally deleting” as used herein refers to any technique known in the art (such as allowing for a deletion, insertion, mutation or the occurrence of a frame-shift in the open-reading frame of the respective gene) that is instrumental in hampering or inhibiting the expression of a gene-product (be it mRNA and/or protein) of the gene. Thus, the invention discloses a clone of a  Streptococcus  obtained or obtainable by a method according to the invention. 
 To get insight in the differences between pathogenic, weak-pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains or clones that are determined by their difference in virulence, the invention describes the identification of environmentally regulated genes of  Streptococcus suis  by iron-restricted conditions and by experimental infection of piglets. Eighteen unique iron-restricted induced (iri) genes and 22 unique in vivo selected (ivs) genes of  S. suis  were found. None of the ivs genes was exclusively expressed in vivo. Four iri genes were substantially identical to four ivs genes selected in piglets. Two ivs genes were similar to genes for putative virulence factors. One of these ivs genes was substantially identical to the epf gene of virulent    S. suis      serotype  2 strains and the other ivs gene showed homology to a gene encoding a fibronectin-binding protein of  Streptococcus gordonii.    
 In yet another embodiment, the invention discloses a study of the characteristics of fibronectin- and fibrinogen-binding protein of  Streptococcus suis  (FBPS) and its gene as identified herein. The ability to bind fibronectin, either in fluid phase or immobilized onto a surface, is a property of  S. suis  and is one of the mechanisms  S. suis  uses for attachment to and invasion of host cells. Therefore, FBPS is an important virulence factor. The gene encoding FBPS was identified using an in vivo selection system in pigs as described herein, thus, showing an important role of the protein in vivo. This finding was supported by the observation that isogenic FBPS mutants, herein also disclosed, of  S. suis  are attenuated in pigs. Surprisingly, FBPS bound to fibronectin, as well as to fibrinogen, but did not show the structural characteristics of the fibronectin-binding proteins most commonly described and explains why FBPS has not been found earlier. Most fibronectin-binding proteins described to date are large cell surface proteins with predicted sizes of 60-100 kDa and have similar structural organizations. The proteins contain an N-terminal signal sequence as well as the cell wall signaling sequence (LPXTGE) (SEQ ID NO: 1). The Fn-binding sites include 30-42 amino acid long motifs, repeated 3-4 times. In particular, the first fibronectin- and fibrinogen-binding protein of  S. suis  is disclosed herein. The gene encoding FBPS was cloned and sequenced and FBPS was purified. Binding of FBPS to human fn and fgn was shown. FBPS was shown to be involved in the colonization of the organs specific for an  S. suis  infection in piglets, but not in the colonization of  S. suis  on the tonsils of piglets. 
 Many Streptococci and Staphylococci have several different fibronectin- and/or fibrinogen-binding proteins, most of which are very large, about 130 kDa. Until now,  S. pyogenes  was the only organism to have a large, as well as a smaller (54 kDa), FnBP. The existence of more than one FnBP explains why in some organisms, isogenic mutants defective in only one of the FnBPs can still bind to fin and/or fgn can be further attenuated in vivo in relation to fibronectin binding. 
 The role of FBPS in the pathogenesis of  S. suis  was studied in an experimental infection model in piglets. Since we were unable to determine a LD 50  values for the mutant clones because no lethal dose could be established using normally used numbers of bacteria, it was decided to compare the virulence of the isogenic FBPS clone to the wild-type  S. suis  in a competitive infection assay in piglets. This kind of co-colonization experiment has been successfully applied to determine the virulence of mutants of  Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae  in piglets. The data showed that the mutant clone was capable of colonizing the tonsil as efficiently as the wild-type. This strongly indicates that FBPS is not involved in the colonization of the tonsil. The data also indicated that FBPS does play a role in the colonization of specific organs, since in the competition assay, joints and the CNS were more efficiently colonized by wild-type than by mutant bacteria. 
 In addition, higher numbers of wild-type bacteria were re-isolated from the specific organs compared to the numbers of mutant bacteria, indicating that the mutant clone is attenuated in vivo. Although the number of pigs used for this experiment was low, the data indicates that the FBPS mutant is less virulent than the wild-type strain. It was demonstrated that FBPS reacted with a convalescent serum of a pig that survived an  S. suis  infection. Therefore, FBPS is immunogenic in pigs and this finding demonstrates that FBPS of  S. suis  is expressed under in vivo conditions. 
 It is also shown that the fbps gene was present in all known serotypes of  S. suis  (except for two), as well as in all three phenotypes of  serotype  2. This suggests that the fbps gene is present among most serotypes. However, the expression of FBPS in all serotypes and phenotypes was not studied. Therefore, it is possible that although all strains, except for    serotypes    32 and 34, possess the fbps gene, not all strains express FBPS. Based on the facts that FBPS is immunogenic in pigs and that the fbps gene is present in all prevailing  S. suis  serotypes, (except for two), FBPS is an attractive candidate for a cross-protective vaccine against essentially all serotypes. In one embodiment, the mutant strain 10ΔFBPS may be used in the vaccine, which mutant is possibly further attenuated by deleting one or more virulence factors as described herein. In another embodiment, this vaccine is based on purified FBPS protein or an antigenic part thereof with a suitable adjuvant. 
 To further validate a method for identifying a virulence factor, the role of the fibronectin-/fibrinogen-binding protein (FBPS) in the pathogenesis of  S. suis    serotype  2 was investigated in piglets as described herein. The complete gene encoding FBPS from  S. suis    serotype  2 was cloned in  E. coli  and sequenced. The occurrence of the gene in various serotypes was analyzed by hybridization studies. The FBPS protein was expressed in  E. coli , purified and binding to human fibronectin and fibrinogen was demonstrated. The induction of antibodies in piglets was studied upon infection. An isogenic mutant unable to produce FBPS was constructed and the virulence of the wild-type and mutant strains was compared in a competitive infection model in young piglets. Organ cultures showed that FBPS was not required for colonization of the tonsils, but that FBPS played a role in the colonization of the specific organs involved in an  S. suis  infection. Therefore, the FBPS mutant was considered as an attenuated mutant which is useful in a vaccine. Alternatively, a vaccine is used that mainly includes the FBPS protein or at least of an antigenic part thereof, such that an FBPS-specific antibody or T-cell response in pigs is developed after vaccination with the FBPS or antigenic part thereof. 
 Two additional ivs genes showed homology to environmentally regulated genes previously identified by using an in vivo expression technology (IVET) selection in other bacterial species. One of these showed similarity to the agrA gene of  Staphylococcus aureus , a key locus involved in the regulation of numerous virulence proteins. 
 Thus, the invention also discloses a method for assaying virulence of a  Streptococcus  comprising assaying a genomic fragment of  Streptococcus , wherein the genomic fragment comprises at least a functional part of a fragment identifiable by hybridization in  Streptococcus suis  to a nucleic acid or fragment thereof as described herein. 
 The invention also discloses a vector comprising a nucleic acid according to the invention and a host cell comprising a nucleic acid or a vector according to the invention. Such a host cell comprises an easily modifiable organism such as  E. coli . However, other host cells, such as a recombinant  Streptococcus  comprising a vector or nucleic acid according to the invention are also disclosed herein. 
 The invention additionally discloses a vaccine comprising a nucleic acid, a vector or a host cell according to the invention, and use of such a vaccine in the prevention and/or treatment of Streptococcal infections. 
 Also disclosed is a protein or fragment thereof encoded by a nucleic acid according to the invention, such as a protein encoded by a nucleic acid or fragment thereof disclosed herein or functional, i.e., antigenic fragment thereof. The invention also discloses an antibody directed against a protein or fragment thereof according to the invention and an antigen reactive with such an antibody, for example comprising a protein or fragment. Such a protein or fragment thereof need not be obtained by recombinant means. Synthesis of peptides, according to their amino acid sequence, is as well equally possible. Such antigens and antibodies as described herein can be used in a diagnostic test comprising an antibody according to the invention, or within a vaccine or diagnostic test comprising an antigen according to the invention. Such vaccines and diagnostic tests can be used in the field of the diagnosis of and vaccination against Streptococcal infections and for the detection of virulence markers of Streptococci. 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
   FIG. 1  is a schematic presentation of the procedure used to clone the fbps gene of  S. suis    serotype  2 and the construction of an insertional knock-out mutant in  S. suis    serotype  2. A 5 kb EcoRI fragment was cloned in pGEM7Zf(+), yielding pFBPS7-46. In pFBPS7-47, the 382 bp SalI-SalI fragment of pFBPS7-46 was replaced by 1.2 kb spectinomycin-resistance gene, after the vector was made blunt to obtain an insertional knock-out of fbps. Ivs-31: in vivo selected  gene  31. 
   FIG. 2  shows purity and immunogenicity of FBPS purified under native conditions. SDS-PAGE analysis with SYPRO orange, a non-specific protein-staining (panel A) and Western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody against the 6×HIS tag (panel B) of 4:1 of  E. coli  M15 (pQE-30-pREP4-FBPS) lysate (lanes 1) and 165 ng of purified FBPS (lanes 2). Convalescent serum raised against  S. suis    strain  10 was used to test immunogenicity of FPBS present in 4:1 of  E. coli  M15 (pQE-30-pREP4-FBPS) lysate and 0.5 μg of purified FBPS (Panel C,  lanes  1 and 2). Arrowhead, 64 kDa FPBS; Mw, molecular weight marker. 
   FIG. 3  depicts the binding studies with purified FBPS. Panels A and B were probed with 5 μg/ml of fn (A) or fgn (B).  Lanes  1 contain 500 ng of purified FBPS,  lanes  2 contain 500 ng of BSA. Panels C and D,    lanes    3 and 4 contain 500 ng of purified FBPS.  Lanes  3 were probed with 20 μg/ml of fn (C) or fgn (D),  lanes  4 were incubated with conjugate without fn or fgn. Panels E and F were probed with 20 μg/ml of fn (E) or fgn (F).  Lanes  5 contain 1.8 μg of purified FBPS digested with enterokinase,  lanes  6 contain 500 ng of purified FBPS. The closed arrowhead indicates 64 kDa FBPS; the open arrowhead indicates approximately 55 kDa FBPS without 6×HIS. 
   FIG. 4  shows the distribution of fbps among various  S. suis  serotypes. 1 μg of chromosomal DNA was spotted onto nitrocellulose membrane and hybridized with a  32 P-labelled fbps probe. Serotypes were spotted as indicated. S10:  S. suis    serotype  2, MRP + EF + ; T15 : S. suis    serotype  2 MRP − EF − ; S17 : S. suis    serotype  2 MRP + EF + . 
   FIG. 5  illustrates the efficiency of colonization of wild-type and mutant bacteria on various organs of infected pigs. Panel A depicts colonization of the wild- type strain  10 and the mutant strain 10ΔFBPS of the tonsils. A closed diamond symbol is tonsil pig no. 4664; 0 tonsil pig no. 4665; A tonsil pig no 4666; ◯ tonsil pig no. 4668. Panel B depicts colonization of the specific organs. Open and closed diamond symbols are pus from joints pig no. 4664; A pus from joint pig no. 4666; ◯CNS pig no. 4668. Each dot represents the numbers of wild-type or mutant bacteria isolated from one particular organ, from one piglet. 
 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION 
   Streptococcus suis  is an important cause of meningitis, septicemia, arthritis and sudden death in young pigs (Clifton-Haclley, 1983; Vecht et al., 1985). It can also cause meningitis in man (Arends and Zanen, 1988). Attempts to control the disease are still hampered by the lack of sufficient knowledge about the pathogenesis of the disease, the lack of effective vaccines and sensitive diagnostic methods. To meet these shortages, it is necessary to identify the genes that are involved in the pathogenic process. So far, only a limited number of  S. suis  genes are known (Smith et al., 1992; Smith et al., 1993; Serhir et al., 1997; Segers et al., 1998; Smith et al., 1999; and accession nos. AF106927, Z95920 and A57222) and of these, only a few are putatively involved in virulence (Smith et al., 1992; Smith et al., 1993; Jacobs et al., 1994; Gottschalk et al., 1995; Segers et al., 1998; Smith et al., 1999). Previously, putative virulence factors have been identified after growth of the bacteria in standard laboratory media. However, it is known that many important virulence factors are environmentally regulated and are induced at specific stages of the infection process (Mahan et al., 1993). 
 Recently, several approaches have been reported that allow the identification of genes that are specifically expressed in the host. Examples are signature-tagged mutagenesis (STM) and in vivo expression technology (IVET; Mahan et al., 1993; Camilli and Mekalanos, 1995; Hensel et al., 1995; Mahan et al., 1995; Mei et al., 1997; Young and Miller, 1997; Chiang and Mekalanos, 1998; Coulter et al., 1998; Lowe et al., 1998; Polissi et al., 1998; Camacho et al., 1999; Darwin et al., 1999; Edeistein et al., 1999; Fuller et al., 1999; Zhao et al., 1999). In addition, important virulence proteins could also be identified by the selection of genes specifically expressed under conditions mimicking in vivo conditions, for example by growth in iron-restricted conditions (Litwin and Calderwood, 1993; Martinez et al., 1990). 
 The present invention identifies virulence genes of  S. suis  by selecting environmentally regulated genes by experimental infections of piglets and by the use of iron-restricted conditions in vitro. For this purpose, chromosomal DNA fragments of  S. suis  were cloned in a plasmid in front of a promoterless erythromycin-resistance gene. Subsequently, the library was used for the selection of bacteria in which erythromycin resistance was induced under iron-restricted conditions. In addition, erythromycin-resistant bacteria were selected after infection of piglets with the library and treatment of the piglets with erythromycin. Pigs were used instead of mice for these experiments since it was recently shown that virulence of  S. suis  is different in these two animal species (Vecht et al., 1997). Using this approach, 18 unique iron-restriction-induced (iri) genes, as well as 22 unique in vivo selected (ivs) genes, were identified, several of which are putatively involved in virulence (Smith et al., 1993; Smith et al., 1996). 
 Methods. 
 Bacterial strains and growth conditions. The bacterial strains and plasmids used in this study are listed in Table 1 . S. suis  strains were grown in Todd-Hewitt broth (Oxoid), and plated on Columbia agar (Oxoid) containing 6% (v/v) horse blood. For the selection of genes induced in iron-limited conditions,  S. suis  cells were plated on agar plates containing Todd-Hewitt medium, 5% (w/v) yeast extract and 75 μM deferoxamine mesylate (Sigma). Control plates were supplemented with 38 μM FeSO 4 .7H 2 O (Sigma). If required, antibiotics were added at the following concentrations: 100 μg spectinomycin ml −1  and 1 μg erythromycin ml −1   . E. coli  strains were grown in Luria broth (Miller, 1972) and plated on Luria broth containing 1.5% (w/v) agar. If required, 50 μg ampicillin ml −1  or 50 μg spectinomycin ml −1  was added. 
 Construction of pIVS-E. The IVS selection vector used in this study comprises a spectinomycin-resistance gene, a promoterless erythromycin-resistance gene and the origin of replication of the plasmid pWVO1 (Van der Vossen et al., 1987). To construct this pIVS-E, the spectinomycin-resistance gene was amplified from pKUN19-spc (Konings et al., 1987; Smith et al., 1995). In a PCR reaction, the  primers  5′-TGCATGCATGGATCCATCGA TTTTCGTTCG-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 2) and 5′-CGAGCTCGGTACCTGATTACCAATTAGAAT-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 3), which contained NsiI and SacI restriction sites at their respective 5′-ends were used. The obtained PCR product was digested with NsiI and SacI and ligated into pGKV210 (Van der Vossen et al., 1987) that had been digested with SacI (partially) and NsiI. The resulting plasmid was designated pGKV210-spc. pE194 (Horinouchi and Weisblum, 1982) was used as a template for the amplification of a promoterless erythromycin-resistance gene. To do this, the  primers  5′-GGGTCGACCCTATAACCAAATTAAAGAGGG-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 4) and 5′-CCCAAGCTTGGGCAGTTTA TGCATCCCTTAAC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 5) were used in a PCR reaction. These primers contained SalI and HindIII restriction sites at their respective 5′-ends. The amplified fragment was digested with SalI and HindIII and the fragment was ligated into pGKV210-spc that had been digested with SalI and HindIII. The resulting plasmid was designated pIVS-E. To construct pIVS-PE, the promoter region of the mrp gene was inserted into pIVS- E  5′ to the promoterless erythromycin-resistance gene. The promoter region of the mrp gene was amplified by PCR from pMRP11 (Smith et al., 1992) using the  primers  5′-CCCAAGCTTGGGAATTCATAATGTTTTTTTGAGG-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 6) and 5′-GCGTCGACA TCTACGCATAAAAAATCCCCC-3′ (SEQ ID NO: 7). These primers contained EcoRI and SalI sites at their respective 5′-ends. Amplified DNA was digested with EcoRI and SalI and the resulting fragment was ligated into EcoRI and SalI-digested pIVS-E. 
 Construction of genomic  S. suis  libraries in pIVS-E. Alu I partial digests of  S. suis    serotype  2  strain  10 DNA were size fractionated (500-1000 bp) on a 0.8% (w/v) agarose gel. The purified fragments were ligated to SmaI and calf intestinal phosphatase digested pIVS-E and the ligation mixtures were transformed to  E. coli  XL2-blue cells. Spectinomycin-resistant colonies were selected. Analysis of the transformants by PCR showed that more then 80% contained an insert. From 15 pools of about 2000-3000 independent  E. coli  transformants, plasmid DNA was isolated. This plasmid DNA was subsequently used for the electrotransformation of  S. suis  strain 10 (Smith et al., 1995). This resulted in approximately 30,000 independent  S. suis  transformants. The transformants were pooled and stored at −80° C. 
 DNA techniques. Routine DNA manipulations and PCR reactions were performed as described by Sambrook et al. (1989). DNA sequences were determined on a 373A DNA Sequencing System (Applied Biosystems). Samples were prepared by using the ABI/PRISM dye terminator cycle sequencing ready reaction kit (Applied Biosystems). Custom-made sequencing primers were purchased from Life Technologies. Sequencing data were assembled and analyzed using the McMollyTetra software package. The BLAST program was used to search for protein sequences similar to the deduced amino acid sequences. 
 PCR reaction mixtures (50 μl) contained 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.3, 1.5 mM MgCl 2 , 50 mM KCl, 0.2 mM of each of the four deoxynucleotide triphosphates, 1 μM of each of the primers and 1 U of AmpliTaq Gold DNA polymerase (Perkin Elmer Applied Biosystems). DNA amplification was carried out in a Perkin Elmer 9600 thermal cycler and the program included an incubation for ten minutes at 95° C. and 30 cycles of one minute at 95° C., two minutes at 56° C. and two minutes at 72° C. 
 Assessment of erythromycin levels in treated piglets. One-week-old specific pathogen-free (SPF) piglets were treated orally with erythromycin stearate (Abbott, 20 or 40 mg body weight kg −1 ) or intramuscularly with erythromycin (Erythrocin 200; Sanofi Santé, 20 or 40 mg body weight kg −1 ). Blood samples were collected 3 hours, 6 hours or 24 hours after the administration of the antibiotics to determine erythromycin levels. 
 Experimental infections. Gnotobiotic Great Yorkshire and Dutch Landrace crossed piglets were obtained from sows by cesarian section. The surgery was performed in sterile flexible film isolators. The piglets were allotted to groups, each having 4 piglets, and were housed in sterile stainless steel incubators. Housing conditions and feeding regimens were as described (Vecht et al., 1989; Vecht et al., 1992). One-week-old piglets were inoculated intravenously with  S. suis  strain 10 (pIVS-E), 10 (pIVS-PE) or 10 (pIVS-RE) as described (Vecht et al., 1989; Vecht et al., 1992, Table 3). Two hours after infection, the pigs were injected intramuscularly with erythromycin for the first time and thereafter received erythromycin twice a day: once intramuscularly (Erythrocin, 40 mg body weight kg −1 ) and once orally (erythromycin stearate, 40 mg body weight kg −1 ). 
 Piglets were monitored twice a day for clinical signs of disease, such as fever, nervous signs and lameness. Blood samples were collected three times a week from each pig. Leukocyte concentrations were determined using a conducting counter (Contraves A. G., Swizerland). To monitor infection with  S. suis  and to check for absence of contaminants, swabs of the nasopharynx and of feces were collected daily. The swabs were directly plated onto Columbia agar containing 6% (v/v) horse blood. After the piglets were killed, they were examined for gross pathological changes. Tissue specimens were collected from the central nervous system, serosae, joints, lungs, heart and tonsils. The tissues were homogenized in the presence of Todd-Hewitt medium using an Ultra-Turrax tissuemizer (Omni International) and frozen at −80° C. in the presence of 15% (v/v) glycerol. 
 Results. 
 Promoter Selection System. 
 The plasmid pIVS-E was constructed to allow introduction of  S. suis  DNA fragments into a number of unique restriction sites in front of a promoterless erythromycin-resistance gene. The plasmid carries the origin of replication of pWVO1, which functions in  E. coli  and in  S. suis  (Smith et al., 1995).  S. suis    strain  10 cells containing pIVS-E were sensitive to 1 μg erythromycin ml −1  on agar plates. In pIVS-PE the promoter of the mrp gene of  S. suis  (Smith et al., 1992), which is highly expressed in vivo as well as in vitro, drives expression of the erythromycin-resistance gene.  S. suis    strain  10 cells containing pIVS-PE were resistant to high concentrations of erythromycin (>256 μg erythromycin ml −1 ) on agar plates. A  S. suis  DNA library in pIVS-E (pIVS-RE) was constructed and 30,000 individual  S. suis  clones or mutants were obtained. As determined by analysis of 24 randomly selected transformants, more than 80% of these clones or mutants contained an insert (results not shown). Moreover, 2% of the clones were resistant to 1 μg erythromycin ml −1  on agar plates indicating the presence of some promoter sequences that were functional in vitro. 
 Selection of Promoters Induced Under Iron-Restricted Conditions. 
 Gene sequences that were specifically induced on agar plates under iron-restricted conditions were selected. For this purpose, about 96,000 c.f.u. were plated under iron-limiting conditions on agar plates containing deferoxamine mesylate and erythromycin. The 1500 colonies that grew on these plates were inoculated onto plates containing erythromycin, deferoxamine mesylate and FeSO 4 . Twenty-four clones showed reduced growth in the presence of FeSO 4 . The inserts of the 24 selected iri clones were amplified by PCR using primers complementary to the 5′ ends of the erythromycin- and spectinomycin-resistance genes and the nucleotide sequences of these fragments were determined. The sequence data showed that the 24 clones contained 18 unique sequences. The 18 sequences were analyzed for similarity to known genes by comparison with the sequences in the GenBank/EMBL and SWISSPROT databases. One sequence, iri31, was identical to cps2A, a previously identified  S. suis  gene putatively involved in the regulation of capsule expression (Smith et al., 1999). Fourteen iri sequences were similar to sequences of known, non- S. suis , genes. Three of these sequences (iri2 (SEQ ID NO: 15), iri1, 6 and 22 (SEQ ID NO: 8), and iri34 (SEQ ID NO:21) were similar to sequences of environmentally regulated genes previously selected by applying the IVET to  V. cholerae  (Camilli and Mekalanos, 1995),  S. aureus  (Lowe et al., 1998) and  P. aeruginosa  (Wang et al., 1996), respectively. One, contained in iri1, 6, and 22 (SEQ ID NO: 8), was similar to the agrA gene of  Staphylococcus aureus , a key locus involved in the regulation of numerous virulence proteins. Three iri sequences had no significant similarity to any sequences in the databases (Table 2). 
 Conditions for Selection of Promoter Sequences in Piglets. 
 To determine the antibiotic treatment regime required for a successful selection of in vivo-expressed promoter sequences, piglets were treated with different concentrations of erythromycin once a day. The erythromycin was administered either orally or intramuscularly. Levels of erythromycin in sera were determined 3, 6 or 24 hours after treatment over one week. High erythromycin levels were detected three hours and six hours after both treatments (results not shown). However, 24 hours after the treatments, the levels decreased dramatically. Based on these data, we hypothesized that for efficient promoter selection, it was necessary to treat the animals twice a day with erythromycin (40 mg kg −1 ), once intramuscularly (at 9 a.m.) and once orally (at 4 p.m.). 
 To test this hypothesis, pigs were inoculated either with  S. suis  strain 10 (pIVS-PE) or with strain 10 (pIVS-E). In pIVS-PE, the promoter of the mrp gene of  S. suis  (Smith et al., 1992), which is highly expressed in vivo as well as in vitro, drives expression of the erythromycin-resistance gene. The control plasmid, pIVS-E, does not contain a promoter in front of the erythromycin-resistance gene. The strains were inoculated intravenously or intranasally. All pigs infected with strain 10 (pIVS-PE) showed specific  S. suis  symptoms (Table 3) and, except for one, all pigs died in the course of the experiment. Moreover, high numbers of bacteria were isolated from the central nervous system, the serosae and the joints. In contrast, none of the pigs inoculated with strain 10 (pIVS-E) showed specific clinical signs of disease and all survived the infection until the end of the experiment. Moreover, bacteria were not isolated from the central nervous system, the serosae or the joints of these animals. These data demonstrated that in vivo-expressed sequences could be selected from pigs using the applied antibiotic treatment regimen. 
 Selection of Gene Sequences Expressed In Vivo in Piglets. 
 Piglets were inoculated intravenously with different doses (5×10 5  to 5×10 8  c.f.u.) of the  S. suis  library (Table 3) and treated with erythromycin as described herein. Specific signs of disease developed in all animals three to eight days after infection (Table 3). High numbers of bacteria were recovered from tissues (central nervous system, joints, serosae, lung, liver, spleen, heart and kidney) of the individual piglets. Analysis of the recovered bacteria showed that a limited number of different clones were present in each of the bacterial samples isolated from the diseased pigs. For example, 30 randomly selected clones from the joints of one pig all possessed identical DNA inserts as assessed by PCR and DNA sequence analysis (results not shown). In addition, at 80% of the 62 sample sites analyzed, four randomly selected clones were identical. However, from different tissues of a single animal, different clones or mutants could be isolated. On the other hand, identical clones could be isolated from different, as well as from corresponding, tissues of different animals. These findings indicated that a limited number of clones had been selected in vivo and were greatly enriched in the affected tissues. The observed selection was not tissue specific. Further, none of the selected clones failed to grow on agar plates that contained 1 μg erythromycin ml −1 . 
 Two-hundred forty-five clones were analyzed by PCR and partial sequence analysis. Among these, 22 unique ivs clones were found. The 22 sequences were analyzed for similarity to sequences of known genes by comparison with the GenBank/EMBL and SWISSPROT databases (Table 4). The sequences of two genes showed similarity to genes encoding putative virulence factors: ivs21, 26 and 30 which was identical to the epf gene, a previously identified  S. suis  gene, putatively involved in virulence (Smith et al., 1993; Smith et al., 1996); and ivs31 (SEQ ID NO: 37), which was similar to the fibronectin-binding protein of  S. gordonii . Moreover, the sequences of two ivs genes (ivs25 (SEQ ID NO: 24) and ivs6, 7, 13 and 14 (SEQ ID NO: 43)) were homologous to two environmentally regulated ivi genes, previously identified using IVET selection in other bacterial species (Camilli and Mekalanos, 1995; Lowe et al., 1998). Four ivs sequences (ivs25 (SEQ ID NO: 34); ivs23 and 24 (SEQ ID NO: 33), ivs2, 4 and 28 (SEQ ID NO: 31); and ivs6, 7, 13 and 14 (SEQ ID NO: 43)) were also found when the library was selected using iron-restricted conditions. The remainder of the sequences showed similarity to sequences of known, non- S. suis  genes, including two genes showing similarity to mobile elements and five genes showing similarity to genes of unknown function. 
 The identification of environmentally regulated genes of  S. suis    serotype  2 by the use of iron-restricted conditions and by experimental infection of piglets is described. Eighteen unique iri genes and 22 unique ivs genes were found. None of the ivs genes was exclusively expressed in vivo. Four iri genes were identical to four clones selected in vivo. The selected gene sequences encode for potential virulence factors, expand our knowledge about the pathogenesis of  S. suis  infections in pigs and are of value in control of the disease either by the development of effective vaccines or by the development of new diagnostic methods. A promoter trap was used to identify environmentally regulated  S. suis  genes expressed under specific conditions, i.e., during iron-restriction or during experimental infection. This system differs from the antibiotic-based IVET system described for  S. typhimurium  (Mahan et al., 1995) in two ways. One is that the lacZ reporter gene fusion is omitted in our vector constructions because inclusion of the lacZ gene resulted in structural instability of the vector. The other difference is that a plasmid system was used rather than a chromosomal integration system. A plasmid system was used because the low transformation efficiency of  S. suis  (Smith et al., 1995) might prevent the generation of a complete gene library using a chromosomal integration system. 
 From the data, it is evident that a number of inducible and environmentally regulated sequences were selected. Four iri genes were identical to four ivs genes. Because most bacteria require iron for their growth and because there is a limited amount of free iron available within the host (Payne, 1993), it might be expected that the expression of some ivs genes is regulated by iron. With the in vivo selection system, tissue-specific colonization was not observed: clones isolated from one piglet were also isolated from other piglets from corresponding as well as from different tissues. This might be due to the mechanisms involved in the molecular pathogenesis of  S. suis  infections in pigs. Furthermore, it was striking and different from the observations made with IVET systems that only a limited number of clones could be selected. In addition, we were not able to demonstrate that we selected for gene sequences that are exclusively expressed in vivo. This could be explained either by the absence of promoter sequences exclusively expressed in vivo among the 22 identified ivs genes, and/or by the inability of this plasmid-based system to identify such sequences due to gene dose effects. 
 A number of interesting genes were selected. Two ivs genes showed similarity to genes encoding putative virulence factors. Ivs21, 26 and 30 were shown to be identical to the epf gene of  S. suis  (Smith et al., 1993), which is found in virulent strains of  S. suis    serotypes  1 and 2 (Stockhofe-Zurwieden et al., 1996; Vecht et al., 1991; Vecht et al., 1992). Ivs31 (SEQ ID NO: 37) showed similarity to the fibronectin/fibrinogen-binding protein of  S. gordonii  (accession no. X65164) and group A Streptococci (Courtney et al., 1994). In Streptococci, fibronectin/fibrinogen-binding proteins play an important role in adhesion to host cells and are considered to be important virulence factors. The selection of these two ivs genes demonstrated the selectivity of the system and might be indicative for the relevance of the other ivs genes in the pathogenesis of  S. suis  infections in pigs. The performance of the system was further demonstrated by the observation that two ivs genes, ivs25 (SEQ ID NO: 34) and ivs6, 7, 13 and 14 (SEQ ID NO: 43) showed similarity to environmentally regulated genes previously identified using an IVET selection system in other bacterial species. 
 Ivs25 (SEQ ID NO: 34) showed significant similarity to the sapR gene of  S. mutans  (accession no. P72485) and  Lactobacillus  sake Lb706 (Axelsson and Holck, 1995) as well as to the agrA gene of  S. aureus  (Projan and Novick, 1997), both of which encode response regulator proteins of bacterial two-component signal-transduction systems, thus mediating the response to an environmental signal (Projan and Novick, 1997). Use of an IVET selection system for  S. aureus  in mice selected the region preceding the agrA gene, suggesting induction of agrA expression under in vivo conditions (Lowe et al., 1998). Moreover, in  S. aureus , the agr locus was shown to play an important role in altering the expression of a considerable number of virulence factors in response to cell density (Projan and Novick, 1997). 
 Clones ivs6, 7, 13 and 14 (SEQ ID NO: 43) showed similarity to a gene, ivi VI, previously identified by IVET selection in  V. cholerae  (Camilli and Mekalanos, 1995). The function of iviVI is unknown. However, the genes showed similarity to members of the ATP-binding cassette family of transporters. The sequenced portion of ivs6, 7, 13 and 14 (SEQ ID NO: 43) included an N-terminal ATP-binding Walker A box motif, which is highly conserved in this transporter family. 
 Four ivs genes were identical to four iri genes. The first gene, ivs23 and 24 (SEQ ID NO: 33), which is identical to iri24 (SEQ ID NO: 17), showed similarity to cpsY of  S. agalactiae  (Koskiniemi et al., 1998) and to oxyR of various organisms (Demple, 1999). CpsY of  S. agalactiae  is involved in the regulation of capsule expression and environmental induction of expression of the cpsY gene has been suggested by Koskiniemi et al. (1998). In  S. suis , ivs23 and 24 (SEQ ID NO: 33) and iri24 (SEQ ID NO: 17) are not linked to the capsular locus (Smith et al., 1999). The oxyR gene is the central regulator of oxidative stress response in  E. coli  (Demple, 1999) and approximately ten genes are under the control of the OxyR protein. The second gene, ivs2, 4 and 28 (SEQ ID NO: 31), which is identical to iri10 and 20 (SEQ ID NO: 9), showed similarity to the yoaE gene of  E. coli  (accession no. P76262), a putative ABC transporter protein. The third and the fourth genes, ivs25 (SEQ ID NO: 34) and ivs6, 7, 13 and 14 (SEQ ID NO: 43) were identical to iri1, 6 and 22 (SEQ ID NO: 8) and iri2 (SEQ ID NO: 15), respectively. These genes also showed similarity to ivi genes selected using IVET in other bacterial species. 
 Based on data presented by Niven et al. (1999), selection of iri genes of  S. suis  is not expected. The authors described that  S. suis  does not require iron for growth. However, in their studies the authors used media reduced from iron by using ethylenediamine di-o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (EDDA). Therefore, the different conditions used in vitro may explain the different results obtained. 
 Two of the  S. suis  ivs genes, ivs1 (SEQ ID NO: 25) and ivs8 (SEQ ID NO: 44), showed similarity to transposon sequences. Moreover, one  S. suis  ivs gene, ivs2, 4 and 28 (SEQ ID NO: 31), had a GC % that was considerably higher than the composition of the rest of the selected genes. It is striking that in  S. typhimurium , several of the ivi clones that are required for full virulence have been found to be associated with mobile elements. Their atypical base composition and codon usage has led to the suggestion that they have been acquired from other bacterial species by horizontal transfer (Conner et al., 1998). 
 Our screen also identified five ivs genes that showed similarity to sequences encoding proteins of unknown function. These genes are not standard housekeeping or metabolic genes. 
 Besides the four ivs/iri genes, a considerable number of other iri genes have been selected in this study by plating the library under iron-restricted conditions. Interestingly, one of the selected iri genes, iri31, is identical to the cps2A gene of  S. suis . This gene was previously isolated as a part of the capsular locus of  S. suis  serotype 2 (Smith et al., 1999) and was implicated in the regulation of capsular polysaccharide biosynthesis (Kolkman et al., 1997; Smith et al., 1999). Moreover, because the capsule of  S. suis  is expressed in larger size after in vivo growth when compared to growth in vitro (Quessy et al., 1994), regulated expression of cps2A might be expected. Another iri gene, iri7 (SEQ ID NO: 23), showed similarity to the rpgG gene of  S. mutans . This gene was shown to be required for the biosynthesis of rhamnose-glucose polysaccharide (Yamashita et al., 1999). Because rhanmose is part of the polysaccharide capsule in  S. suis  serotype 2 (Elliott and Tai, 1978), a role of the iri7 (SEQ ID NO: 23) gene in capsule biosynthesis can be proposed. Iri34 (SEQ ID NO: 21) showed similarity to the  np  16 gene, previously identified using IVET selection in  P. aeruginosa  and suspected to encode threonine dehydratase activity (Wang et al., 1996). Together with the observation that 4 iri genes could be selected by the in vivo approach, these data show that the iri genes encode important virulence factors for  S. suis.    
 Contribution of Fibronectin-Binding Protein to Pathogenesis of  Streptococcus suis    Serotype  2. 
   Streptococcus suis  causes severe infections, such as meningitis, septicemia, and arthritis, in piglets. The animals often do not survive the infection (6, 28). Occasionally,  S. suis  causes septicemia and meningitis in humans (3). The pathogenesis of an  S. suis  infection is rarely understood. Sows are symptomless carriers of  S. suis  on their tonsils and pass the bacteria on to their piglets. The piglets cannot cope with the bacteria and subsequently develop the specific symptoms of an  S. suis  infection. Until now, 35 capsular serotypes of  S. suis  have been described (26), but  serotype  2 strains are most often isolated from diseased piglets. The capsule is an important virulence factor since piglets infected with an acapsular mutant of  S. suis    serotype  2 strains do not develop any clinical symptoms (22). Bacterial proteins have been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis as well (2, 26). The expression of murimidase-released protein (MRP), extracellular factor (EF) and suilysin was shown to be strongly associated with pathogenic strains of  S. suis  serotype 2 (1, 29, 30). Since isogenic mutants lacking MRP and EF and isogenic mutants lacking suilysin were still pathogenic in young piglets, these proteins are not absolutely required for virulence (2, 23). Recently, a new virulence factor was identified (21) by using a complementation approach. The function of this virulence factor in the pathogenesis has to be further investigated. 
 Many important virulence factors are environmentally regulated and are induced at specific stages of the infection process (15). To identify these genes in  S. suis , promoters and their downstream sequences that are “on” during experimental  S. suis  infection of piglets (20) were cloned. Twenty-two in vivo selected (ivs) genes were found. Two of the ivs genes were directly linked to virulence since homology was found to genes in the database that encode for known virulence factors. One of these ivs genes (ivs-21) was identical to the epf gene of virulent  S. suis    serotype  2 strains (30). The other (ivs-31) (SEQ ID NO: 37) showed homology to genes encoding fibronectin-/fibrinogen-binding proteins of  Streptococcus gordonii  (GenBank accession no. X65164) and  Streptococcus pyogenes  FBP54 (8). A considerable number of fibronectin-binding proteins of various bacterial species have been shown to be important virulence factors (12). In  S. pyogenes , FBP54 was shown to be expressed in the human host and to preferentially mediate adherence to human buccal epithelial cells (7). It was shown that the hFBP54 protein induces protective immunity against  S. pyogenes  challenge in mice (13). 
 A fibronectin-/fibrinogen-binding protein of  S. suis  (FBPS) is described herein and the sequence of fbps was determined. Binding studies showed that purified FBPS bound fibronectin and fibrinogen. A contribution of FBPS to the pathogenesis of  S. suis    serotype  2 was found. 
 Materials and Methods. 
 Bacterial strains and growth conditions. The bacterial strains and plasmids used in this study are listed in Table 5 . S. suis  strains were grown in Todd-Hewitt broth (code CM 189; Oxoid, Ltd.) and plated on Columbia blood base agar plates (code CM331; Oxoid, Ltd., London, United Kingdom), containing 6% (vol/vol) horse blood.  E. coli  strains were grown in Luria Broth (17) and plated on Luria Broth containing 1.5% (wt/vol) agar. If required, antibiotics were added at the following concentrations: 50 μg/ml of spectinomycin (Sigma, St. Louis, Mo.) for  E. coli  and 100 μg/ml for  S. suis , 100 μg/ml of ampicillin (Boehringer, Mannheim, Germany) for  E. coli  and 25 μg/ml of kanamycin (Boehringer) for  E. coli.    
 DNA techniques and sequence analysis. Routine DNA manipulations were performed as described by Sambrook et al. (19). DNA sequences were determined on a 373A DNA Sequencing System (Applied Biosystems, Warrington, Great Britain). Samples were prepared by use of an ABI Prism dye terminator cycle sequencing ready reaction kit (Applied Biosystems). Sequencing data were assembled and analyzed using the Lasergene program (DNASTAR). The BLAST software package was used to search for protein sequences homologous to the deduced amino acid sequences in the GenBank/EMBL databases. 
 Southern blotting and hybridization. Chromosomal DNA was isolated as described by Sambrook et al. (19). DNA fragments were separated on 0.8% agarose gels and transferred to GeneScreen Plus hybridization transfer membrane (NEN™ Life Science Products, Boston, USA) as described by Sambrook et al. (19). DNA probes of the fbps and spc genes were labeled with (α- 32 P)dCTP (3,000 Ci/mmol; Amersham Life Science, Buckinghamshire, Great Britain) by use of a random primed DNA labeling kit (Boehringer). The DNA on the blots was pre-hybridized for at least 30 minutes at 65° C. and subsequently hybridized for 16 hours at 65° C. with the appropriate DNA probes in a buffer containing 0.5 M sodium phosphate (pH 7.2), 1 mM EDTA and 7% sodium dodecyl sulphate. After hybridization, the membranes were washed twice with a buffer containing 40 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.2), 1 mM EDTA and 5% sodium dodecyl sulphate for 30 minutes at 65° C. and twice with a buffer containing 40 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.2), 1 mM EDTA and 1% sodium dodecyl sulphate for 30 minutes at 65° C. The signal was detected on a phosphor-imager (Storm; Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, Calif.). 
 Construction of a fbps knock-out mutant. To construct the mutant strain 10ΔFBPS, the pathogenic strain 10 (27, 29) of  S. suis    serotype  2 was electrotransformed (24) with the plasmid pFBPS7-47. In this plasmid, the fbps gene was inactivated by the insertion of a spectinomycin-resistance gene. To create pFBPS7-47 ( FIG. 1 ), the 382 bp SalI-SalI fragment of pFBPS7-46 was replaced by the 1.2 kb EcoRV-SmaI fragment of pIC-Spc, containing the spectinomycin resistance gene, after the SalI sites of the vector were made blunt ( FIG. 1 ). After electrotransformation of  strain  10 with pFBPS7-47, spectinomycin-resistant colonies were selected on Columbia agar plates containing 100 μg/ml of spectinomycin. Southern blotting and hybridization experiments were used to select for double cross-over integration events (data not shown). 
 FBPS expression construct. To construct an FBPS expression plasmid, the QIAexpress Kit (Qiagen GmbH, Hilden, Germany) was used. The primers corresponded to positions 250 to 272 and from 1911 to 1892 of the fbps gene. The sequences of these primers were 5′(GCGGATCCGATGACGATGACAAATCTTTTGACGGATTTTTTTTAC)3′ (SEQ ID NO: 46) and 5′(CCCAAGCTTGGGCATGAACTAGATTTTCATGG)3′ (SEQ ID NO: 47). The primers contained restriction sites for BamHI and HindIII, respectively, to amplify the fbps gene from pFBPS7-47. The amplified PCR product was digested with BamHI and HindIII and the 1.8 kb fbps gene was cloned into pQE-30 digested with BamHI and HindIII, yielding pQE-30-FBPS. pQE-30-FBPS was transformed to M15 (pREP4). 
 Purification of FBPS. M15 (pREP4) (pQE-30-FBPS) was used to express and purify the FBPS using the QIAexpressionist™ (Qiagen). In short, M15 (pREP4) (pQE-30-FBPS) cells were grown exponentially; 1 mM IPTG was added and the cells were allowed to grow another four hours at 37° C. Subsequently, cells were harvested and lysed. The cleared supernatants were loaded onto Ni 2+ -NTA agarose columns. FBPS containing a 6×HIS tag was bound to the Ni 2+ -column. The columns were washed and the protein was eluted. Different buffers were used for native and for denaturing purification. FBPS purified under denaturing conditions was renaturated on a Ni 2+ -NTA column by using a linear 6 M-1 M urea gradient in 500 mM NaCl, 20% glycerol and 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH7.4), containing protease inhibitors (25 μg/ml of pefabloc, 0.7 μg/ml of pepstatin, 1 μg/ml of aprotinin, 0.5 μg/ml of leupeptin). All procedures were performed according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The 6×HIS tag was removed from the protein by incubating purified FBPS in 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 50 mM NaCl, 2 mM CaCl 2  and 0.5 U of light chain enterokinase (New England Biolabs, Beverly, Mass.) for 16 hours at RT. 
 Immunization of rabbits with FBPS. Purified and renaturated FBPS was used to immunize two rabbits. To remove urea, the protein was dialyzed against phosphate buffered saline (136 mM NaCl; 2.68 mM KCl; 8.1 mM Na 2 HPO 4 ; 2.79 mM KH 2 PO 4  (pH 7.2)) over night at 4° C. Seven days before immunization, blood was collected from the rabbits to determine the natural titers against FBPS. At day one, those rabbits with negative anti-FBPS titers were immunized intramuscularly with two times 0.5 ml of 100 μg/ml of FBPS in a water-in-oil emulsion (Specol; ID-Lelystad). At  day  28, rabbits were immunized for the second time using the same amount of protein and the same route of immunization. Three weeks after the second immunization, the rabbits were sacrificed and blood was collected. The blood was coagulated and serum was collected and used for immuno detection of FBPS. 
 Immunodetection of FBPS. Proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) by standard procedures (19). Proteins in the gel were visualized using SYPRO-orange (Molecular Probes, Sunnyvale, Calif.) staining according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Signals were detected on a phosphor imager (Storm; Molecular Dynamics). A known bovine serum albumin concentration range was used as a standard to calculate the amounts of protein present in the gel. The Molecular Dynamics program was used for the calculations. 
 Proteins were transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane by standard procedures (19). The membranes were blocked in Blotto: Tris-buffered saline (TBS) (50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl) containing 4% skimmed milk and 0.05 % Tween  20 at room temperature (RT) for one hour. To detect recombinant purified FBPS, membranes were incubated with a monoclonal antibody against the 6×HIS tag (Clontech, Palo Alto, Calif.) in a 1:10,000 dilution in Blotto-TBS (1:1) at RT for one hour, followed by an incubation with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated anti-mouse antibody in a 1:1,000 dilution in Blotto-TBS (1:1) at RT for one hour. Reactivity of purified FBPS was tested by using a convalescent serum of a pig that had survived an  S. suis  infection. Nitrocellulose membranes were incubated with the polyclonal pig serum in a 1:200 dilution in Blotto-TBS (1:1) at RT for one hour, followed by incubation at RT for one hour with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated anti-swine antibody in a 1:2,000 dilution in Blotto-TBS (1:1). As a substrate, Nitro Blue Tetrazolium (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) bromochloroindolyl phosphate (Sigma) was used. All washing steps were performed in Blotto-TBS (1:1). 
 Fibronectin and fibrinogen binding. Binding studies were performed by indirect Western blotting. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane as described herein. The membranes were blocked in MPBS: PBS containing 4% skimmed milk and 0.05 % Tween  20. Subsequently, the membrane was incubated with 5 μg/ml of human fibronectin (fn) (Sigma) or 5 μg/ml of human fibrinogen (fgn) (Sigma) in PBS containing 5% fetal calf serum, 2% NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 80 at RT for one hour. To detect bound fibronectin and fibrinogen, the membranes were incubated with horse-radish peroxidase-conjugated anti-fibronectin (DAKO) or anti-fibrinogen (DAKO) antibodies in a 1:1,000 dilution in PBS containing 5% fetal calf serum, 2% NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 80 at RT for one hour. The signal was visualized by using ECL +  (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, N.J.) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Signals were detected on a phosphor imager (Storm; Molecular Dynamics). All washing steps were performed in MPBS-PBS (1:1). 
 Experimental infections. Germ-free piglets, cross-breeds of Great Yorkshire and Dutch Landrace, were obtained from sows by cesarean section. The surgery was performed in sterile flexible film isolators. Piglets were allotted to groups of four and were housed in sterile stainless steel incubators. Housing conditions and feeding regimens were as described (27, 29). Six-day-old piglets were inoculated intranasally with about 10 7  cfu of  Bordetella bronchiseptica  92932 to predispose the piglets to infection with  S. suis . Two days later, the piglets were inoculated intranasally with 10 6  cfu of  S. suis    strain  10 plus 106 cfu of  S. suis  strain 10ΔFBPS. To determine differences in virulence between wild-type and mutant strains, LD 50  values should be determined. To do this, large numbers of piglets are required. For ethical reasons, this is not acceptable. To circumvent this problem, co-colonization studies were performed. 
 To monitor for the presence of  S. suis  and  B. bronchiseptica  and to check for absence of contaminants, swabs taken from the nasopharynx and the feces were cultured three times a week. The swabs were plated directly onto Columbia agar containing 6% horse blood or grown for 48 hours in Todd-Hewitt broth and subsequently plated onto Columbia agar containing 6% horse blood. Pigs were monitored twice a day for clinical signs and symptoms, such as fever, nervous signs, and lameness. Blood samples from each pig were collected three times a week. Leukocytes were counted with a cell counter. The piglets were killed when specific signs of an  S. suis  infection were observed, such as arthritis or meningitis, or when the pigs became mortally ill. The other piglets were killed two weeks after inoculation with  S. suis  and examined the same way as the piglets that were killed based on their clinical symptoms. All piglets were examined for pathological changes. 
 Tissue specimens from heart, lung, liver, kidney, spleen, and tonsil, and from the organs specifically involved in an  S. suis  infection (central nervous system (CNS), serosae, and joints) were sliced with a scalpel or a tissuenizer. Tissue slices from each organ or site were resuspended in 2-25 ml of Todd-Hewitt containing 15% glycerol depending on the size of the tissue slice. The suspension was centrifuged at 3,000 rpm for five minutes. The supernatant was collected and serial dilutions were plated on Columbia agar containing 6% horse blood, as well as on Columbia agar plates containing 6% horse blood and 100 μg/ml of spectinomycin to quantitate the number of wild-type and mutant bacteria present. The number of mutant strain 10ΔFBPS cells was determined by counting the number of CFU on the appropriate serial dilution on the selective plates; the number of wild- type strain  10 cells was determined by counting the number of CFU on the appropriate serial dilution on the Columbia Agar blood plates of which the number of CFU counted on the selective plates was subtracted. When wild-type and mutant bacteria were found in tissues, the ratio of wild-type and mutant strain was determined again by toothpicking about 100 individual colonies onto both Columbia Agar plates and onto Columbia Agar plates containing 100 μg/ml spectinomycin. 
 All animal experiments were approved by the ethical committee of the Institute for Animal Science and Health in accordance with the Dutch law on animal experiments. 
 Nucleotide sequence accession number. The nucleotide sequence data of fbps have been submitted to GenBank, in which the sequence is listed under accession no. AF438158 and were deposited under Accession number CBS 130867 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty with the Centraalbureau voor Schimmelcultures (CBS), Uppsalalaan 8, P.O. Box 85167., Post Code 3508 AD, Utrecht, The Netherlands, an International Depository Authority, on Oct. 19, 2011. 
 Cloning of the  S. suis  fbps gene. One of the in vivo selected genes (ivs-31) (SEQ ID NO: 37) (20) showed homology to the 5′ part of genes encoding for FlpA and FBP54, fibronectin-binding proteins (FnBP) of  Streptococcus gordonii  (GenBank accession no. X65164) and  Streptococcus pyogenes  (8), respectively. To clone the entire fbps gene of  S. suis , ivs31 (SEQ ID NO: 37) was used as a probe to identify a chromosomal DNA fragment of  S. suis    serotype  2 containing flanking fbps sequences. A 5 kb EcoRI fragment was identified and cloned in pGEM7Zf(+) yielding pFBPS7-46 ( FIG. 1 ). Sequence analysis revealed that this fragment contained the entire fbps gene of  S. suis    serotype  2. 
 An open reading frame of 1659 bp coding for a polypeptide of 553 amino acids was found. The putative ATG start codon is preceded by a sequence similar to ribosome binding sites of gram-positive bacteria. Further upstream, two putative promoter sequences could be identified. Upstream of these promoter sequences of fbps, a direct repeat was found that could serve as a transcription terminator of the gene located 5′ of fbps. Downstream of fbps, a gene that showed homology to an alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase was found. This gene is transcribed in the opposite direction of fbps. The deduced amino acid sequence was aligned with that of several previously identified FnBPs from other bacteria. As expected, FBPS was substantially homologous to FlpA of  S. gordonii  (76%) and also showed homology to FnBP's of other organisms, like  Streptococcus pneumoniae  (73%),  S. pyogenes  (69%),  Lactococcus lactis  (59%), and  Bacillus subtilis  (41%). Compared to the sequence of FBP54, FBPS has a longer N-terminus with 76 additional amino acids. This longer N-terminus was also seen in other organisms like  S. gordonii, S. pneumoniae  and  B. subtilis . In FBP54, the primary fibronectin-/fibrinogen-binding domain was localized to its N-terminal part, to the first 89 amino acids (8). Over this region, the homology of FBPS to FBP54 is very high (80%), suggesting that FBPS can bind both fibronectin and fibrinogen. 
 Binding of FBPS to fibronectin and fibrinogen. To confirm the binding of FBPS of  S. suis  to fibronectin (fn) and fibrinogen (fgn), FBPS was purified under native conditions. A protein expression construct, which expresses FBPS with a 6×HIS tag fused to the N-terminus, was used for purification. Four hundred μg of FBPS was purified from 50 ml of exponential-phase  E. coli  cells after induction with IPTG. The purity of this FPBS was determined with SDS-PAGE and Western blotting ( FIG. 2 ). The induced  E. coli  lysate contained a broad range of proteins, among which the 64 kDa protein FBPS was present (panel A, lane 1). After purification, highly purified FBPS with 6×HIS tag was obtained (panel A, lane 2). When both samples were incubated with a monoclonal antibody against the 6×HIS tag, FBPS was the only protein that was detected (panel B). 
 To determine whether FBPS binds fn and fgn, a Western blot containing purified FBPS was incubated with soluble human fn and human fgn ( FIG. 3 , panels A and B). Specific binding of fn and fgn to FBPS was detected. No binding of fn and fgn to BSA, a negative control protein, was observed. To exclude possible background signals due to immunoglobulin-binding of FBPS, the same experiment was performed without addition of fibronectin or fibrinogen. No binding was found ( FIG. 3 , panels C and D) indicating that the binding was specific for fibronectin and fibrinogen. To control whether the binding of fn and fgn to FBPS was not mediated by the 6×HIS tag, the tag was removed by an enterokinase treatment.  FIG. 3 , panels E and F, show that FBPS without the 6×HIS tag still efficiently bound to fn and fgn. Therefore, it appears that FBPS can specifically bind to fn and fgn. 
 Immunogenicity of FBPS. Since it was shown that FBP54 induced a protective immune response in mice against a lethal dose of  S. pyogenes  (13), it was determined whether purified FBPS was recognized by convalescent serum of a pig that survived an  S. suis  infection. As shown in  FIG. 2  panel C, the FBPS reacted with this anti-serum. When the same experiment was performed with non-immune serum of an SPF piglet, no band of the size of FBPS was detected (data not shown). These findings indicate that FBPS is expressed in vivo and that the protein is indeed immunogenic in young pigs. 
 Distribution of the fbps gene among the 35  S. suis  serotypes. Since we were interested in a cross-protective vaccine candidate, the presence of the fbps gene among the various  S. suis  serotypes was analyzed. Ivs-31 (SEQ ID NO: 37), the clone containing the promoter and the 5′-part of the fbps gene, was radiolabeled and chromosomal DNA of the reference strains of the 35 different  S. suis  serotypes was hybridized with this probe. The three different phenotypes of  S. suis    serotype  2, a pathogenic, a non-pathogenic and a weak pathogenic strain, were included in this study. The fbps gene was present in all  S. suis  serotypes and phenotypes except for  serotypes  32 and 34 ( FIG. 4 ). 
 Role of FBPS in pathogenesis. To test the role of FBPS in the pathogenesis of  S. suis , an isogenic knock-out mutant of FBPS was constructed in  strain  10, strain 10ΔFBPS. Since upstream of fbps a direct repeat was found that could serve as a transcription terminator and downstream of fbps a gene showing homology to an alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase was found that is transcribed in the opposite direction, polar effects to genes upstream or downstream of fbps are not expected. To verify that the mutant strain 10ΔFBPS did not produce FBPS, protoplasts of  strain  10 and strain 10ΔFBPS were subjected to SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. FBPS was detected using a polyclonal antiserum raised against purified FBPS. It was shown that strain 10ΔFBPS expressed no FBPS, while  strain  10 did express FBPS (data not shown). Subsequently, the virulence of this mutant strain was tested in an experimental infection in piglets. 
 The mutant strain 10ΔFBPS was used in a competition challenge experiment with the wild-type strain to determine the relative attenuation of the mutant strain. Using in vitro conditions, the growth rates of the wild-type and mutant strain in Todd-Hewitt medium were found to be essentially identical (data not shown). Wild-type and mutant strain were inoculated at an actual ratio of 0.65 (1.63×10 6  cfu of wild-type bacteria ml −1  and 3.09×10 6  cfu of mutant bacteria ml −1 ). During the experiment, piglets that developed specific  S. suis  symptoms (meningitis, arthritis, or mortal illness) were killed. Piglets that did not develop these symptoms were killed at the end of the experiment. From all piglets, the ratio of wild-type and mutant strain in various organs was determined. 
 As shown in  FIG. 5 , panel A, similar numbers of wild-type and mutant bacteria were re-isolated from tonsils. The ratio was similar to the input ratio (ratio varied from 0.33-0.85, average 0.61). This indicates that the efficiency of colonization of wild-type and mutant strain on tonsils was essentially identical. Apparently, FBPS is not strictly required for colonization of the tonsils of the piglets. Three out of four piglets developed clinical signs specific for an  S. suis  infection. Two piglets (4664 and 4666) showed clinical signs of arthritis and one piglet (4668) showed clear central nervous signs. The fourth piglet did not develop any clinical signs. These observations coincided with pathomorphological abnormalities of the specific organs of an  S. suis  infection in post-mortem sections. 
 As shown in  FIG. 5 , panel B, exclusively wild-type bacteria were re-isolated from the joints of piglet 4664 and from the CNS of piglet 4668. The numbers of CFU of wild-type bacteria that were re-isolated from these specific organs were very high, while no mutant bacteria were found. From the joints of pig 4666, low numbers of both wild-type and mutant bacteria were re-isolated in a ratio of 0.84 (1.0×10 2  CFU of wild-type bacteria and 5.2×10 2  CFU of mutant bacteria), a ratio essentially identical to the input ratio ( FIG. 5 , panel B). Southern blot experiments using the fbps and the spc genes as probes, confirmed that the mutant bacteria isolated from the joint of pig 4666 were indeed identical to the input mutant bacteria. Taken together, these data indicate, that the FBPS mutant is capable of reaching and colonizing the specific  S. suis  organs (at least the joints), but that the mutant is far less efficiently recovered from organs than the wild type. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 1 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Bacterial strains and plasmids. 
 
 
 
 
 Strain/plasmid 
 relevant characteristics* 
 source/reference 
 
 
   
 
 
 Strain 
   
   
 
 
 
 E. coli 
 
 
 
 XL2 blue 
   
 Stratagene 
 
 
 
 S. suis 
 
 
 
 10 
   virulent serotype  2 strain 
 (Vecht et al., 1992) 
 
 
 Plasmid 
 
 
 pKUN19-spc 
 replication functions pUC, Amp R , Spc R   
 (Konings et al., 1987, Smith et al., 1995) 
 
 
 pGKV210 
 replication functions pWVO1, Cm R , Em R   
 (Van der Vossen et al., 1987) 
 
 
 pE194 
 Em R   
 (Horinouchi & Weisblum, 1987) 
 
 
 pMR11 
 pKUN19 containing  S. suis  mrp gene 
 (Smith et al., 1992) 
 
 
 pIVS-E 
 replication functions pWVO1, Spc R , promoterless 
 this work 
 
 
   
 emR gene of pE194 
 
 
 pIVS-PE 
 pIVS-E containing promoter of mrp preceding the 
 this work 
 
 
   
 promoterless emR gene 
 
 
 pIVS-RE 
 pIVS-E containing random  S. suis  sequences preceding 
 this work 
 
 
   
 the promoterless emR gene 
 
 
   
 
 
 *Spc R : spectinomycin resistant Amp R : ampicillin resistant Em R : erythromycin resistant Cm R : chloramphenicol resistant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Iron-restriction induced  S. suis  genes. 
 
 
 
 
   
 Insert 
   
 Data base homology 
   
   
 
 
 Clone 
 (bp) 
 GC % 
 (accession no.) 
 Function of homolog 
 % Identity 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 Regulatory functions 
 
 
 
 
 iri 1, 6, 22 
 800 
 34 
   S. mutans SapR  (U75483) 
 response regulator protein 
 44 
 
 
 (SEQ ID 
   
   
   S. aureus  AgrA (X52543) 
 response regulator protein 
 51 
 
 
 NO: 8) 
   
   
   S. aureus  Ivi2 
 
 
 iri 24 (SEQ 
 850 
 38 
   S. agalactiae  CpsY (CAB36982) 
 regulation capsule expression 
 46 
 
 
 ID NO: 17) 
   
   
   E. coli  OxyR (P11721) 
 oxidative stress regulator 
 51 
 
 
 iri 23 (SEQ 
 1000 
 38 
   B. subtilis  YvyD (P28368) 
 sigma-54 modulator homologue 
 44 
 
 
 ID NO: 16) 
 
 
 
 
 Metabolic functions 
 
 
 
 
 iri 7 (SEQ ID 
 800 
 39 
   S. mutans  RgpG (Q9XDW8) 
 rhamnose-glucose biosynthesis 
 76 
 
 
 NO: 23) 
 
 
 iri 11 (SEQ 
 700 
 34 
   L. lactis  NrdD (Q9ZAX6) 
 anaerobic ribonucleotide reductase 
 51 
 
 
 ID NO: 10) 
 
 
 iri 14 (SEQ 
 500 
 38 
   S. pneumoniae  SulB (Q54614) 
 dihydrofolate synthetase 
 41 
 
 
 ID NO: 12) 
 
 
 iri 16 (SEQ 
 850 
 48 
   B. subtilis  TrmU (O35020) 
 RNA methyltransferase 
 62 
 
 
 ID NO: 13) 
 
 
 iri 32 (SEQ 
 300 
 41 
   C. histolyticum  RuvB (O9ZNJ5) 
 hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl 
 55 
 
 
 ID NO: 20) 
   
   
   
 transferase 
 
 
 iri 34 (SEQ 
 1000 
 44 
   L. lactis  IlvA (U92974) 
 probable threonine dehydratase 
 56 
 
 
 ID NO: 21) 
   
   
   P. aeruginosa  Pn16 
 
 
 
 
 Transporter functions 
 
 
 
 
 iri 2 (SEQ ID 
 750 
 36 
   B. subtilis  YloD (O34328) 
 putative guanylate kinase 
 50 
 
 
 NO: 15) 
   
   
   S. gordonii  ComYA (U81957) 
 putative ABC transporter 
 37 
 
 
   
   
   
   Vibrio cholerae  IviVI (Q56605) 
 putative ABC transporter 
 47 
 
 
 iri 10, 20 
 1350 
 51 
   E. coli  YoaE (P76262) 
 putative transport protein 
 94 
 
 
 (SEQ ID 
 
 
 NO: 9) 
 
 
 
 
 Unknown 
 
 
 
 
 iri 13, 15, 27 
 800 
 34 
   M. tuberculosis  MTCY336_33 
 unknown 
 38 
 
 
 (SEQ ID 
   
   
 hypothetical protein (O06593) 
 
 
 NO: 11) 
 
 
 iri 29 (SEQ 
 850 
 36 
   S. aureus  Yp15 (P13977) hypothetical 
 unknown 
 39 
 
 
 ID NO: 18) 
   
   
 protein 
 
 
 iri 18 (SEQ 
 800 
 39 
   S. crista  hypothetical protein 
 unknown 
 82 
 
 
 ID NO: 14) 
   
   
 (AAF61316) 
 
 
 iri 3 (SEQ ID 
 700 
 36 
 no homology found 
 
 
 NO: 19) 
 
 
 iri 4 (SEQ ID 
 700 
 36 
 no homology found 
 
 
 NO: 22) 
 
 
 iri 8, 26 
 900 
 35 
 no homology found 
 
 
 (SEQ ID 
 
 
 NO: 24) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 3 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Virulence of  S. suis  10 (pIVET-E), 10 (pIVET-PE) and 10 (pIVET-RE) in gnotobiotic piglets. 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 Clinical index of 
   
   
 No. of pigs from which 
 
 
 Strains/ 
 No. of 
 Dose (route 
 Mortality* 
 Morbidity ¥ 
 the group ¦ 
 Fever 
 Leukocyte 
   S. suis  was isolated 
 
 
 
 
 library 
 piglets 
 of infection) 
 (%) 
 (%) 
 Specific || 
 Non-specific    
 index à 
 index £ 
 CNS 
 Serosae 
 Joints 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-E) 
 4 
 10 6  (i.n.) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 6 
 9 
 75 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-E) 
 4 
 10 6  (i.v.) 
 0 
 0 
 6 
 12 
 31 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-PE) 
 4 
 10 6  (i.n.) 
 100 
 100 
 30 
 40 
 35 
 100 
 3 
 0 
 2 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-PE) 
 4 
 10 6  (i.v.) 
 75 
 100 
 50 
 42 
 43 
 50 
 3 
 3 
 4 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-RE) 
 4 
 5 × 10 5  (i.v.) 
 100 
 100 
 56 
 75 
 44 
 83 
 2 
 2 
 4 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-RE) 
 4 
 5 × 10 6  (i.v.) 
 100 
 100 
 43 
 73 
 43 
 60 
 3 
 0 
 4 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-RE) 
 4 
 5 × 10 7  (i.v.) 
 100 
 100 
 60 
 74 
 48 
 75 
 4 
 1 
 4 
 
 
 10 (pIVS-RE) 
 4 
 5 × 10 8  (i.v.) 
 100 
 100 
 49 
 70 
 37 
 50 
 3 
 3 
 4 
 
 
   
 
 
 *Percentage of pigs that died due to infection or had to be killed for animal welfare reasons 
 
 
 ¥ Percentage of pigs with specific symptoms 
 
 
 ¦ Percentage of observations which matched the described criteria 
 
 
 || Ataxia, lameness of at least one joint and/or stiffness 
 
 
     Inappetance and/or depression 
 
 
 à Percentage of observations for the experimental group of a body temperature of >40° C. 
 
 
 £ Percentage of blood samples for the group in which the concentration of granulocytes was >10 10 /liter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 4 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   S. suis  genes selected in pigs. 
 
 
 
 
   
 Sites of 
 Insert 
   
 Data base homology 
   
   
 
 
 Clone 
 isolation 
 (bp) 
 GC % 
 (accession no.) 
 Function of homolog 
 % Identity 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 Putative virulence factors 
 
 
 
 
 ivs 31 (SEQ ID 
 CNS 
 200 
 47 
   S. gordonii  FlpA (X65164) 
 fibronectin/fibrinogen binding 
 70 
 
 
 NO: 37) 
 
 
 
 
 Regulatory functions 
 
 
 
 
 ivs 25 (SEQ ID 
 joint 
 800 
 34 
   S. mutans  SapR (P72485) 
 response regulator protein 
 49 
 
 
 NO: 34) 
   
   
   
   S. aureus  AgrA (X52543) 
 response regulator protein 
 51 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   S. suis  Iri 1, 6, 22 
   
 100 
 
 
 ivs 23, 24 (SEQ 
 other 
 850 
 38 
   S. agalactiae  CpsY (CAB36982) 
 regulation capsule expression 
 46 
 
 
 ID NO: 33) 
   
   
   
   E. coli  OxyR (P11721) 
 oxidative stress regulator 
 51 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   S. suis  Iri 24 
   
 100 
 
 
 ivs 16 (SEQ ID 
 CNS 
 800 
 43 
   S. epidermidis  AltR (U71377) 
 putative transcriptional regulator 
 26 
 
 
 NO: 28) 
 
 
 ivs 20 (SEQ ID 
 lung 
 800 
 41 
   L. lactis  AldR (O34133) 
 putative regulator AldR 
 64 
 
 
 NO: 32) 
 
 
 
 
 Metabolic functions 
 
 
 
 
 ivs 33 (SEQ ID 
 CNS 
 570 
 36 
   E. coli  ThrC (P00934) 
 threonine synthase 
 41 
 
 
 NO: 39) 
 
 
 ivs 5, 10, 12, 22 
 CNS, joint 
 900 
 36 
   S. gordonii  Tdk (P47848) 
 thymidine kinase 
 87 
 
 
 (SEQ ID NO: 
 
 
 42) 
 
 
 ivs 18 (SEQ ID 
 lung 
 730 
 32 
   S. mutans  NADH oxidase (JC4541) 
 NADH oxidase 
 80 
 
 
 NO: 29) 
 
 
 
 
 Transporter functions 
 
 
 
 
 ivs 2, 4, 28 (SEQ 
 CNS, joint 
 1350 
 51 
   E. coli  YoaE (P76262) 
 putative transport protein 
 94 
 
 
 ID NO: 31) 
   
   
   
   S. suis  Iri 10, 20 
   
 100 
 
 
 ivs 3 (SEQ ID 
 joint 
 1000 
 42 
   S. mutans  OrfU (AF267498) 
 putative ABC transporter 
 33 
 
 
 NO: 36) 
   
   
   
   
 (permease) 
 
 
 ivs 6, 7, 13, 14 
 CNS, joint 
 1350 
 36 
   B. subtilis  Ylo D (O34328) 
 putative guanylate kinase 
 50 
 
 
 (SEQ ID NO: 
   
   
   
   S. gordonii  ComYa (U81957) 
 putative ABC transporter 
 37 
 
 
 43) 
   
   
   
   V. cholera  IviVI (Q56605) 
 putative ABC transporter 
 47 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   S. suis  Iri 2 
   
 100 
 
 
 
 
 Transposases 
 
 
 
 
 ivs 8 (SEQ ID 
 CNS 
 600 
 41 
   S. pneumoniae  transposase 
 transposase 
 70 
 
 
 NO: 44) 
   
   
   
 (Z86112) 
 
 
 ivs 1 (SEQ ID 
 joint 
 1600 
 39 
   C. perfringens  (X71844) 
 putative transposase 
 56 
 
 
 NO: 25) 
 
 
 
 
 Miscellaneous 
 
 
 
 
 ivs 32, 35 (SEQ 
 CNS 
 500 
 38 
   S. typhimurium  FliF (P15928) 
 flagellar M-protein precursor 
 36 
 
 
 ID NO: 38) 
 
 
 ivs 9, 17 (SEQ 
 joint, CNS 
 800 
 36 
   B. subtilis  ComE ORF2 (P32393) 
 competence development 
 37 
 
 
 ID NO: 45) 
 
 
 ivs 11 (SEQ ID 
 serosea 
 800 
 44 
   P. syringae  TabA (P31851) 
 diaminopimelate decarboxylase/ 
 53 
 
 
 NO: 26) 
   
   
   
   
 tabtoxin 
 
 
 
 
 Unknown 
 
 
 
 
 ivs 15 (SEQ ID 
 CNS 
 750 
 42 
   B. subtilis  conserved hypothetical 
 unknown 
 43 
 
 
 NO: 27) 
   
   
   
 protein YdiB (D88802) 
 
 
 ivs 29 (SEQ ID 
 joint 
 800 
 38 
   S. salivarius  hypothetical protein 
 unknown 
 79 
 
 
 NO: 35) 
   
   
   
 (AF130465) 
 
 
 ivs 34 (SEQ ID 
 CNS 
 600 
 43 
   B. subtilis  conserved hypothetical 
 unknown 
 61 
 
 
 NO: 40) 
   
   
   
 protein YrrK (O34634) 
 
 
 ivs 36 (SEQ ID 
 joint 
 830 
 42 
   B. subtilis  hypothetical protein 
 unknown 
 35 
 
 
 NO: 41) 
   
   
   
 YqeG (P54452) 
 
 
 ivs 19 (SEQ ID 
 lung 
 950 
 34 
   S. cristatus  hypothetical protein 
 unknown 
 86 
 
 
 NO: 30) 
   
   
   
 (U96166) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 5 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Bacterial strains and plasmids. 
 
 
 
 
 Strain/plasmid 
 Relevant Characteristics a   
 Source/reference 
 
 
   
 
 
 Strains 
   
   
 
 
 
 E. coli 
 
 
 
 XL2-Blue 
 recA1 endA1 gyrA96 thi-1 hsdR17 supE44 relA1 
 Stratagene 
 
 
   
 lac (F 1  proAB lacI q Z)M15 TN10 (Tet R ) amy Cm R ) 
 
 
 M15 
 Nal S  Str S  Rif S  Thi −  Lac −  Ara +  Gal +  Mtl −  F −  RecA +  Uvr +  Lon +   
 Qiagen 
 
 
 
 S. suis 
 
 
 
 10 
 Virulent serotype 2 strain 
 Vecht et al. (29) 
 
 
 10ΔFBPS 
 Isogenic fbps mutant of strain 10 
 This work 
 
 
 Plasmids 
 
 
 pGEM7Zf(+) 
 Replication functions pUC, Amp R   
 Promega Corp. 
 
 
 pKUN19 
 Replication functions pUC, Amp R   
 Konings et al. (14) 
 
 
 pIC19R 
 Replication functions pUC, Amp R   
 Marsh et al. (16) 
 
 
 pDL282 
 Replication functions of pBR322 and pVT736-1, Amp R , Spc R   
 Sreenivasan et al. (25) 
 
 
 pIC-spc 
 pIC19R containing Spc R  gene of pDL282 
 Lab collection 
 
 
 pQE-30 
 Replication functions pBR322, Amp R , expression vector, 6x HIS tag 
 Qiagen 
 
 
 pQE-30-FBPS 
 pQE-30 containing the 1.8 kb fbps gene 
 This work 
 
 
 pREP4 
 Replication functions pACYC, Kan R , lacI gene 
 Qiagen 
 
 
 pE194 
 Em R   
 Horinouchi and Weisblum (11) 
 
 
 pIVS-E 
 Replication functions of pWVO1, Spc R , promoterless erm gene of pE194 
 Smith et al. (20) 
 
 
 pIVS-31 
 pIVS-E containing 200 bp showing homology to  Streptococcus gordonii   
 Smith et al. (20) 
 
 
   
 flpa 
 
 
 pFBPS7-46 
 pGEM7Zf(+) containing EcoRI-EcoRI fragment of fbps 
 This work 
 
 
 pFBPS7-47 
 pFBPS7-46 in which 382 bp SalI-SalI fragment is replaced by 1.2 kb Spc R   
 This work 
 
 
   
 from pIC-spc 
 
 
   
 
 
   a Tet R  tetracycline resistant Cm R  chloramphenicol resistant Amp R  ampicillin resistant Spc R  spectinomycin resistant Kan R  kanamycin resistant FBPS fibronectin binding protein  S. suis   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 6 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Numbers of re-isolated wild-type (strain 10) and mutant (strain 10ΔFBPS) 
 
 
 bacteria from organs of infected piglets (mean 
 
 
 actual inoculation ratio 65% mutant strain). 
 
 
 
 
   
 Pig number 
 
 
 
 
   
 4664 
 4665 
 4666 
 4667 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 perc. c   
   
   
 perc. c   
   
   
 perc. c   
   
   
 perc. c   
 
 
 Organ 
 w.t. a   
 mut. b   
 mut. 
 w.t. a   
 mut. b   
 mut. 
 w.t. a   
 mut. b   
 mut. 
 w.t. a   
 mut. b   
 mut. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 Tonsil 
 1.77 e 5 
 3.29 e 5 
 65 
 4.35 e 5 
 2.42 e 6 
 85 
 5.34 e 4 
 8.73 e 4 
 61 
 7.94 e 5 
 3.96 e 5 
 33 
 
 
   pus joint  1 
 6.75 e 4 
 <10 
 0 
   
   
   
 1.02 e 2 
  5.2 e 2 
 84 
 
 
   pus joint  2 
 5.15 e 4 
 <10 
 0 
 
 
 CNS 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 1.88 e 5 
 <10 
 0 
 
 
   
 
 
 CNS Central Nervous System 
 
 
   a number of wild-type bacteria found (cfu/ml) 
 
 
   b number of mutant bacteria found (cfu/ml) 
 
 
   c percentage of mutant bacteria calculated as follows: b/(a + b) * 100% 
 
 
 Only relevant organs are depicted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 REFERENCES 
 
   
 Arends, J. P. and H. C. Zanen. (1988). Meningitis caused by  Streptococcus suis  in humans.  Rev. Infect. Dis.  10, 131-137. 
 Axeisson, L. and A. Holck. (1995). The genes involved in production of and immunity to sakacin A, a bacteriocin from  Lactobacillus sake  Lb706.  J. Bacteriol.  177, 2125-2137. 
 Camacho, L. R., D. Ensergueix, E. Perez, B. Gicquel and C. Guilhot. (1999). Identification of a gene cluster of  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  by signature-tagged transposon mutagenesis.  Mol. Microbiol.  34, 257-267. 
 Camilli, A. and J. J. Mekalanos. (1995). Use of recombinase gene fusions to identify  Vibrio cholerae  genes induced during infection.  Mol. Microbiol.  18, 671-683. 
 Chiang, S. L. and J. J. Mekalanos. (1998). Use of signature-tagged transposon mutagenesis to identify  Vibrio cholerae  genes critical for colonization.  Mol. Microbiol.  27, 797-805. 
 Clifton-Hadley, F. A. (1983).  Streptococcus suis    type  2 infections.  Br. Vet. J.  139, 1-5. 
 Conner, C. P., D. M. Heithoff, S. M. Julio, R. L. Sinsheimer and M. J. Mahan. (1998). Differential patterns of acquired virulence genes distinguish  Salmonella  strains.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  95, 4641-4645. 
 Coulter, S, N., W. R. Schwan, E. Y. W. Ng, M. H. Langhorne, H. D. Ritchie, S. 
 Westbrock-Wadman, W. O. Hufnagle, K. R. Folger, A. S. Bayer and C. K. Stover. (1998).  Staphylococcus aureus  genetic loci impacting growth and survival in multiple infection environments.  Mol. Microbiol.  30, 393-404. 
 Courtney, H. S., J. B. Dale, Y. Li and D. L. Hasty. (1994). Cloning, sequencing, and expression of a fibronectin/fibrinogen-binding protein from group A Streptococci.  Infect. Immun.  62, 3937-3946. 
 Darwin, A. J. and V. L. Miller. (1999). Identification of  Yersinia enterocolitica  genes affecting survival in an animal host using signature-tagged transposon mutagenesis.  Mol. Microbiol.  32, 51-62. 
 Demple, B. (1999). Radical ideas: genetic responses to oxidative stress.  Clin. Exp. Pharm. Phys.  26, 64-68. 
 Edelstein, P. H., M. A. C. Edelstein, F. Higa and S. Falkow. (1999). Discovery of virulence genes of  Legionella pneumophila  by using signature tagged mutagenesis in a guinea pig pneumonia model.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  96, 8190-8195. 
 Elliott, S. D. and J. Y. Tai. (1978). The type specific polysaccharide of  Streptococcus suis. J. Exp. Med.  148, 1699-1704. 
 Fuller, T. E., R. J. Shea, B. J. Thacker and M. H. Mulks. (1999). Identification of in vivo induced genes in  Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae. Microb. Path.  27, 311-327. 
 Gottschalk, M., S. Lacouture and J. D. Dubreuil. (1995). Characterization of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 hemolysin.  Microbiology  141, 189-195. 
 Hensel, M., J. E. Shea, C. Gleeson, M. D. Jones, E. Dalton and D. W. Holden. (1995). Simultaneous identification of bacterial virulence genes by negative selection.  Science  269, 400-403. 
 Horinouchi, S, and B. Weisblum. (1982). Nucleotide sequence and functional map of pE194, a plasmid that specifies inducible resistance to macrolide, lincosamide and streptogramin type B antibiotics.  J. Bacteriol.  150, 804-814. 
 Jacobs, A. A., P. L. W. Loeffen, A. J. G. van den Berg and P. K. Storm. (1994). Identification, purification and characterization of a thiol-activated hemolysin (suilysin) of  Streptococcus suis. Infect. Immun.  62, 1742-1748. 
 Kolkman, M. A. B., W. Wakarchuk, P. J. M. Nuijten and B. A. M. van der Zeijst. (1997). Capsular polysaccharide synthesis in  Streptococcus pneumoniae  serotype 14: molecular analysis of the complete cps locus and identification of genes encoding glycosyltransferases required for the biosynthesis of the tetrasaccharide subunit.  Mol. Microbiol.  26, 197-208. 
 Konings, R. N. H., E. J. M. Verhoeven and B. P. H. Peeters. (1987). pKUN vectors for the separate production of both DNA strands of recombinant plasmids.  Methods Enzymol.  153, 12-34. 
 Koskiniemi, S., M. Sellin and M. Norgren. (1998). Identification of two genes, cpsX and cpsY, with putative regulatory function on capsule expression in group B Streptococci.  FEMS Immun. Med. Microbiol.  21, 159-168. 
 Litwin, C. M. and S. B. Calderwood. (1993). Role of iron regulation of virulence genes.  Clin. Microbiol. Rev.  6, 137-149. 
 Lowe, A. M., D. T. Beattie and R. L. Deresiewics. (1998). Identification of novel  staphylococcal  virulence genes by in vivo expression technology.  Mol. Microbiol.  27, 967-976. 
 Mahan, M. J., J. M. Slauch and J. J. Mekalanos. (1993). Selection of bacterial virulence genes that are specifically induced in host tissues.  Science  259, 686-688. 
 Mahan, M. J., T. W. Tobias, J. M. Slauch, P. C. Hanna, R. J. Collier and J. J. Mekalanos. (1995). Antibiotic-based selection for bacterial genes that are specifically induced during infection of a host.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  92, 669-673. 
 Martinez, J. L., A. Delgado-Iribarren and F. Basquero. (1990). Mechanisms of iron acquisition and bacterial virulence.  FEMS Microbiol.  75, 45-56. 
 Mei, J-M., F. Nourbakhsh, C. W. Ford and D. W. Holden. (1997). Identification of  Staphylococcus aureus  virulence genes in a murine model of bacteremia using signature-tagged mutagenesis.  Mol. Microbiol.  26, 399-407. 
 Miller, J. (1972).  Experiments in Molecular Genetics . Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. 
 Niven, D. F., A. Ekins and A. A.-W Al-Samaurai. (1999). Effects of iron and manganese availability on growth and production of superoxide dismutase by  Streptococcus suis. Can. J. Microbiol.  45, 1027-1032. 
 Payne, S. M. (1993). Iron acquisition in microbial pathogenesis.  Trends Microbiol.  1, 66-69. 
 Polissi, A., A. Pontiggia, G. Feger, M. Altieri, H. Mottl, L. Ferrari and D. Simon. (1998). Large-scale identification of virulence genes from  Streptococcus pneumoniae. Infect. Immun.  66, 5620-5629. 
 Projan, S. J. and R. P. Novick. (1997). The molecular basis of pathogenicity.  The Staphylococci in Human Disease , pp 55-81. Edited by K. B. Crossley and G. L. Archer. 
 Churchill Livingstone, N.Y. 
 Quessy, S., J. D. Dubreuil, M. Jacques, F. Malouin and R. Higgins. (1994). Increase in capsular material thickness following in vivo growth of virulent  Streptococcus suis    serotype  2 strains.  FEMS Microbiol. Lett.  115, 19-26. 
 Sambrook, J., E. F. Fritsch and T. Maniatis. (1989).  Molecular Cloning: a Laboratory Manual,  2nd edn. Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. 
 Segers, R. P. A. M., T. Kenter, L. A. M. de Haan and A. A. C. Jacobs. (1998). Characterization of the gene encoding suilysin from  Streptococcus suis  and expression in field strains.  FEMS Microbiol. Lett.  167, 255-261. 
 Serhir, B., D. Dugourd, M. Jacques, R. Higgins and J. Harel. (1997). Cloning and characterization of a dextranase gene (dexS) from  Streptococcus suis.  Gene   19, 257-261. 
 Smith, H. E., U. Vecht, A. L. J. Gielkens and M. A. Smits. (1992). Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the gene encoding the 136-kilodalton surface protein (muramidase-released protein) of  Streptococcus suis    type  2.  Infect. Immun.  60, 2361-2367. 
 Smith, H. E., F. H. Reek, U. Vecht, A. L. J. Gielkens and M. A. Smits. (1993). Repeats in an extracellular protein of weakly pathogenic strains of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 are absent in pathogenic strains.  Infect. Immun.  61, 3318-3326. 
 Smith, H. E., H. J. Wisselink, U. Vecht, A. L. J. Gielkens and M. A. Smits. (1995). High-efficiency transformation and gene inactivation in  Streptococcus suis    type  2 . Microbiol.  141, 181-188. 
 
 Smith, H. E., U. Vecht, H. J. Wisselink, N. Stockhofe-Zurwieden, Y. Biermann and M. A. Smits. (1996). Mutants of  Streptococcus suis      types    1 and 2 impaired in expression of muramidase-released protein and extracellular protein induce disease in newborn germ-free pigs.  Infect. Immun.  64, 4409-4412.
     Smith, H. E., M. Damman, J. van der Velde, F. Wagenaar, H. J. Wisselink, N. Stockhofe-Zurwieden and M. A. Smits. (1999). Identification and characterization of the cps locus of  Streptococcus suis  serotype 2: the capsule protects against phagocytosis and is an important virulence factor.  Infect. Immun.  67, 1750-1756.   Stockhofe-Zurwieden, N., U. Vecht, H. J. Wisselink, H. van Lieshout and H. E. Smith. (1996). Comparative studies on the pathogenicity of different  Streptococcus suis  serotype I strains. In  Proceedings of the  14 th International Pig Veterinary Society Congress , pp 299. Edited by P. G. Monetti and G. Vignola. Bologna, Italy.   Van der Vossen, J. M. B. M., D. van der Lelie and G. Venema. (1987). Isolation and characterization of  Lactococcus lactis  subsp.  cremoris  Wg2-specific promoters.  Appl. Environ. Microbiol.  52, 2452-2457.   Vecht, U., L. A. M. G. van Leengoed and E. R. M. Verheyden. (1985).  Streptococcus suis  infections in pigs in The Netherlands (part one).  Vet. Quart.  7: 315-321.   Vecht, U., J. P. Arends, E. J. van der Molen and L. A. M. G. van Leengoed. (1989). Difference in virulence between two strains of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 after experimentally induced infection of newborn germ-free pigs.  Am. J. Vet. Res.  50, 1037-1043.   Vecht, U., H. J. Wisselink, M. L. Jellema and H. E. Smith. (1991). Identification of two proteins associated with virulence of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 . Infect. Immun.  59, 3156-3162.   Vecht, U., H. J. Wisselink, J. E. van Dijk and H. E. Smith. (1992). Virulence of  Streptococcus  suis  type  2 strains in newborn germ-free pigs depends on phenotype.  Infect. Immun.  60, 550-556.   Vecht, U., N. Stockhofe-Zurwieden, B. J. Tetenburg, H. J. Wisselink and H. E. Smith. (1997). Virulence of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 for mice and pigs appeared host-specific.  Vet. Microbiol.  58, 53-60.   Wang, J., A. Mushegian, S. Lory and S. Jin. (1996). Large-scale isolation of candidate virulence genes of  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  by in vivo selection.  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  93, 10434-10439.   Yamashita, Y., Y. Shibata, Y. Nakano, H. Tsuda, N. Kido, M. Ohta and T. Koga. (1999). A novel gene required for rhamnose-glucose polysaccharide synthesis in  Streptococcus mutans. J. Bacteriol.  181, 6556-6559.   Young, G. M. and V. L. Miller. (1997). Identification of novel chromosomal loci affecting  Yersinia enterocolitica  pathogenesis.  Mol. Microbiol.  25, 319-328.   Zhao, H., X. Li, D. E. Johnson and H. L. T. Mobley. (1999). Identification of protease and rpoN-associated genes of uropathogenic  Proteus mirabilis  by negative selection in a mouse model of ascending urinary tract infection.  Microbiol.  145, 185-195.   
 OTHER REFERENCES 
 
   
 1. Allgaier A. R. G., H. J. Wisselink, H. E. Smith, and P. Valentin-Weigand. 2001. Relatedness of  Streptococcus suis  isolates of various serotypes and clinical backgrounds as evaluated by macrorestriction analysis and expression of potential virulence traits.  J. Clin. Microbiol.  39:445-453. 
 2. Allen, A. G., S. Bolitho, H. Lindsay, S. Khan, C. Bryant, P. Norton, P. Ward, J. Leigh, J. Morgan, H. Riches, S. Eastty, D. Maskell. 2001. Generation and characterization of a defined mutant of  Streptococcus suis  lacking suilysin.  Infect. Immun.  69:2732-2735. 
 3. Arends, J. P., and H. C. Zanen. 1988. Meningitis caused by  Streptococcus suis  in humans. Rev. Infect. Dis. 10:131-137. 
 4. Charland, N., V. Nizet, C. Rubens, K. Kim, S. Lacouture, and M. Gottschalk. 2000.  Streptococcus suis  interactions with human brain microvascular endothelial cells.  Infect. Immun.  68:637-643. 
 5. Chia, J. S., C. Y. Yeh, and J. Y. Chen. 2000. Identification of a fibronectin binding protein from  Streptococcus mutans. Infect. Immun.  68:1864-1870. 
 6. Clifton-Hadley, F. A. 1983.  Streptococcus suis    type  2 infections.  Br. Vet. J.  139:1-5. 
 7. Courtney, H. S., J. B. Dale, and D. L. Hasty. 1996. Differential effects of the Streptococcal fibronectin-binding protein, FBP54, on adhesion of group A Streptococci to human buccal cells and Hep-2 tissue culture cells.  Infect. Immun.  64:2415-2419. 
 8. Courtney, H. S., Y. Li, J. B. Dale, and D. L. Hasty. 1994. Cloning, sequencing, and expression of a fibronectin/fibrinogen-binding protein from group A Streptococci.  Infect. Immun.  62:3937-3946. 
 9. Fuller, T. E., S. Martin, J. F. Teel, G. R. Alaniz, M. J. Kennedy, and D. E. Lowery. 2000. Identification of  Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae  virulence genes using signature-tagged mutagenesis in a swine infection model.  Microb. Pathog.  29:39-51. 
 10. Greene, C., D. McDevitt, P. Francois, P. Vaudaux, and T. J. Foster. 1995. Adhesion properties of mutants of  Staphylococcus aureus  defective in fibronectin-binding proteins and studies on the expression of fnb genes.  Mol. Microbiol.  17:1065-1076. 
 11. Horinouchi, S., and B. Weisblum. 1982. Nucleotide sequence and functional map of pE194, a plasmid that specifies inducible resistance to macrolide, lincosamide and streptogramin type B antibiotics.  J. Bacteriol.  150:804-815. 
 12. Joh, D., E. R. W. Wann, B. Kreikemeyer, P. Speziale, and M. Hook. 1999. Role of fibronectin-binding MSCRAMMS in bacterial adherence and entry into mammalian cells.  Matrix Biol.  18:211-223. 
 13. Kawabata, S., E. Kunitomo, Y. Terao, I. Nagakawa, K. Kiruchi, K.-I. Totsuka, and S. Hamada. 2001. Systemic and mucosal immunizations with fibronectin-binding protein FBP54 induce protective immune responses against  Streptococcus pyogenes  challenge in mice.  Infect. Immun.  69:924-930. 
 14. Konings, R. N. H., E. J. M. Verhoeven, and B. P. H. Peeters. 1987. pKUN vectors for the separate production of both DNA strands of recombinant plasmids.  Methods Enzymol.  153:12-34. 
 15. Mahan, M. J., J. M. Slauch, and J. J. Mekalanos. 1993. Selection of bacterial virulence genes that are specifically induced in host tissues.  Science  259:686-688. 
 16. Marsh, J. L., M. Erfle, and E. J. Wykes. 1984. The pIC plasmid and phage vectors with versatile cloning sites for recombinant selection by insertional inactivation.  Gene  32:481-485. 
 17. Miller, J. 1972. Experiments in molecular genetics. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. 
 18. Peacock, S. J., T. J. Foster, B. J. Cameron, and A. R. Berendt. 1999. Bacterial fibronectin-binding proteins and endothelial cell surface fibronectin mediate adherence of  Staphylococcus aureus  to resting human endothelial cells.  Microbiology  145:3477-3486. 
 19. Sambrook, J., E. F. Fritsch, and T. Maniatis. 1989. Molecular cloning: a laboratory manual, 2nd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor. N.Y. 
 20. Smith, H. E., H. Buijs, R. de Vries, H. J. Wisselink, N. Stockhofe-Zurwieden, and M. A. Smits. 2001. Environmentally regulated genes of  Streptococcus suis : identification by the use of iron-restricted conditions in vitro and by experimental infection of piglets.  Microbiol.  147:271-280. 
 21. Smith, H. E., H. Buijs, H. J. Wisselink, N. Stockhofe-Zurwieden, and M. A. Smits. 2001. Selection of virulence-associated determinants of  Streptococcus suis    serotype  2 by in vivo complementation.  Infect. Immun.  69:1961-1966. 
 22. Smith, H. E., M. Damman, J. van der Velde, F. Wagenaar, H. J. Wisselink, N. Stockhofe-Zurwieden, and M. A. Smits. 1999. Identification and characterization of the cps locus of  Streptococcus suis  serotype 2: the capsule protects against phagocytosis and is an important virulence factor.  Infect. Immun.  60:1750-1756. 
 23. Smith, H. E., U. Vecht, H. J. Wisselink, N. Stockhofe-Zurwieden, Y. Biermann, and M. A. Smits. 1996. Mutants of  Streptococcus suis      types    1 and 2 impaired in expression of murimidase-released protein and extracellular protein induce disease in newborn germ-free pigs.  Infect. Immun.  64:4409-4412. 
 24. Smith, H. E., H. J. Wisselink, U. Vecht, A. L. J. Gielkens, and M. A. Smits. 1995. High-efficiency transformation and gene inactivation in  Streptococcus suis    type  2.  Microbiology  141:181-188. 
 25. Sreenivasan, P. K., D. L. LeBlanc, L. N. Lee, and P. Fives-Taylor. 1991. Transformation of  Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans  by electroporation, utilizing constructed shuttle plasmids.  Infect. Immun.  59:4621-4627. 
 26. Staats, J. J., I. Feder, O. Okwumabua, and M. M. Cheganppa. 1995.  Streptococcus suis : past and present.  Vet. Res. Comm.  21:381-407. 
 27. Vecht, U., J. P. Arends, E. J. van der Molen, and L. A. M. G. van Leengoed. 1989. Differences in virulence between two strains of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 after experimentally induced infection of newborn germ-free pigs.  Am. J. Vet. Res.  50:1037-1043. 
 28. Vecht, U., L. A. M. G. van Leengoed, and E. R. M. Verheyen. 1985.  Streptococcus suis  infections in pigs in The Netherlands (part I).  Vet. Q.  7:315-321. 
 29. Vecht, U., H. J. Wisselink, J. E. van Dijk, and H. E. Smith. 1992. Virulence of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 strains in newborn germ-free pigs depend on phenotype.  Infect. Immun.  60:550-556. 
 30. Vecht, U., H. J. Wisselink, M. L. Jellema, and H. E. Smith. 1991. Identification of two proteins associated with virulence of  Streptococcus suis    type  2 . Infect. Immun.  59:3156-3162. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
