
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TECHNICAL FIELD 
 The present invention relates to a novel promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum , a recombinant vector comprising the promoter, a host cell transformed with the recombinant vector and a method of expressing a target gene using the host cell. 
 BACKGROUND ART 
 Coryneform bacteria have been widely used to produce chemical substances which have various applications in industries of animal feed, pharmaceuticals, food, and the like including L-lysine, L-threonine and various nucleic acids. In order to develop high yield strains from such coryneform bacteria using genetic engineering and metabolic engineering techniques, expression of genes involved in various metabolic pathways in coryneform bacteria need to be selectively regulated, and thus promoters useful for these gene regulations are required. 
 Conventional methods of isolating promoters include: (1) a method of using promoter probe vector randomly cloning genomic DNA fragments upstream of a reporter gene expressed only when a cloned fragment contains promoter activity; (2) a method of isolating genes and their promoters from a gene library using gene-specific probe-based hybridization; and (3) a differential hybridization of a gene bank using an inducible cDNA probe and a non-inducible cDNA probe. 
 In the expression of genes in coryneform bacteria, genes are generally expressed under their control of original promoters (Vasicova, P., et al., J. Bacteriol., 181, 6188-6191, (1999), etc.). However, typical structures of promoter sequences for gene expressions in coryneform bacteria have been unknown unlike other industrial microorganisms such as  Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis , and the like. Thus, promoters for use in coryneform bacteria have been developed by eliminating a promoter region from a gene associated with resistance to antibiotics such as chloramphenicol, introducing into the promoter site a chromosomal DNA fragment isolated from coryneform bacteria with suitable restriction digestion, transforming coryneform bacteria with the resulting DNA molecules, and assessing antibiotic resistance of obtained strains (Eikmanns, B. J., et al., Gene, 102, 93-98, (1991); Patek, M., et al., Microbiology, 142, 1297-1309, (1996)). However, conventionally developed promoter sequences still need to be improved with respect to selectivity of gene expression, expression efficiency of genes, etc. 
 We developed a novel promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  by searching and amplifying putative promoter regions by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), introducing the putative promoter into the initiation site of lysC gene lacking a promoter, and identifying variations in lysC activity via lysine production to select efficient promoters. 
 DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION 
 The present invention provides a novel promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 The present invention also provides a recombinant vector comprising a novel promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 The present invention also provides a host cell transformed with a recombinant vector comprising a novel promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 The present invention also provides a method of expressing a target gene using a host cell transformed with a recombinant vector comprising a novel promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
 The above and other objects, features and other advantages of the present invention will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which: 
   FIG. 1  schematically shows a process of preparing vectors for exploring promoter activity according to an embodiment of the present invention. 
 
 BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION 
 According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a promoter nucleic acid molecule having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2. 
 The nucleotide sequence of the promoter nucleic acid molecule according to the present invention may be modified to a certain degree by one of several recently developed techniques such as directed evolution or site-directed mutagenesis. Those skilled in the art would readily understand that a nucleotide sequence having 70% or higher homology to the sequence of the promoter of the present invention is an equivalent to the promoter of the present invention, as long as it retains promoter activity for expressing a target gene. 
 Thus, the promoter nucleic acid molecule according to the present invention may include nucleotide sequences which have 70% or higher homology to a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 and can be used as a promoter. 
 The term “homology” used herein indicates a degree of sequence identity to the wild type nucleic acid sequence. The promoter of the present invention may include promoters having a DNA sequence 75% or higher, preferably 85% or higher, more preferably 90% or higher and most preferably 95% or higher identical to the nucleotide sequence of the novel promoter of the present invention. The homology may be compared by the naked eyes or using a commercially available software. According to the commercially available software program, the homology between two or more sequences can be calculated as a percentage (%), and the homology (%) between adjacent sequences may be calculated. 
 In addition, the promoter nucleic acid molecule of the present invention may include promoter nucleic acid molecules derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum , selected from the group consisting of promoters comprising nucleotide sequences complementary to the nucleotide sequences described above. 
 The term “complementary” used herein indicates that hybridization or base paring is possible between nucleotides or nucleic acids, for example, between the two strands of a double-stranded DNA molecule or between an oligonucleotide primer and a primer binding site of a single-stranded nucleic acid template to be sequenced or amplified. 
 In addition, the promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  of the present invention includes a functional equivalent to the promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum . The functional equivalent to the promoter of the present invention which includes functional fragment thereof may include variants having at least one base substitutions, deletions, insertions or combinations thereof. 
 The  Corynebacterium glutamicum  promoter nucleic acid molecule of the present invention is a promoter derived from coryneform bacterium, and preferably efficiently used as a promoter for expressions of genes of interest in prokaryotic cells, particularly,  Escherichia coli  and coryneform bacteria. 
 The term “promoter” used herein indicates a DNA region to which a RNA polymerase binds to initiate gene transcription, located upstream of mRNA transcription initiation site, to the 5′ direction. 
 The promoter of the present invention having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 of the present invention may be promoters for gene NCgl1504 (SEQ ID NO: 11) and gene NCgl1305 (SEQ ID NO: 12) selected by analyzing the amount of gene expressions of about 3000 genes of the  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032. 
 Herein, the ‘gene having a nucleotide sequence NCgl1504’ and ‘gene having a nucleotide sequence NCgl1305’ refer to not only genes having nucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 11 and 12, respectively, derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032 strains, but also genes expressing products substantially identical to those expressed by the NCgl1504 or NCgl1305 in microorganisms belonging to genus  Corynebacterium . The terms, ‘NCgl1504 gene’ and ‘NCgl1305 gene’, respectively refer to ‘gene having a nucleotide sequence NCgl1504’ and ‘gene having a nucleotide sequence NCgl1305’. The term ‘substantially identical’ used herein indicates activities and regulation mechanisms. The gene having nucleotide sequence NCgl1504 may be a gene having nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11 and the gene having nucleotide sequence NCgl1305 may be a gene having nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12. 
 The promoter nucleic acid molecule according to the present invention may be isolated or prepared using a standard molecular biology technique, for example by PCR using appropriate primer sequences. It may also be prepared by a standard synthesis technique using an automated DNA synthesizer. 
 The present invention also provides a recombinant vector comprising a promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 and a coding sequence of a target gene which is operationally linked to the promoter. 
 The term “vector” used herein indicates a DNA construct comprising a DNA sequence which is operationally linked to a suitable control sequence for expression in a suitable host cells. The suitable control sequence includes a promoter to direct transcription, an arbitrary operator sequence to regulate such transcription, a sequence encoding a suitable mRNA ribosome binding site and a sequence for transcription and translation. The vector may be a plasmid, a phage particle or simply a potential genome insert. When a vector transforms a compatible host, the vector may replicate and function independently from the host genome, or may be integrated into the genome of the host in some cases. The term “operationally linked” used herein indicates that a gene to be expressed is functionally linked to its control sequences so that the gene is properly expressed. 
 A recombinant vector comprising a  Corynebacterium glutamicum  promoter nucleic acid molecule according to the present invention may be operationally linked to genes encoding various proteins to recombinationally produce target proteins. The target genes to be expressed using the vector of the present invention may be lysC encoding aspartate kinase, dapB encoding dihydrodipicolinate reductase, or the like, but are not limited thereto. 
 The target genes according to the present invention may be lysC encoding aspartate kinase. The lysC gene encoding aspartate kinase may have a base sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13 (Ikeda et al, Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2002 February; 58(2):217-23 A novel methodology employing  Corynebacterium glutamicum  genome information to generate a new L-lysine-producing mutant). 
 The recombinant vector according to the present invention may be pDZ-NCgl1504-lysC comprising a promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 operationally linked to lysC coding sequence (SEQ ID NO: 13) which is the target gene. The recombinant vector may also be pDZ-NCgl1305-lysC comprising a promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 operationally linked to lysC coding sequence (SEQ ID NO: 13) which is the target gene. 
 The present invention also provides a host cell transformed with a recombinant vector comprising a promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2. 
 The host cell, for example, prokaryotic cells, preferably  Escherichia coli  and coryneform bacteria, and more preferably coryneform bacteria may be transformed with the recombinant vector prepared such that the  Corynebacterium glutamicum  promoter nucleic acid molecule is operationally linked to the gene encoding a target protein in order to express the target protein. 
 The “coryneform bacteria” may be bacteria belonging to genus  Corynebacterium  or genus  Brevibacterium , particularly  Corynebacterium glutamicum , and more particularly  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032. The coryneform bacteria of the present invention may include other strains of the genus  Corynebacterium, Corynebacterium thermoaminogenes  FERM BP-1539,  Brevibacterium flavum  ATCC 14067,  Brevibacterium lactofermentum  ATCC 13869 and a mutant thereof producing L-amino acid, or  Corynebacterium glutamicum  KFCC 10881,  Corynebacterium glutamicum  KFCC 11001, and the like. 
 The term “transformation” used herein indicates the introduction of DNA into a host in such a way that it can be replicated either as an extrachromosomal element or by chromosomal integration. 
 The host cell may be a  Corynebacterium  transformed with a recombinant vector comprising a promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and lysC (SEQ ID NO: 13) operationally linked to the promoter. The host cell may preferably be  Corynebacterium glutamicum  (Deposition No. KCCM 10831P, deposited Dec. 28, 2006 under the Budapest Treaty in the International Depository Authority, Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), 361-221, Yurim B/D, Hongje-1-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-091, Republic of Korea, on Dec. 28, 2006). 
 The host cell may also be a  Corynebacterium  transformed with a recombinant vector comprising a promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 and lysC (SEQ ID NO: 13) operationally linked to the promoter. The host cell may preferably be  Corynebacterium glutamicum  (Deposition No. KCCM 10830P, deposited Dec. 28, 2006 under the Budapest Treaty in the International Depository Authority, Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM), 361-221, Yurim B/D, Hongje-1-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-091, Republic of Korea, on Dec. 28, 2006). 
 The present invention also provides a method of expressing a target gene, comprising culturing a host cell transformed with a recombinant vector having a promoter nucleic acid molecule derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 The target gene which is operationally linked to the promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 may be genes encoding proteins associated with synthesis of the final products such as lysine and threonine. The term “expressing a target gene” used herein indicates producing the final product of a synthetic pathway I which the protein encoded by the target gene is involved. Thus, the method of expressing a target gene may be a method of producing the final product of a synthetic pathway in which a protein encoded by the target gene is involved, by culturing a host cell transformed with a recombinant vector including the target gene. 
 The final product may be lysine. That is, the present invention may provide a method of producing lysine, comprising culturing a host cell transformed with a recombinant vector comprising lysC encoding a protein involved in lysine synthesis and a promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 operationally linked to the gene. 
 In the synthesis method of lysine according to the present invention, the host cell may be  Corynebacterium glutanicum  KCCM 10831P or Coryneform bacterium KCCM 10830P transformed with a recombinant vector including the promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:1 or 2 which is operationally linked to the target gene, lysC of SEQ ID NO:13. 
 The cultivation of the transformed host cells (transformants) may be performed according to commonly used methods in the art. The known cultivation methods are disclosed by Chmiel, (Bioprozesstechnik 1. Einfuhrung in die Bioverfahrenstechnik (Gustav Fischer Verlag, Stuttgart, 1991); and Storhas (Bioreaktoren and periphere Einrichtungen (Vieweg Verlag, Braunschweig/Wiesbaden, 1994)). 
 Culture media used for the cultivation need to meet requirements for growth of particular strains in an appropriate manner. Culture media for  Corynebacterium  strains are disclosed in, for example, Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology. American Society for Bacteriology. Washington D.C., USA, 1981. A carbon source for the culture media may be carbohydrate such as glucose, saccharose, lactose, fructose, maltose, starch and cellulose, oil and fat such as soybean oil, sunflower oil, caster oil and coconut oil, a fatty acid such as palmitic acid, stearic acid and linolenic acid, an alcohol such as glycerol and ethanol, and an organic acid such as acetic acid. The carbon source may be used alone or in a mixture. A nitrogen source may also be peptone, yeast extract, meat extract, malt extract, corn steep liquor, soy meal and urea or an inorganic compound, for example, ammonium sulfate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate and ammonium nitrate. The nitrogen source may be used alone or in a mixture. A phosphorous source may be potassium dihydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate or a sodium salt thereof. In addition, the culture media should contain a metal salt such as magnesium sulfate or iron sulfate, essential for the growth. Finally, the culture medium may further include essential substances for growth such as amino acids and vitamins. In addition, suitable precursors may also be added to the culture media. Those components of culture media may be added to the culture media on a batch or continuous basis during the cultivation. 
 The pH of the culture media can be regulated using a basic compound such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide and ammonia or an acidic compound such as phosphoric acid or sulfuric acid in an appropriate manner. In addition, foam formation may be prevented using an anti-foaming agent such as fatty acid polyglycol ester. Oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas, for example air, may be introduced into culture media in order to maintain an aerated state. The temperature of culture media may be in the range of 20 to 45° C., and preferably 25 to 40° C. The cultivation is continued until the amount of produced target substance reaches its maximum. In general, the cultivation is performed for 10 to 160 hours. 
 The present invention will be described in greater detail with reference to the following examples. The following examples are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. 
 Example 1 
 Preparation of Recombinant Vector Comprising Novel Promoter Sequences 
 1. Selection of Candidate Genes for Novel Promoter Derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum    
   Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032 was cultured in a 5 L fermenter, and cells were collected. The mRNA expression levels of about 3000 genes of  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032 was determined using genome DNA chips (cDNA chips, Genomictree, Inc., Korea). NCgl1504 and NCgl1305 genes which account for 0.88% and 0.43% based on the total genome expression, respectively, were selected as candidate genes for a novel promoter of the present invention. 
 2. Amplification of DNA Fragments of Putative Promoter Regions 
 The nucleotide sequences of genome of  Corynebacterium glutamicum  have been already fully determined and are well known (Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol., 62(2-3), 99-109 (2003): GenBank Accession No. NC — 003450). Sequence information of proteins (NCgl1504 and NCgl1305) was obtained from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) GenBank (U.S.A.) database. In order to amplify putative promoter regions (SEQ ID NO: 1—promoter region of NCgl1504, SEQ ID NO: 2—promoter region of NCgl1305) located upstream of open reading frame (ORF) of each gene, primers 1-4 including EcoRV/BamHI and NdeI restriction sites were synthesized based on the reported nucleotide sequences. Putative promoter regions of NCgl1504 and NCgl1305 genes were amplified in PCR using chromosomal DNA of  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032 as a template, respectively with primers 1 and 2 (SEQ ID NOS: 3 and 4) and primers 3 and 4 (SEQ ID NOS: 5 and 6) [Sambrook et al, Molecular Cloning, a Laboratory Manual (1989), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories] with 30 cycles of denaturation at 94° C., annealing at 55° C. for 1 min and polymerization at 72° C. for 30 sec. 
 3. Preparation of Recombinant Vector for Chromosomal Integration for Determining Promoter Activity 
 In order to determine activity of putative promoter regions of the obtained NCgl1504 and NCgl1305 in  Corynebacterium  chromosomes, we used vector pDZ for chromosomal integration (Korean Patent Application No. 1-2006-089672) developed by Cheiljedang Corporation using pACYC177 (New England Biolab, GenBank accetion #X06402), a cloning vector for  E. coli  as a basic vector. In order to insert genes into  Corynebacterium  chromosome, a novel promoter having a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NOS: 1 or 2 was inserted before the initiation site of lysC to obtain pDZ-Ncgl1504-lysC or pDZ-Ncgl1305-lysC vectors, respectively. 
 A recombinant vector in which putative promoter sites of NCgl1504 and NCgl1305 were inserted into lysC gene was prepared in the following manner. In order to amplify lysC of SEQ ID NO: 13, chromosomal DNA of  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032 was used as a template and PCR was performed using primers 5 and 6 (SEQ ID NOS: 7 and 8) and primers 7 and 8 (SEQ ID NOS: 9 and 10) (PCR conditions: 30 cycles of denaturation at 94° C., annealing at 55° C. for 1 min and elongation at 72° C. for 30 sec. LysC fragments amplified using TOPO Cloning Kit (Invitrogen) were digested with EcoRV and Klenau, the two blunt-ended fragments were ligated and cloned into pCR2.1-lysC. Then, promoter sites of pCR.2.1-lysC and NCgl1504 or NCgl1305 were cleaved using EcoRV and NdeI, and novel promoters of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 was inserted on the restriction sites using a DNA ligase. Then, the cloned fragments were transferred to the pDZ vector to prepare pDZ-Ncgl1504-lysC and pDZ-Ncgl1305-lysC vectors as shown in  FIG. 1 . 
 Example 2 
 Transformation with Recombinant Strains Including Novel Promoter Sequences 
   Corynebacterium glutamicum  KFCC 10881, a L-lysine-producing strain was transformed using the prepared recombinant vector pDZ-NCgl1504-lysC or pDZ-NCgl1305-lysC by electric pulse as disclosed in Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. (1999) 52:541-545. Transformed strains were selected in a selective medium including 25 mg/L of kanamycin (10 g/L of beef extract, 10 g/L of peptone, 5 g/L of yeast extract, 5 g/L of sodium chloride, 3.7 g/L of Brain Heart Infusion (BHI) and 9.1 g/L of sorbitol) in which the novel promoter on the reactor is integrated into the chromosome by homologous recombination. The insertion of the vector was identified whether the strains turned blue in a solid medium including X-gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-galactoside). The strains in which the vector is inserted into the chromosome via the first crossover were cultured by shaking in a nutrient culture medium at 30° C. for 8 hours, diluted to 10 4  to 10 −10  respectively and plated onto a solid medium including X-gal. Most of the colonies showed blue color, and strains in which inserted vector sequences was removed by the second crossover were screened by selecting white colonies. Using susceptibility to kanamycin, selected colonies were identified and finally confirmed by sequencing. The strain in which the promoter of lysC gene was replaced by Ncgl1504 was named as CA01-0037, and strains in which the promoter of lysC gene was replaced by Ncgl1305 were referred to as CA01-0036, and they were respectively deposited as KCCM 10831P and KCCM 10830P with the Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms on Dec. 28, 2006. 
 Example 3 
 Activity of Promoter Sequence in  Corynebacterium    
 The transformed strains were cultured to analyze the activity of promoter sequences as follows. 
 Each transformed  Corynebacterium glutamicum  strain was inoculated at a ratio of 1:20 in a 250 ml corner-baffle flask containing 25 ml of a culture medium [20 g of glucose, 5 g of ammonium sulfate, 5 g of yeast extract, 1.5 g of urea, 4 g of KH 2 PO 4 , 8 g of K 2 HPO 4 , 0.5 g of MgSO 4  7H 2 O, 150 μg of biotin, 1.5 mg of thiamine hydrochloride, 3 mg of calcium pantothenate, 3 mg of nicotinamide (based on 1 L of distilled water), pH 7.2] and was cultured at 30° C. while shaking at 200 rpm until the culture reached the mid-exponential growth phase (OD 600 =10). When the cultivation is terminated, the cells were collected by centrifugation, were suspended in 100 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.0), were lysed by sonication, and then were high-speed-centrifuged to obtain a supernatant. 1 mg of proteins from the supernatant was used to measure the activity of lysC enzyme (Black & Wright (1955b)). As a result, the change in activity of lysC was confirmed in strains in which the promoter for lysC was replaced by NCgl1504 or NCgl1305 as shown in the following Table. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Comparison of promoter activity by lysine addition 
 
 
 
 
 Strain 
 Relative degree of promoter expression 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 KFCC 10881 
 1 
 
 
 CA01-0036(KCCM 10830) 
 0.74 
 
 
 CA01-0037(KCCM 10831) 
 1.67 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY 
 According to the present invention, a novel promoter nucleic acid sequence derived from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  is provided for use in efficient expression of a gene of interest. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
