
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
 This application is a non-provisional U.S. patent application which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/309,738, filed Mar. 2, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 
 INCORPORATION OF SEQUENCE LISTING 
 A computer readable form of the sequence listing is provided herewith, containing the file named “38 — 21(54885)B_SEQ_LST”, which is 100776 bytes in size (measured in MS-DOS), and is herein incorporated by reference. This Sequence Listing consists of SEQ ID NOs:1-13. 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 This invention relates generally to the field of insect inhibitory  Bacillus thuringiensis  proteins and, more particularly, to  B. thuringiensis  crystal proteins that inhibit Lepidopteran insects. Isolated polynucleotides and proteins, transgenic plants and related methods that provide for inhibition of Lepidopteran insects are described. Also described are methods for combining the  B. thuringiensis  crystal proteins that inhibit Lepidopteran insects with distinct insect control agents to obtain increased levels of Lepidopteran insect inhibition, Lepidopteran insect resistance management, or an expanded spectrum of insect pest control. 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 Insecticidal protein derived from  Bacillus thuringiensis  bacterial species (i.e., Bt proteins) are known in the art. A small number of the Bt proteins have been used for commercial purposes. Recent detection of Bt-resistant pests targeted for control by certain commercial products expressing Bt proteins has heightened the necessity for the discovery of novel Bt proteins that are capable of controlling such resistant species, preferably by modes of action that are different when compared to that exhibited by the protein to which the pests have become resistant. Therefore, it is important to identify Bt proteins that are effective in controlling such targeted pests, particularly the targeted pests that have developed resistance to certain commercial Bt proteins. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 The present invention provides a polynucleotide which encodes an insect inhibitory protein comprising a Cry1 polypeptide, wherein said Cry1 polypeptide comprises a first domain III, and a supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence operably linked to said Cry1 polypeptide, and wherein said operable linkage of said supplemental domain III is (a) to the N-terminus of said first domain III polypeptide sequence; or (b) to the C-terminus of said first domain III polypeptide sequence; and 
 said Cry1 polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of a Cry1A, a Cry1B, a Cry1C, a Cry1D, a Cry1E, a Cry1F, a Cry1H, a Cry1I, a Cry1J, a Cry1K, Cry1L, and a Cry1 chimeric polypeptide produced from two or more different Cry1 proteins; or 
 said Cry1 polypeptide is a Cry1A polypeptide selected from the group consisting of a Cry1Aa, a Cry1Ab, a Cry1Ac, a Cry1Ad, a Cry1Ae, a Cry1Af, a Cry1Ah, and Cry1Ai polypeptide; or 
 said supplemental domain III polypeptide sequence comprises an amino acid sequence of a native Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence; or 
 said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence comprises an engineered domain III polypeptide sequence comprising, optionally, (a) amino acid substitutions, insertions, and/or deletions compared to an amino acid sequence of a native Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence, or (b) segments of two or more Cry protein domain III amino acid sequences, or (c) amino acid substitutions, insertions, and/or deletions in one or more segments of said engineered domain III polypeptide sequence of optional subpart (b); or 
 wherein said Cry1 polypeptide comprises a Cry1A polypeptide and wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is selected from the group consisting of a Cry1B, a Cry1C, a Cry1D, a Cry1E, a Cry1F, a Cry1H, a Cry1I, a Cry1J, a Cry1K, a Cry1L, a Cry2A, a Cry3A, a Cry 3B, a Cry9A domain III polypeptide sequence, and an engineered variant thereof; or 
 wherein said Cry1A polypeptide comprises a Cry1Ac polypeptide and wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is selected from the group consisting of a Cry1F, a Cry2Ab, a Cry 3Bb, a Cry9A domain III polypeptide sequence, and an engineered variant thereof; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is a Cry1F domain III polypeptide sequence and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:1; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against  Agrotis, Helicoverpa , or  Striacosta  relative to a Cry1Ac polypeptide; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is a Cry2Ab domain III polypeptide sequence and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:3; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against  Helicoverpa  or  Striacosta  relative to a Cry1 Ac polypeptide; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is a Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:5; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against  Striacosta  relative to a Cry1Ac polypeptide; or 
 a transgenic plant or plant part derived therefrom comprising a polynucleotide of any one of the foregoing; or 
 wherein said plant or plant part comprises a concentration of said insect inhibitory protein encoded by said polynucleotide that inhibits a Lepidopteran insect; or 
 wherein said Lepidopteran insect is  Agrotis, Helicoverpa, Ostrinia, Striacosta , or  Spodoptera ; or 
 wherein said plant part is selected from a leaf, a stem, a flower, a sepal, a fruit, a root, or a seed; or 
 a transformed host cell comprising a polynucleotide of any one of the foregoing; or 
 wherein said host cell is a bacterial cell or a plant cell; or 
 wherein said plant cell is selected from the group consisting of alfalfa, banana, barley, broccoli, bean, broccoli, cabbage, canola, carrot, cassava, castor, cauliflower, celery, chickpea, citrus, coconut, coffee, corn, clover, cotton, a cucurbit, Douglas fir, eggplant, eucalyptus, flax, garlic, grape, hops, lettuce, Loblolly pine, millets, melons, nut, oat, olive, onion, ornamental, palm, pasture grass, pea, peanut, pepper, pigeonpea, pine, potato, poplar, pumpkin, Radiata pine, radish, rapeseed, rice, rye, safflower, shrub, sorghum, Southern pine, soybean, spinach, squash, strawberry, sugar beet, sugarcane, sunflower, sweet gum, sweet potato, switchgrass, tea, tobacco, tomato, triticale, turf grass, watermelon, and wheat plant cells; or 
 wherein said plant cell is a corn plant cell; or 
 a plant derived from said transformed plant host cell of any of the foregoing wherein said plant comprises said polynucleotide; or 
 wherein said bacterial cell is selected from the group consisting of an  Agrobacterium , a  Bacillus , an  Escherichia , a  Salmonella , a  Pseudomonas , and a  Rhizobium  bacterial cell; or 
 wherein said bacterial cell is a  Bacillus thuringiensis  cell. 
 The present invention also provides a method for controlling a Lepidopteran insect comprising the steps of:
         (a) providing a Lepidopteran insect inhibitory amount of an insect inhibitory protein, wherein said insect inhibitory protein is encoded by any one of the foregoing polynucleotides of this invention; and   (b) contacting said Lepidopteran insect with said inhibitory amount of said insect inhibitory protein, thereby controlling a Lepidopteran insect; or       
 wherein said Lepidopteran insect is  Agrotis, Spodoptera, Helicoverpa, Ostrinia , or  Striacosta ; or 
 wherein said Lepidopteran insect inhibitory amount of said polypeptide sequence is provided in a Lepidopteran insect diet in step (a) and said Lepidopteran insect is contacted in step (b) by permitting said Lepidopteran insect to feed on said diet; or 
 wherein said Lepidopteran insect diet is a transgenic plant; or 
 wherein said Lepidopteran insect inhibitory amount of said polypeptide sequence is provided in step (a) by spraying a composition comprising said polypeptide on a plant; or 
 wherein said composition comprises bacterial cells or bacterial spores that express said polypeptide; or 
 wherein said bacterial cells or bacterial spores are  Bacillus  cells or  Bacillus  spores; or 
 wherein said composition comprises a parasporal crystal containing said polypeptide. 
 The present invention also provides an insect inhibitory protein comprising a Cry1 polypeptide wherein a supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is operably linked to the first domain III polypeptide sequence of said Cry1 polypeptide; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is operably linked to the N-terminus of said first domain III polypeptide sequence of said Cry1 polypeptide; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is operably linked to the C-terminus of said first domain III polypeptide sequence of said Cry1 polypeptide; or 
 wherein said Cry1 polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of a Cry1A, a Cry1B, a Cry1C, a Cry1D, a Cry1E, a Cry1F, a Cry1H, a Cry1I, a Cry1J, a Cry1K, and a Cry1L polypeptide; or 
 wherein said Cry1 polypeptide is a Cry1A polypeptide selected from the group consisting of a Cry1Aa, a Cry1 Ab, a Cry1Ac, a Cry1Ad, a Cry1Ae, a Cry1Af, a Cry1Ah, and Cry1Ai polypeptide; or 
 said supplemental domain III polypeptide sequence comprises an amino acid sequence of a native Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence; or 
 said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence comprises an engineered domain III polypeptide sequence comprising, optionally, (a) amino acid substitutions, insertions, and/or deletions compared to an amino acid sequence of a native Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence, or (b) segments of two or more Cry protein domain III amino acid sequences, or (c) amino acid substitutions, insertions, and/or deletions in one or more segments of said engineered domain III polypeptide sequence of optional subpart (b); or 
 wherein said Cry1 polypeptide comprises a Cry1A polypeptide and wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is selected from the group consisting of a Cry1B, a Cry1C, a Cry1D, a Cry1E, a Cry1F, a Cry1H, a Cry1I, a Cry1J, a Cry1K, a Cry1L, a Cry2A, a Cry3A, a Cry 3B, a Cry9A domain III polypeptide sequence, and an engineered variant thereof; or 
 wherein said Cry1A polypeptide comprises a Cry1Ac polypeptide and wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is selected from the group consisting of a Cry1F, a Cry2Ab, a Cry 3Bb, a Cry9A domain III polypeptide sequence, and an engineered variant thereof; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is a Cry1F domain III polypeptide sequence and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:1; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO:1; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises the polypeptide sequence of SEQ ID NO:1; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against  Agrotis, Helicoverpa , or  Striacosta  relative to a Cry1 Ac polypeptide; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is a Cry2Ab domain III polypeptide sequence and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:3; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO:3; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises the polypeptide sequence of SEQ ID NO:3; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against  Helicoverpa , or  Striacosta  relative to a Cry1Ac polypeptide; or 
 wherein said supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence is a Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence and wherein said insect inhibitory protein has a polypeptide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:5; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO:5; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises the polypeptide sequence of SEQ ID NO:5; or 
 wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against  Striacosta  relative to a Cry1Ac polypeptide. 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION 
 Bt toxin proteins (or “Cry proteins”) of the Cry1-9 and other classes such as Cry10-11, Cry21, and the like, are classes of toxin proteins that are known to exhibit a three dimensional three domain tertiary structure, generally consisting of domains referred to as domains I, II, and III. It has been discovered that the insecticidal portions of these insecticidal Bt toxins can be coupled, fused, linked connected, or mated to a supplemental Cry protein domain III, the resulting protein fusion or chimera exhibiting improved insecticidal activity selected from the group consisting of improved or larger host range specificity, improved or greater insecticidal activity, and the like, when compared to the Bt toxin lacking the supplemental domain III. The supplemental Cry protein domain III to which the insecticidal portion of the particular insecticidal Bt toxin is fused can be any native Bt insecticidal protein domain III or optionally any engineered domain III. For example, a Cry1Aa1 toxin portion can be fused at its carboxyl terminal end to a supplemental Cry protein domain III duplicated from the Cry1Aa1 toxin portion domain III, or from any other toxin portion domain III that is different from a Cry1Aa1 domain III. Such novel insecticidal toxin protein chimeras surprisingly exhibit an increased range of insecticidal activity directed to specific plant pests as well as an increase in insecticidal activity when compared to the insecticidal toxin protein portion lacking the supplemental Cry protein domain III amino acid segment. The supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence can also comprise an engineered domain III polypeptide sequence comprising, optionally, (a) amino acid substitutions, insertions, or deletions compared to an amino acid sequence of a native Cry protein domain III polypeptide sequence, or (b) segments of two or more Cry protein domain III amino acid sequences, or (c) amino acid substitutions, insertions, or deletions in one or more segments of said engineered domain III polypeptide sequence of optional subpart (b). 
 The embodiments disclosed in this application correspond to and are applicable to any particular first three domain Cry toxin portion in which a supplemental Cry protein domain III from that or any other three domain Cry toxin is operably linked to the first three domain Cry toxin. The linkage can be insertion of the supplemental Cry protein domain III between domains 2 and 3 of the first three domain Cry toxin, or the supplemental Cry protein domain III can be linked to the carboxy terminus of the first cry toxin domain III. The supplemental Cry protein domain III can be a domain III that is the same as the domain III of the first Cry toxin or can be any other domain III obtained or derived from a second Cry toxin that is different from the first. The supplemental Cry protein domain III can consist of the amino acid sequence of a domain III from a second Cry toxin that is a member of the same category and class of Cry toxin to which the first Cry toxin has been assigned, or can consist of a domain III from a second Cry toxin that is a member of a completely different category and class of Cry toxin than that to which the first Cry toxin has been assigned. Schnepf et al (MMBR 1998 (62)775-806) describes the features of each individual category and class of three domain Cry toxin proteins, particularly with reference to identifying the range of amino acid sequences in each three domain protein that correspond to domains I, II and III, relative to the conserved homology blocks present in each category and class of three domain toxin proteins. In this case, the breakpoint to be used for insertion of a supplemental Cry protein domain III is considered to be within the amino acid segment that is positioned between any domain II and domain III of any particular three domain Cry toxin, more specifically, within homology block three, and the breakpoint to be used for insertion of a supplemental Cry protein domain III is considered to be within the amino acid segment that is positioned within homology block five of any particular three domain Cry toxin protein, the carboxy terminus of such domain III being positioned within homology block five, except for Cry2 classes of proteins, and then the carboxy terminus of the domain III of the protein to which the supplemental Cry protein domain III is to be incorporated lies within the amino acid segment of such Cry2 from about amino acid 560 to about amino acid 582. 
 Several such novel insecticidal toxin proteins are described herein, including T1C465 (SEQ ID NO:1), T1C467 (SEQ ID NO:3), and T1C469 (SEQ ID NO:5). 
 Accession No. NRRL B-50283 is an  E. coli  K12 strain containing plasmid vector pMON126556 deposited on Apr. 21, 2009 with the Agricultural Research Culture Collection, International Depository Authority, Northern Regional Research laboratory (NRRL), at 1815 North University Street, Peoria, Ill., USA Zip 61064. The plasmid contains an open reading frame as set forth in SEQ ID NO:2 encoding the TIC465 amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:1. 
 Accession No. NRRL B-50284 is an  E. coli  K12 strain containing plasmid vector pMON126559 has been deposited on Apr. 21, 2009 with the Agricultural Research Culture Collection, International Depository Authority, Northern Regional Research laboratory (NRRL), at 1815 North University Street, Peoria, Ill., USA Zip 61064. The plasmid contains an open reading frame as set forth in SEQ ID NO:4 encoding the TIC467 amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:3. 
 Accession No. NRRL B-50285 is an  E. coli  K12 strain containing plasmid vector pMON126560 has been deposited on Apr. 21, 2009 with the Agricultural Research Culture Collection, International Depository Authority, Northern Regional Research laboratory (NRRL), at 1815 North University Street, Peoria, Ill., USA Zip 61064. The plasmid contains an open reading frame as set forth in SEQ ID NO:6 encoding the TIC469 amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:5. 
 Transgenic plants expressing multi-domain toxin proteins that inhibit specific insect pests are provided by this invention, i.e., with reference to multi-domain toxin proteins it is intended to include insecticidal portions of Bt toxin proteins that are coupled, fused, linked, connected, or mated to a supplemental protein segment derived from a domain III of that or any other Bt toxin protein exhibiting a three domain type structure. The coupling, fusing, linking, connecting, or mating of the supplemental segment is generally at or near the carboxyl terminal end of the insecticidal portion of the reference Bt toxin protein, or alternatively, the supplemental Cry protein domain III segment can be inserted between the reference Bt toxin protein domain II and the reference Bt toxin protein domain III, so long as there are tandem domain III segments at the carboxyterminal end of the segment consisting of the domain I and domain II of the reference Bt toxin protein. Transgenic plants expressing novel proteins of the present invention inhibit Lepidopteran insects including, but not limited to,  Ostrinia nubilalis  (European Corn Borer),  Helicoverpa zea  (Corn Earworm),  Agrotis ipsilon  (Black cutworm),  Spodoptera frugiperda  (Fall Armyworm), and  Striacosta albicosta  (Western Bean Cutworm). Transgenic plants that express a TIC465-type protein of SEQ ID NO:1, an insect inhibitory fragment thereof, or a biological equivalent thereof and that provide protection against Lepidopteran insects including, but not limited to,  Ostrinia nubilalis  (European Corn Borer),  Helicoverpa zea  (Corn Earworm),  Agrotis ipsilon  (Black cutworm),  Spodoptera frugiperda  (Fall Armyworm) and  Striacosta albicosta  (Western Bean Cutworm) are specifically provided. 
 The novel toxin protein compositions disclosed herein will find particular utility as insect inhibitory agents for topical and/or systemic application to field crops, grasses, fruits and vegetables, and ornamental plants. The compositions can be applied in the form of crystal spore mixtures of  Bacillus thuringiensis  bacteria, or in other formulation methods such as whole cell preparations, cell extracts, cell suspensions, cell homogenates, cell lysates, cell supernatants, cell filtrates, or cell pellets of a cell culture (preferably a bacterial cell culture such as a  Bacillus thuringiensis  culture) that expresses one or more of the proteins of the present invention or applied in the form of a water dispersible granule or powder which may comprise lysed or unlysed bacterial cells, spores, or crystals containing one or more of the novel crystal proteins disclosed herein. Alternatively, the insect inhibitory composition may consist of a wettable powder, spray, emulsion, colloid, aqueous or organic solution, dust, pellet, or collodial concentrate. 
 It is entirely possible that insects may develop resistance to certain insecticides. Most insect resistance management strategies using genetically modified crops expressing insect inhibitory agents rely on the use of refuge areas that are comprised of crop plants that lack the insect inhibitory gene. In theory, the refuge provides a region in which non-resistant insect populations harboring non-resistant genetic alleles are maintained, lowering the potential for resistance to develop within the insect population. However, the refuge strategy suffers from several short-comings. First, the growers must accept reduced yields on the acreage planted with the insect inhibitory gene. Second, it is not clear that refuges will effectively control dominant resistance alleles that can arise in the insect population. 
 An insect resistance management strategy can employ transgenic crops that express two distinct insect inhibitory agents that operate through different modes of action. In this case, any insects with resistance to either one of the insect inhibitory agents will be controlled by the other insect inhibitory agent, thus reducing the chances of resistance developing in the insect population. 
 Proteins of the present invention can be combined together to provide two modes of action or can be combined individually with different Bt proteins toxic to the same insect pests to which the proteins of the present invention exhibit inhibitory function, or together with chemical insecticides or with dsRNA components that are designed to suppress essential genes in one or more target pests. These combinations can be provided in planta or as topical applications such as seed treatments. 
 For control of Lepidopteran pests, combinations of insect inhibitory multi-domain toxin proteins with Lepidopteran-active proteins such as Cry1A proteins (U.S. Pat. No. 5,880,275). Cry1B (U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/525,318), Cry1C (U.S. Pat. No. 6,033,874), Cry1F, VIP proteins and VIP protein chimeras constructed using portions of crystalline Bt proteins, Cry1A/F chimeras (U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,070,982; 6,962,705; and 6,713,063), and a Cry2Ab protein (U.S. Pat. No. 7,064,249) are specifically contemplated. For control of Coleopteran pests, combinations of insect inhibitory multi-domain toxin proteins with Coleopteran-active proteins such as Cry3Bb (U.S. Pat. No. 6,501,009) are specifically contemplated. 
 DNA sequences encoding insect inhibitory multi-domain toxin protein molecules and other insect inhibitory agents such as double stranded RNA molecules and/or non-multi-domain toxin proteins can be combined in a single plant either through direct transformation, by breeding, or a combination thereof. 
 It is further anticipated that the combination of insect inhibitory multi-domain toxin protein molecules and other insect inhibitory agents such as double stranded RNA molecules and/or non-multi-domain toxin proteins can result in unexpected synergistic insect inhibitory effects that are not observed with either the multi-domain toxin insect inhibitory protein alone, the insect inhibitory ribonucleotide alone, or the non-multi-domain toxin insect inhibitory protein alone. Synergistic effects include but are not limited to, (i) quantitative changes in LC 50 , EC 50 , IC 50 , percent mortality, or percent stunting values and (ii) qualitative changes in the spectrum of insect inhibition (i.e., Lepidopteran) that does not reflect the simple combination of the spectrum exhibited by each insect inhibitory agent alone (i.e., the combination of Lepidopteran insect inhibition provided by one agent and Lepidopteran insect inhibition provided by another agent). 
 In certain embodiments, multi-domain toxin proteins can be constructed by operable linkage of a polynucleotide encoding a first  Bacillus thuringiensis  insect inhibitory protein comprising a domain I, a domain II and a first domain III region with a polynucleotide encoding a supplemental Cry protein domain III region which may be the same as the first domain III or obtained from a distinct second  Bacillus thuringiensis  crystal protein different from the first. In certain embodiments, the  Bacillus thuringiensis  insect inhibitory protein is a Cry1, a Cry2, or a Cry3 insect inhibitory protein. 
 In certain embodiments, the chimeras of the present invention can further comprise at their C-terminal ends a protoxin domain. Such protoxin domains can be obtained from any of: i) the same Cry1-Cry9-type or other three domain Cry protein (if available, Cry2 and Cry3 type proteins lack such protoxin domains) as the N-terminal domain I, II, and first domain III regions of the multi-domain toxin; ii) from a Cry1-type protein that is distinct from the N-terminal domain I, II, and first domain III region Cry1-type protein; or iii) from the same parent protein as the supplemental Cry protein domain III region of the multi-domain toxin. 
 Operable linkage of the supplemental Cry protein domain III to domains I, II, and III of the Cry1-type, Cry2-type, or Cry3-type protein can be achieved in any manner that provides for a composite multi-domain toxin protein that exhibits insect inhibitory activity. In certain embodiments, the supplemental Cry protein domain III region directly abuts either the N- or C-terminus of the Cry1-type, Cry2-type, or Cry3-type domain III region. In other embodiments, the supplemental Cry protein domain III region is operably linked to the N- or C-terminus of the Cry1-type, Cry2-type, or Cry3-type domain III region by one, two, three, or more spacer amino acid residues. Spacer amino acids can be derived from any source. In certain embodiments, the spacer amino acids that operably link the supplemental Cry protein domain III region to the Cry1-type, Cry2-type, or Cry3-type domain III region can comprise a one or more amino acid residues that function as a flexible protein hinge region. Protein hinge regions can be obtained from known hinge regions or can be synthetic. Hinge regions of various proteins have been identified and, in certain non-limiting and exemplary embodiments, can comprise serine and glycine residues (Flores et al., BMC Bioinformatics 8:167, 2007). Synthetic hinge regions include, but are not limited to, Ser-Gly-Gly-Ser-Gly (SGGSG) peptides, one or more Gly residue(s), Gly-Ser-Gly (GSG), Gly-Ser-Gly-Ser-Gly (GSGSG), and various permutations of glycine and/or serine. 
 Approximate boundaries of the domain regions of exemplary and non-limiting Cry1-type, Cry2-type, or Cry3-type proteins are described herein. In certain embodiments provided herein, domain I, domain II, and/or domain III in any particular Cry1-type, Cry2-type, or Cry3-type protein can comprise any of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, or more additional residues on either the N-terminal end or C-terminal end of the domain. In certain embodiments provided herein, domain I, domain II, and/or domain III in any particular Cry1-type, Cry2-type, or Cry3-type protein can also comprise any of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, or fewer residues on either the N-terminal end or C-terminal end of the domain. 
 In considering any of the foregoing methods, it is further contemplated that the amino terminal and carboxy terminal boundaries of the domain regions Cry1 and Cry2-type proteins correspond to: for domain I, from about amino acid residues 1-33 at the amino terminus to about amino acid residues 214-224 at the carboxy terminus; for domain II, from about amino acid residues 224-228 at the amino terminus to about amino acid residues 413-439 at the carboxy terminus; and for domain III, from about amino acid residues 425-450 at the amino terminus to about amino acid residues 560-582 at the carboxy terminus. However, it is contemplated that the absolute boundary of domain I, domain II, and/or domain III in any particular Cry1 protein can vary by any of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, or more additional or fewer residues on either the N-terminal end or C-terminal end of the range of indicated residues. Thus, it is not necessary to join the various domains at any exact boundary residues specified in order to obtain an insect inhibitory multi-domain toxin protein. In one exemplary embodiment, a supplementary Cry protein domain III of a Cry1F protein toxin was operably linked to the carboxy terminus of domain III of a Cry1Ac protein by insertion of the supplementary Cry1F domain III coding region between the C-terminal end of the Cry1Ac domain III coding region and the N-terminal end of the Cry1Ac protoxin domain coding region to yield a TIC465-type multi-domain protein (SEQ ID NO:1) that is encoded by SEQ ID NO:2. In another exemplary embodiment, a supplementary Cry protein domain III of a Cry2Ab was operably linked to carboxy terminus of a domain III of a Cry1Ac toxin protein by insertion of the supplementary Cry2Ab domain III coding region between the C-terminal end of the Cry1Ac domain III coding region and the N-terminal end of the Cry1Ac protoxin domain coding region to yield a TIC467-type multi-domain protein (SEQ ID NO:3) that is encoded by SEQ ID NO:4. In another exemplary embodiment, a supplementary Cry protein domain III of a Cry3Bb was operably linked to the carboxy terminal end of domain III of a Cry1Ac protein by insertion of the supplementary Cry3Bb domain III coding region between the C-terminal end of the Cry1Ac domain III coding region and the N-terminal end of the Cry1Ac protoxin domain coding region to yield a TIC469-type multi-domain protein (SEQ ID NO:5) that is encoded by SEQ ID NO:6. It is further contemplated that residues from a junction region (i.e. the junction of the supplementary domain III with the domain III of the Cry1A-type protoxin) can be derived from either parent molecule so long as the amino residues at the junction are either similar to the amino acids of the other parent molecule, substitutable for the amino acids of the other parent molecule so that they do not adversely effect insect inhibitory activity of the resultant multi-domain toxin protein, and/or are substitutable for the amino acids of the other parent molecule in that they do not disrupt secondary structural elements present at the junctions that include, but are not limited to, alpha-helices or beta-strands found in the respective domains. It is also contemplated that wholly synthetic residues that are not found in either parent molecule can be used to form the junctions between domains so long as the amino residues at the junction are either similar to the amino acids of the other parent molecule, substitutable for the amino acids of the other parent molecule in that they do not adversely effect insect inhibitory activity of the resultant multi-domain toxin protein, and/or are substitutable for the amino acids of the other parent molecule in that they do not disrupt secondary structural elements present at the junctions that include, but are not limited to, alpha-helices or beta-strands found in the respective domains. In certain embodiments, the synthetic residues that form the junction between the supplementary Cry protein domain III regions can comprise a protein hinge region. 
 In one embodiment, the multi-domain toxin proteins comprise insect inhibitory proteins referred to herein as “TIC465-type” proteins that comprise, from their N- to C-terminus, domains I, II, and III of a Cry1Ac protein followed by a supplementary operably linked C-terminal Cry1F domain III. In certain embodiments, such multi-domain toxin TIC465-type proteins can further comprise at their C-terminal end a Cry1A protoxin domain. An exemplary and non-limiting, TIC465-type multi-domain toxin protein that further comprises the Cry1Ac protoxin domain at its C-terminus is provided herein as SEQ ID NO:1. In certain embodiments, the TIC465-type multi-domain toxin proteins comprise insect inhibitory proteins that have at least 70%, 80%, 85%, 88%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1 or to residues 1 to 754 of SEQ ID NO:1. TIC465-type multi-domain toxin proteins which exhibit at least 70%, 80%, 85%, 88%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% amino acid sequence identity to residues 1 to 754 sequence of SEQ ID NO:1 that also exhibit insect inhibitory activity against  Ostrinia  sp.,  Helicoverpa  sp.,  Agrotis  sp.,  Spodoptera  sp., and/or  Striacosta  sp. are also provided. Insect inhibitory fragments of TIC465-type multi-domain toxins include, but are not limited to, any one of or any combination of: i) proteins comprising a complete, partial, or internal deletion of the C-terminal protoxin domain of SEQ ID NO:1; ii) N-terminal deletions of about 1 to about 3, about 1 to about 5, about 1 to about 10, about 1 to about 20, or about 1 to about 30 amino acid residues of SEQ ID NO:1; and/or iii) C-terminal deletions of about 1 to about 3, about 1 to about 5, about 1 to about 10, amino acid residues of a protein comprising residues 1 to 754 of SEQ ID NO:1. Nucleic acids encoding any of the aforementioned TIC465-type multi-domain toxins are also provided. 
 In another embodiment, the multi-domain toxin proteins comprise insect inhibitory proteins referred to herein as “TIC467-type” proteins that comprise, from their N- to C-terminus, domains I, II, and III of a Cry1Ac protein followed by a supplementary operably linked C-terminal Cry2Ab domain III. In certain embodiments, such multi-domain toxin TIC467-type proteins can further comprise at their C-terminal end a Cry1A protoxin domain. In an exemplary embodiment, TIC467-type multi-domain toxin protein that further comprises the Cry1Ac protoxin domain at its C-terminus is provided herein as SEQ ID NO:3. In certain embodiments, the TIC467-type multi-domain toxin proteins comprise insect inhibitory proteins that have at least 70%, 80%, 85%, 88%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3 or to residues 1 to 774 of SEQ ID NO:3. TIC467-type multi-domain toxin proteins which exhibit at least 70%, 80%, 85%, 88%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% amino acid sequence identity to residues 1 to 774 sequence of SEQ ID NO:3 that also exhibit insect inhibitory activity against  Ostrinia  sp.,  Helicoverpa  sp.,  Agrotis  sp.,  Spodoptera  sp., and/or  Striacosta  sp. are also provided. Insect inhibitory fragments of TIC467-type multi-domain toxins include, but are not limited to, any one of or any combination of: i) proteins comprising a complete, partial, or internal deletion of the C-terminal protoxin domain of SEQ ID NO:3; ii) N-terminal deletions of about 1 to about 3, about 1 to about 5, about 1 to about 10, about 1 to about 20, or about 1 to about 30 amino acid residues of SEQ ID NO:3; and/or iii) C-terminal deletions of about 1 to about 3, about 1 to about 5, about 1 to about 10, amino acid residues of a protein comprising residues 1 to 774 of SEQ ID NO:3. Nucleic acids encoding any of the aforementioned TIC467-type multi-domain toxins are also provided. 
 In another embodiment, the multi-domain toxin proteins comprise insect inhibitory proteins referred to herein as “TIC469-type” proteins that comprise, from their N- to C-terminus, domains I, II, and III of a Cry1Ac protein followed by a supplementary operably linked C-terminal Cry3Bb domain III. In certain embodiments, such multi-domain toxin TIC469-type proteins can further comprise at their C-terminal end a Cry1A protoxin domain. In an exemplary embodiment, TIC469-type multi-domain toxin protein that further comprises the Cry1Ac protoxin domain at its C-terminus is provided herein as SEQ ID NO:5. In certain embodiments, the TIC469-type multi-domain toxin proteins comprise insect inhibitory proteins that have at least 70%, 80%, 85%, 88%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:5 or to residues 1 to 756 of SEQ ID NO:5. TIC469-type multi-domain toxin proteins which exhibit at least 70%, 80%, 85%, 88%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% amino acid sequence identity to residues 1 to 756 sequence of SEQ ID NO:5 and that also exhibit insect inhibitory activity against  Ostrinia  sp.,  Helicoverpa  sp.,  Agrotis  sp.,  Spodoptera  sp., and/or  Striacosta  sp. are also provided. Insect inhibitory fragments of TIC469-type multi-domain toxins include, but are not limited to, any one of or any combination of: i) proteins comprising a complete, partial, or internal deletion of the C-terminal protoxin domain of SEQ ID NO:5; ii) N-terminal deletions of about 1 to about 3, about 1 to about 5, about 1 to about 10, about 1 to about 20, or about 1 to about 30 amino acid residues of SEQ ID NO:5; and/or iii) C-terminal deletions of about 1 to about 3, about 1 to about 5, about 1 to about 10, amino acid residues of a protein comprising residues 1 to 756 of SEQ ID NO:5. Nucleic acids encoding any of the aforementioned TIC469-type multi-domain toxins are also provided. 
 Peptides, polypeptides, and proteins biologically functionally equivalent to multi-domain toxin include, but are not limited to, amino acid sequences containing conservative amino acid substitutions in the multi-domain toxin protein sequences. An example of multi-domain toxin proteins that can be substituted to obtain biological equivalents include, but are not limited to, a multi-domain toxin protein sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 3, 5, or an insect inhibitory fragment thereof. In such amino acid sequences, one or more amino acids in the sequence is (are) substituted with another amino acid(s), the charge and polarity of which is similar to that of the native amino acid, i.e., a conservative amino acid substitution, resulting in a silent change. 
 In view of the foregoing, it will be seen that the several advantages of the invention are achieved and attained. 
 The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. 
 EXAMPLES 
 The following disclosed embodiments are merely representative of the invention, which may be embodied in various forms. Thus, specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting. 
 Example 1 
 Construction of the Novel, Synthetic Lepidopteran-Active Insect Toxin Coding Sequences Encoding the Proteins, TIC465, TIC467 and TIC469. 
 Coding sequences, encoding novel, chimeric insect toxin proteins were constructed using methods well known in the art such as polymerase chain reaction and restriction endonuclease digestion-based cloning. Each novel toxin coding sequence provided below was constructed using a Cry1Ac coding sequence in which an additional domain III from a different toxin molecule coding sequence was inserted in between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1 coding sequence. The novel insect toxin molecule TIC465 protein sequence is presented as SEQ ID NO:1 and is encoded by the coding sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:2. It is comprised of a Cry1 coding sequence in which domain III of Cry1F is inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1Ac coding sequence. The novel insect toxin molecule TIC467 protein sequence is presented as SEQ ID NO:3 and is encoded by the coding sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:4. It is comprised of a Cry1 coding sequence in which domain III of Cry2Ab is inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1Ac coding sequence. The novel insect toxin molecule TIC469 protein sequence is presented as SEQ ID NO:5 and is encoded by the coding sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:6. It is comprised of a Cry1 coding sequence in which domain III of Cry3Bb is inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1Ac coding sequence. Each novel insect toxin protein described in this example provides improved insecticidal properties over those known in the art and is demonstrated in examples 2 through 5. 
 Example 2 
 TIC465, TIC467 and TIC469 Demonstrate Improved and Novel Toxicity Against Lepidopteran Pests 
 This example illustrates the toxicity of the TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 insect toxin proteins when provided in an insect diet and fed to Black Cutworm (BCW,  Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworms (CEW,  Helicoverpa zea ), European Corn Borers (ECB,  Ostrinia nubilalis ), Western Bean Cutworms (WBC,  Striacosta albicosta ) and Fall Armyworms (FAW,  Spodoptera frugiperda ). 
 The coding sequence encoding the TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin proteins (presented as SEQ ID NOS:2, 4 and 6, respectively) were cloned into a bacterial expression vector. The resulting vector was used to transform  Bacillus thuringiensis  strain, EG10650 by electroporation. The transformed cells were grown in C2 medium for 3 days at 30 degrees Celsius. After 3 days of growth, most of the culture had lysed as is expected in Bt cultures. The lysed cell preparation was treated with Benzonase™ (Novagen; 12.5 U/ml sample) to reduce sample viscosity. PMSF (100 mM Phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride in Isopropylalcohol) was added to the suspension to a final concentration of 0.1 mM and allowed to incubate for one hour at 30 degrees Celsius. The suspension was then centrifuged at 2500×g for 10 min. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet re-suspended in 5 mL TX buffer (10 mM Tris/HCl, 0.005% Triton X-100, pH 7.5) and centrifuged again. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet was re-suspended again in another 5 ml of TX buffer. The resulting Bt spore/crystal mixtures containing the toxin protein in TX buffer was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and quantified using spot densitometry. 
 Bt spore/crystal mixtures were submitted for insect diet-overlay bioassays against the following insects: Black Cutworm (BCW,  Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworms (CEW,  Helicoverpa zea ), European Corn Borers (ECB,  Ostrinia nubilalis ), Western Bean Cutworms (WBC,  Striacosta albicosta ) and Fall Armyworms (FAW,  Spodoptera frugiperda ) in 96-well format. Southland Multiple Species Lepidopteran diet (Southland Products, Lake Village, Ark.) was dispensed into 96-well Falcon round bottom plates with 200 microliters of diet per well. Protein samples in buffer were overlaid on top of the diet using 20 microliters of sample per well. Typically twenty four wells were treated with each dose. The sample overlay was allowed to dry before target insects were added to the well. In the case of ECB, FAW and WBC, one insect neonate per well was added to the plates before covering with a perforated plastic seal. In the case of ECB and WBC, one insect neonate per well was added to the plates before covering with a perforated plastic seal. In the case of CEW and first instar BCW, eggs suspended in 0.2% agar were dispensed into the wells. The wells were again dried before covering the plate with a perforated plastic seal. The bioassay plates were incubated for five days with neonate infested plates or for six days with egg overlay infestations. Plates were placed in an incubator set to 27 degrees Celsius with no light cycle at 60% relative humidity. After the requisite incubation period, the wells were assessed for mortality and stunting. Bioassays were repeated several times for consistency in the analysis using a variety of concentrations to determine the minimal amount of toxin required to cause significant mortality (p<0.0001). The insect toxin Cry1 Ac (presented as SEQ ID NO:7 and encoded by SEQ ID NO:8) was used for comparison in each bioassay. Table 1 illustrates the amount of TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 required to cause significant mortality (p<0.0001) when provided in an insect diet and fed to Black Cutworm (BCW,  Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworms (CEW,  Helicoverpa zea ), European Corn Borers (ECB,  Ostrinia nubilalis ), Western Bean Cutworms (WBC,  Striacosta albicosta ) and Fall Armyworms (FAW,  Spodoptera frugiperda ). Since each toxin is greater in size relative to the Cry1 Ac control, the values presented below are expressed in molarity to demonstrate the improved properties observed for each chimeric toxin molecule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 1 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 TIC465, TIC467 and TIC469 toxin mortality (p<0.0001) to  
 
 
 Black Cutworm (BCW,  Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworms (CEW,  
 
 
   Helicoverpa zea ),European Corn Borers (ECB,  Ostrinia nubilalis ),  
 
 
 Western Bean Cutworms (WBC,  Striacosta albicosta ) and  
 
 
 Fall Armyworms (FAW,  Spodoptera frugiperda ) 
 
 
 
 
   
 BCW 
 ECB 
 CEW 
 FAW 
 WBC 
 
 
   
 (moles/ 
 (moles/ 
 (moles/ 
 (moles/ 
 (moles/ 
 
 
 Toxin 
 liter)  
 liter)  
 liter) 
 liter) 
 liter) 
 
 
   
 
 
 Cry1Ac 
 1.5 × 10 -7   
 9.4 × 10 -10   
 1.5 × 10 -8   
 1.9 × 10 -7   
 7.5 × 10 -6   
 
 
 TIC465 
 1.7 × 10 -8   
 4.2 × 10 -10   
 7.4 × 10 -9   
 1.7 × 10 -7   
 6.7 × 10 -8   
 
 
 TIC467 
 1.3 × 10 -7   
 3.3 × 10 -7    
 7.3 × 10 -9   
 3.3 × 10 -7   
 3.3 × 10 -7   
 
 
 TIC469 
 1.7 × 10 -7   
 6.7 × 10 -10   
 1.3 × 10 -8   
 3.3 × 10 -7   
 3.3 × 10 -7   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 As can be seen in Table 1 above, TIC465 demonstrates superior control over Cry1Ac when presented in the diet of BCW, CEW, and WBC. There is approximately a 100 fold reduction in the amount of TIC465 insect toxin protein required to control WBC relative to Cry1Ac and an approximately 10 fold reduction in the amount of TIC465 insect toxin protein required to control BCW and CEW relative to Cry1Ac. With respect to ECB and FAW equivalent or slightly less amounts of TIC465 is required to provide significant control relative to Cry1Ac. The TIC467 chimeric toxin molecule shows improved performance against CEW relative to Cry1Ac, requiring approximately 10 fold less toxin to cause significant mortality. With respect to BCW, FAW and WBC TIC467 and Cry1Ac require similar levels of toxin to cause significant mortality. TIC467 is less effective than Cry1Ac in causing mortality to ECB. The amount of TIC469 insect toxin required to cause significant mortality in BCW, ECB, CEW and FAW is approximately the same as that of Cry1Ac. There is an approximately 10 fold reduction in the amount of TIC469 toxin required to cause significant mortality in WBC relative to Cry1Ac. 
 Each novel chimeric toxin, TIC465, TIC467 and TIC469 was constructed using a Cry1 Ac coding sequence in which an additional domain III from a different toxin molecule coding sequence was inserted in between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1 coding sequence. The novel insect toxin molecule TIC465 protein sequence is comprised of a Cry1Ac coding sequence in which domain III of Cry1F is inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1 Ac coding sequence. The novel insect toxin molecule TIC467 protein sequence is comprised of a Cry1Ac coding sequence in which domain III of Cry2Ab is inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1Ac coding sequence. The novel insect toxin molecule TIC469 protein sequence is comprised of a Cry1Ac coding sequence in which domain III of Cry3Bb is inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the Cry1Ac coding sequence. 
 The addition of a supplemental domain III from another insect toxin, inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the parent molecule Cry1Ac, results in many cases in improved toxicity to specific insects while maintaining an equivalent or lower level of toxicity to other insects susceptible to Cry1Ac. 
 The novel chimeric insect toxin molecules, TIC465, TIC467 and TIC469 may provide an alternative mode of action against the insect species that is operatively different from the mode of action of the parent Cry1Ac molecule due to the introduction of a supplemental domain III within the toxin molecule composition. Therefore, the production of chimeric toxin molecules containing a supplemental domain III of the same or different insect toxin molecule inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of the parent molecule may provide a different or novel mode of action against the insect species. This different or novel property will be useful in strategies in which multiple modes of control of an insect species are desirable. For the purpose of providing multiple insect toxin coding sequences for expression in transformed plants, coding sequences can be designed for expression in plants in which each coding sequence is sufficiently different to prevent recombination from occurring during transformation or crossing of transformed lines. For example, a plant can be transformed with an expression cassette containing a plant codon designed Cry1Ac coding sequence and another plant transformed with an expression cassette containing a plant codon designed TIC465 coding sequence. Each coding sequence encodes a Cry1Ac molecule wherein the TIC465 coding sequence has a supplemental domain III of another insect toxin molecule inserted between the domain III and protoxin domain of Cry1Ac. The Cry1Ac portion of the TIC465 toxin coding sequence can be designed to be divergent enough from the Cry1Ac toxin coding sequence to prevent recombination from occurring. Both transformed plants can therefore be crossed to provide a resulting progeny plant expressing both the Cry1Ac and TIC465 insect toxin molecules, providing enhanced control with potentially two modes of action against the insect species. Alternatively, a single plant can be transformed with both Cry1 Ac and TIC465 expression cassettes to provide enhanced control with potentially two modes of action against an insect species. 
 Example 3 
 Synthesis of Genes Encoding a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 Protein and Expression Cassettes for Expression in Plants 
 Nucleotide sequences encoding TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 proteins (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3 and 5, respectively) is designed and synthesized. For example, a non-native coding region designed for plant expression of TIC465 is provided here as TIC465nno (SEQ ID NO:9). The synthetic TIC465nno coding sequence is characterized by a lower A+T content than the native coding regions that was derived from  Bacillus thuringiensis  and used to construct the chimeric toxin molecule coding sequence, eliminating regions of the native sequences that are A+T rich and replacing those with sequences that have fewer A+T residues. Similarly, non-native coding sequences can be designed for a TIC467nno or TIC469nno coding sequence for expression in plants. 
 A variety of plant expression cassettes can be constructed with the non-native TIC465nno coding sequence (SEQ ID NO:9). Such expression cassettes are useful for transient expression in plant protoplasts or transformation of plant cells. Typical expression cassettes are designed with respect to the eventual placement of the protein within the cell. One set of expression cassettes is designed in a manner to allow the protein to be translated and remain in the cytosol. Another set of expression cassettes is designed to have a transit peptide contiguous with the toxin protein to allow targeting to an organelle of the cell such as the chloroplast or plastid. All expression cassettes are designed to begin at the 5′ end with a promoter which can be comprised of multiple promoter elements and enhancer elements contiguously linked to boost the expression of the transgene. The promoter sequence is usually followed contiguously with one or more leader sequences 3′ to the promoter. An intron sequence is often provided 3′ to the leader sequence to improve expression of the transgene. A coding sequence for the toxin or transit peptide and coding sequence for the toxin is located 3′ of the promoter, leader and intron configuration. A terminator sequence is provided 3′ of the coding sequence to facilitate termination of transcription and provides sequences important for the polyadenylation of the resulting transcript. All of the elements described above are arranged contiguously with often additional sequence provided for the construction of the expression cassette such as restriction endonuclease sites or ligation independent cloning sites. 
 A set of expression cassettes designed for cytosolic expression and plastid targeted expression of the insect toxin protein are described herein. A first expression cassette used for the expression of the TIC465 toxin protein for cytosolic expression is presented as SEQ ID NO:10. The cassette is comprised in the 5′ to 3′ direction of a Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S enhanced promoter and leader, operably linked to a  Triticum aestivum  Lhcb1 leader, which is in turn operably linked to a  Oryza sativa  actin 1 intron, which in turn is linked to the TIC465nno coding sequence and which is finally operably linked to a  Triticum aestivum  Hsp17 terminator. A second expression cassette is designed for plastid targeted expression of the TIC465 toxin protein in which an N-terminal  Arabidopsis  shkG chloroplast peptide encoding sequence (i.e. CTP2) is fused in frame to the non-native TIC465nno coding sequence. The sequences encoding the CTP2-TIC465nno plastid targeted toxin protein (SEQ ID NO:11) is presented as SEQ ID NO:12. The plastid targeted expression cassette is presented as SEQ ID NO:13. The cassette is comprised in the 5′ to 3′ direction of a Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S enhanced promoter and leader, operably linked to a  Triticum aestivum  Lhcb1 leader, which is in turn operably linked to a  Oryza sativa  actin 1 intron, which in turn is linked to the CTP2-TIC465nno coding sequence and which is finally operably linked to a  Triticum aestivum  Hsp17 terminator. A similar set of expression cassettes can be designed to express a TIC467nno, CTP2-TIC467nno, TIC469nno or CTP2-TIC469nno coding sequence. 
 Example 4 
 Construction of  Agrobacterium -Mediated Transformation Vectors Containing a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 Expression Cassette and Transfer to  Agrobacterium    
 To construct  Agrobacterium  mediated transformation vectors, the TIC465nno, TIC467nno and TIC469nno expression cassettes are cloned into suitable vectors between the  Agrobacterium  border sequences such that they would be transferred to the genome of a host plant cell by suitable disarmed  Agrobacterium  hosts comprising the constructed vectors along with a selectable marker gene. More specifically, the restriction fragment containing the entire cytosolic expression cassette for expression of a TIC465nno coding sequence (SEQ ID NO:10) is cloned into an  Agrobacterium  plant transformation vector. Similarly, the restriction fragment containing the entire plastid targeted expression cassette for a CTP2-TIC465nno (SEQ ID NO:13) is cloned into an  Agrobacterium  plant transformation vector. The vectors containing the TIC465nno or CTP2-TIC465nno expression cassettes (i.e., untargeted cassette or targeted cassette) are introduced into  Agrobacterium  by electroporation or by tri-parental mating. A similar set of binary vectors containing expression cassettes for expression of a TIC467nno, CTP2-TIC467nno, TIC469nno or CTP2-TIC469nno coding sequence can be produced as described above. 
 Example 5 
 In Planta Testing of TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 for Control of Lepidopteran Pests 
 This example illustrates the toxicity of the TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 insect toxin proteins to Black Cutworms (BCW,  Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworms (CEW,  Helicoverpa zea ), European Corn Borers (ECB,  Ostrinia nubilalis ), Western Bean Cutworms (WBC,  Striacosta albicosta ) and Fall Armyworms (FAW,  Spodoptera frugiperda ) when expressed in plant tissue and presented in the insect diet. Corn plant tissue is transformed with a TIC465nno, CTP2-TIC465nno, TIC467nno, CTP2-TIC467nno, TIC469nno or CTP2-TIC469nno expression cassette described above. The transformed tissue is selected by methods well known in the art and allowed to regenerate into whole plants. By approximately V3 to V8 stage of the R0 plant development, the plants will be ready for use in insect testing. Whole plants or young leaf tissue expressing the TIC465nno, TIC467nno or TIC469nno toxin protein is infested with Black Cutworms (BCW,  Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworms (CEW,  Helicoverpa zea ), European Corn Borers (ECB,  Ostrinia nubilalis ), Western Bean Cutworms (WBC,  Striacosta albicosta ) or Fall Armyworms (FAW,  Spodoptera frugiperda ) and allowed to feed on the plant tissue from one to several days. Control plants using the same variety of corn plant that was used in the transformation but not having been transformed with a TIC465nno, TIC467nno or TIC469nno insect toxin protein are infested as well. The insect larvae are weighed prior to infestation to provide a baseline measurement of their size. After a specified infestation period, the insects are recovered and weighed. In addition, the quantities of living and dead insects are determined. In some cases, all insects will be killed by feeding upon the plants expressing the TIC465nno, TIC467nno, or TIC469nno toxin protein. In other cases, some insects will remain alive; however there will be a noticeable reduction in growth relative to the control plant infestations. 
 Further testing can be conducted in plants derived from crosses of selected transformed events to provide more precise information regarding the performance of the insect toxins, TIC465nno, TIC467nno and TIC469nno with respect to transgene copy number. R0 transformed events are selected based upon the presence of a single-copy of the TIC465nno, CTP2-TIC465nno, TIC467nno, CTP2-TIC467nno, TIC469nno or CTP2-TIC469nno transgene cassette using methods known in the art. The selected R0 transformed events are crossed with a non-transformed corn variety to produce F1 progeny. The F1 progeny are grown and tested for the presence of the TIC465nno, CTP2-TIC465nno, TIC467nno, CTP2-TIC467nno, TIC469nno or CTP2-TIC469nno transgene cassette using methods known in the art. By approximately V3 to V8 stage of the F1 plant development, the plants will be ready for use in insect testing. Whole plants or young leaf tissue expressing a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin protein is infested with Black Cutworms (BCW,  Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworms (CEW,  Helicoverpa zea ), European Corn Borers (ECB,  Ostrinia nubilalis ), Western Bean Cutworms (WBC,  Striacosta albicosta ) and Fall Armyworms (FAW,  Spodoptera frugiperda ) and allowed to feed on the plant tissue from one to several days. Control plants using the same variety of corn plant that was used in the transformation but not having been transformed with a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 insect toxin protein are infested as well. The insect larvae are weighed prior to infestation to provide a baseline measurement of their size. After a specified infestation period, the insects are recovered and weighed. In addition, the quantities of living and dead insects are determined. In some cases, all insects will be killed by feeding upon the plants expressing a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin protein. In other cases, some insects will remain alive; however there will be a noticeable reduction in growth relative to the control plant infestations. The level of expression of a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin protein expressed in the tissue presented to the insect can be determined using ELISA with antibodies directed against a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin protein. Alternatively, antibodies directed against the parent polypeptide molecules to a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469, the Cry1Ac toxin polypeptide molecule and/or the supplemental Cry protein domain III polypeptide molecule, may be used for quantification. In certain embodiments, epitopes present on the Cry1Ac toxin and/or the supplemental Cry protein domain III molecules responsible for stimulating antibody production in mammals are presented by a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin molecule. 
 Example 6 
 Insect Control Using TIC465, TIC467 and/or TIC469 in Combination with Other Insect Control Agents 
 This example illustrates several methods by which increased resistance to a specific insect pest or broader resistance to several classes of insect pests can be achieved to provide greater insect protection for a crop plant. All of the strategies described below can also be used to enhance an insect resistance management program. 
 I) Combination of TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 with Insect Inhibitory dsRNA Molecules in Plants 
 Double stranded RNA mediated gene suppression of biological function within target insect pests can be combined with genes encoding a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 protein. Insect genes that perform key biological functions that can be targeted by dsRNA are described in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 2005/110068 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006/0021087. Homologs of genes described in these publications can be identified in any target insect pest desired for control and can be sequences derived from Lepidopteron species, Hemipteran species, Coleopteran species or any other order of insect that is identified as an agronomic pest. Expression of dsRNA molecules is achieved by recovery of transgenic plants comprising a promoter active in those plants that is operably linked to fragments of the target pest sequence of at least 19-24 nucleotides in length and the reverse complements of those sequences. For example, for the control of Black cutworm ( Agrotis ipsilon ), Corn Earworm ( Helicoverpa zea ) and European Corn Borer ( Ostrinia nubilalis ) dsRNA molecules derived from sequences encoding a V-ATPase A subunit molecule, presented as SEQ ID NOS: 146, 147 and 148, respectively in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 2005/110068 can be expressed in plant tissues expressing a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin protein to achieve greater levels of control of the insect pest. The combination of an insect toxin protein with a dsRNA can provide synergistic control greater than the sum of each control agent presented individually in transformed plants. 
 II) Combination of TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 with Insect Inhibitory Proteins Other than TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 in Plants 
 Methods of obtaining transgenic plants that express Lepidopteran-active proteins such as Cry1A proteins (U.S. Pat. No. 5,880,275), Cry1B (U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/525,318), Cry1C (U.S. Pat. No. 6,033,874), Cry1F, VIP proteins and VIP protein chimeras constructed using portions of crystalline Bt proteins, Cry1A/F chimeras (U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,070,982, 6,962,705, and 6,713,063), and a Cry2Ab protein (U.S. Pat. No. 7,064,249) are well characterized. Plants expressing both a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 protein and another Lepidopteran active protein can be obtained by making crosses of individual transgenic plants that express a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 and individual transgenic plants that express the other Lepidopteran proteins. Alternatively, plant transformation vectors that provide for expression of a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 and another Lepidopteran active protein can be used to transform plants. The combination of an insecticidal protein or proteins with one or more double stranded RNA, all independently active against a Lepidopteran pest, is preferred as it provides two different modes of action (resistance management), and results in unexpected synergistic effects that are not observed with either the insecticidal protein alone, the double stranded RNA alone, or combinations of two different insecticidal proteins, both active against a Lepidopteran pests, or combinations of two different dsRNA's, both active against a Lepidopteran pests. 
 In addition, the spectrum of resistance of the crop plant could be broadened to contain resistance to additional orders of insect pests such as Coleopteran, Hemipteran, or Dipteran pests in addition to a Lepidopteran pest using both the expression of insect toxin proteins and double stranded RNA molecules within the plant. Toxin molecules directed towards a Coleopteran pest such as a Cry3Bb (U.S. Pat. No. 6,501,009) can be expressed in plants expressing a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin protein to provide control of insect pests affecting plant tissues above and below the ground. A Coleopteran directed dsRNA such as those described in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 2005/110068 can also be expressed in addition to the insect toxin molecules providing greater synergistic control of the coleopteran pest. Similarly, a toxin molecule and/or dsRNA which control any non-Lepidopteran pest can be expressed in plants expressing a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 toxin protein to provide a greater range of insect pest protection. 
 III) Combination of TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 with Insect Inhibitory Agents Provided as Seed Treatments 
 Seeds from transgenic plants expressing a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 can be treated with a variety of insect inhibitory agents or other pesticidal agents such as fungicides, bacteriocides and nematocides to provide additional control of insect and other plant pests. Seed treatments can enable one to protect the germinating and emerging seedling from various plant pests to assure proper germination and healthy plants in the initial days of growth. The insect inhibitory agent can be another insect toxin protein, a dsRNA, a protein other than an insect toxin with insect inhibitory properties or an organic chemical pesticide. The seed treatment can also be a fungicide, a bacteriocide or nematocide which provides control of a fungal, bacterial or nematode pest. A nematocide for example could be used in combination with TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 to provide the above ground part of the plant with protection against Lepidopteron pests while below ground, at the roots, protection is provided against a nematode pest. 
 The insecticidal or pesticidal agent compound formulation can be applied to seeds by any standard seed treatment methodology, including but not limited to, mixing in a container (e.g., a bottle or bag), mechanical application, tumbling, spraying, or immersion. Combinations of these methods can also be employed. An important consideration in the preparation of seed treatment formulations is that the ingredients be non-phytotoxic to the seed. In addition, colorants are normally added for identification purposes to protect from the direct use of treated seed in human or animal food products. Sticking agents are also commonly used to keep the formulation on the seed during handling, shipping, etc. The insecticidal or pesticidal agent compound formulation can be provided in a polymer matrix, and an agricultural adjuvant. The composition can take a variety of forms, including a liquid suspension, a wettable powder, a granule, a water-dispersible granule, a suspension concentrate, or the like. Seeds can be coated using a variety of methods including imbibition, solid matrix priming, coating, spraying and dusting. Seed treatments can take a variety of forms, including suspension concentrates, solutions, emulsions, powders, granules, as well as using polymeric carriers or stickers. For example, the coating process can comprise spraying a composition comprising the insecticidal or pesticidal agent compound(s) onto the seed while agitating the seed in an appropriate apparatus, such as a tumbler or a pan granulator. 
 An insect inhibitory agent can be selected from a wide range of pyrethroids and other insecticides, and especially including those having low water solubility, low volatility and previously considered to be “non-systemic”, are capable of providing protection against shoot/foliar feeding pests to provide both below ground and above ground control of an insect pest. Pesticides suitable for use as seed treatments for insect control include compounds selected from azoles, azines, pyrethrins, pyrethroids, organophosphates, caramoyloximes, pyrroles, pyrazoles, pyridines, amidines, halogenated hydrocarbons and carbamates and combinations and derivatives thereof. Known pesticides within these categories are listed in The Pesticide Manual, 11th Ed., C. D. S. Tomlin, Ed., British Crop Protection Council, Farnham, Surry, UK (1997). The insecticidal, bacteriocidal, fungicidal or nematocidal agent incorporated in the seed treatment must be contained in a formulation that will provide stability to the agent and deliver the agent in a manner consistent with control of the plant pest. The combination of a TIC465, TIC467 or TIC469 with a seed treatment with one or more agents with inhibitory effects to a plant pest or plant pests will provide additional methods of plant pest control. 
 Various patent and non-patent publications are cited herein, the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Documents cited herein as being available from the World Wide Web at certain interne addresses are also incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Certain biological sequences referenced herein by their “NCBI Accession Number” can be accessed through the National Center of Biotechnology Information on the world wide web at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. 
 As various modifications could be made in the constructions and methods herein described and illustrated without departing from the scope of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting. Thus, the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims appended hereto and their equivalents. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
