
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Pat. App. No. 60/991,266, filed Nov. 30, 2007 and hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 This invention is in the field of biotechnology. More specifically, this invention pertains to a process of producing the antioxidant coenzyme Q 10  and at least one ω-3/ω-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids in oleaginous yeast, yeast biomass produced by the process, and oils obtained from the yeast biomass. 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 Antioxidants can be described as compounds (e.g., enzymes, organic molecules) that slow the rate of oxidation reactions or that can counteract the damaging effects of oxygen. Although the term technically applies to molecules reacting with oxygen, it is often applied to molecules that protect from any free radical (i.e., a molecule with an unpaired electron, such as hydroxyl radicals, lipid oxyl or peroxyl radicals, singlet oxygen, and peroxinitrite formed from nitrogen oxide). Free radicals are natural by-products of cellular processes in an organism or are created by exposure to environmental factors. Within cellular organisms, free radicals can cause cellular and tissue damage, which can ultimately lead to disease. Antioxidants neutralize free radicals by donating one of their own electrons to the free radical, since the radicalized antioxidant molecule is more stable as a free-radical than the original free-radical. 
 A variety of nutrients or dietary components have antioxidant properties and thus can function to decrease the tissue content of reactive oxygen. Common antioxidants include vitamins C and E, β-carotene, proanthocyanidin, the minerals selenium and zinc, and coenzyme Q. Coenzyme Q, also known as ubiquinone and referred to herein as “CoQ”, refers to a series of related 2-3-dimethoxy-5-methyl-benzoquinones with a polyisoprenoid side chain in the 6-position that are widely distributed in animals, plants and microorganisms. 
 In structure, the CoQ group closely resembles the members of the vitamin K group and the tocopherylquinones (derived from tocopherols, e.g., vitamin E) in that they all possess: 1) a quinonoid ring derived from tyrosine or phenylalanine that functions as an electron-carrier; and, 2) a long hydrocarbon tail comprised of 5-carbon isoprene units. The quinones of the CoQ series, that is Q 6 , Q 7 , Q 8 , Q 9  and Q 10 , found in various biological species differ only slightly in chemical structure based on the length of the hydrocarbon tail, which ranges from 30 to 50 carbon atoms (corresponding to 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 isoprenoid units in the side chain) and which facilitates CoQ's localization in mitochondrial or cytoplasmic membranes. Differences in properties are due to the differences in length of the side chain. 
 The antioxidant properties of CoQ 10  are directly related to the coenzyme's bioenergetic functions. Specifically, CoQ 10  is involved in the terminal electron transport system by transporting electrons from organic substrates to oxygen in the respiratory chain of mitochondria, which is essential in the production of biochemical energy (e.g., ATP) in all cells of aerobic organisms. As an energy carrier, CoQ 10  is continually going through an oxidation-reduction cycle. Specifically, CoQ 10  is reduced to a free radical semiquinone by the uptake of a single electron; reduction of this enzyme-bound intermediate by a second electron yields ubiquinol. As ubiquinol, the molecule holds electrons loosely and can easily donate one or two electrons to neutralize free radicals, which can be created in part by the energy-generating process. 
 The antioxidant properties of CoQ 10  are significant. In addition to quenching free radicals that threaten cellular components, such as nucleic acids and proteins in the mitochondria, ubiquinol also inhibits lipid peroxidation (i.e., degradation of lipids) in biological membranes and in low-density lipoprotein [“LDL”]. Furthermore, functionality of CoQ 10  may be enhanced in the presence of carotenoid compounds (see Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2005/097091 A1). 
 Based on the physiological role that CoQ 10  plays within living organisms, the coenzyme has become widely used as a nutritional supplement and as a pharmacological active agent. It has wide use and acceptance in the treatment of: mitochondrial disorders, cardiovascular disease processes, atherosclerosis, slow muscle degeneration (dystrophy or atrophy), neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis [“ALS”]), periodontal disease, diabetes and CoQ 10  deficiency. CoQ 10  is also believed to strengthen the immune system, act as an anticancer agent and help counteract the aging processes. 
 CoQ 10  is currently available via chemical synthesis, semi-chemical synthesis and microbial conversion (Choi, Jin-Ho et al.,  Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.,  68:9-15 (2005)). In the biotechnological arena, several strains of  Agrobacterium tumefaciens, A. radiobacter, Rhodobacter sphaeroides  and  Paracoccus denitrificans  have been identified that produce CoQ 10  in significant quantities (Yoshida et al.,  J. Gen. Appl. Microbiol.,  44:19-26 (1998)), and marine bacteria of the genus  Erythrobacter, Sphingomonas, Exiguobacterium, Lutibacterium  and  Bacillus  have also been found to naturally produce CoQ 10  (Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008023264). Genetic engineering of microbes, such as  Escherichia coli, Rhodobacter sphaeroides , and plants such as brown rice for CoQ 10  biosynthesis has also been demonstrated with the expression of heterologous genes encoding decaprenyl diphosphate synthase (e.g., Zahiri et al.,  Metabol. Engineering,  8:406-416 (2006); JP 10057072; JP 2005211020; JP 2006 204215; Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 00/047746; Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 02/026933; U.S. Pat. No. 6,461,842; U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2006/010519; Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 07/120423). An oleaginous microbial host cell having the ability to co-produce CoQ 10  and at least 25% of its dry cell weight [“DCW”] as oil, wherein the CoQ 10  can advantageously help protect against autoxidation of the oil is expected to be advantageous. Both CoQ 10  and oil can be extracted with hexane or other solvents, thus reducing production cost. The offering of a final product containing both ingredients, that is, a stabilized microbial oil, may command a higher premium or competitive advantage. 
 An oleaginous microbial host cell that can co-produce CoQ 10  and polyunsaturated fatty acids [“PUFAs”] has not been reported. This deficiency exists despite previous descriptions of the utility of co-administration of CoQ 10  with PUFAs (see e.g., U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2002/0198177 A1) and despite previous recognition that identification of such a microbe would be advantageous (e.g., see screening studies of various Thraustochytrids (marine fungoid protists) by Ocean Nutrition Canada, Ltd., as described in Burja et al.,  Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.,  72:1161-1169 (2006) and Armenta et al.,  J. Agric, Food Chem.,  54:9752-9758 (2006)). A means to recombinantly produce both CoQ 10  and PUFAs in a single microbial host cell would create a single product comprising both ingredients. This is particularly attractive when the recombinant cell biomass is used directly in the formulation, such as an animal feed. 
 Additionally, there are no reports of a microbial host cell that can co-produce CoQ 10 , PUFAs and carotenoids, wherein said host cell comprises at least 25% of its DCW as oil, although it is recognized that the functionality of CoQ 10  may be enhanced in the presence of carotenoid compounds (see Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2005/097091 A1). 
 Carotenoids are themselves generally classified as antioxidants and may help to protect one another from oxidation during production and/or storage. As such, some carotenoids may alternatively be viewed as natural antioxidants in certain product applications where the carotenoid is not used as a pigment; for example, use of lycopene as an antioxidant in food products and/or animal feeds. 
 Many commercial products are formulated to contain a mixture of natural antioxidants, such as CoQ 10 , and fats/lipids and/or pigments. For example, animal feeds, dietary supplements, and personal care products are formulated to contain antioxidants, PUFAs and carotenoids. Typically, for example, a commercial product formulator will obtain these compounds from a variety of sources and formulate them into a final product that contains an effective amount of each ingredient. The composition, purity and source of each ingredient may vary, resulting in a final product formulation that may require significant monitoring and/or processing to obtain the desired product specifications. 
 Engineering an oleaginous microorganism to simultaneously produce both CoQ 10  and at least one ω-3/ω-6 PUFA (and optionally at least one C 40  carotenoid) would create a higher value product or reduce production costs. Since carotenoids and PUFAs may undergo oxidation during storage, materials comprising these compounds are typically supplemented with one or more antioxidants. However, many of the synthetic antioxidants currently used in the market are undesirable due to their cost and/or possible safety concerns. If a microbial host produces both carotenoids and PUFAs in conjunction with a reduced form of CoQ 10 , the CoQ 10  may aid in protecting compositions comprising carotenoids, PUFAs, and mixtures thereof from oxidation. 
 The problem to be solved therefore, is to provide a recombinant oleaginous yeast capable of producing the antioxidant CoQ 10  in combination with at least one ω-3/ω-6 PUFA (and optionally at least one C 40  carotenoid). 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 The stated problem has been solved by providing a recombinant oleaginous yeast capable of producing the antioxidant, coenzyme Q 10 , and polyunsaturated fatty acids. 
 Provided herein are methods of co-producing coenzyme Q 10  with polyunsaturated fatty acids (and optionally, C 40  carotenoids) from the same oleaginous yeast. 
 The importance of PUFAs is well understood. For example, certain PUFAs are important biological components of healthy cells and are recognized as: “essential” fatty acids that cannot be synthesized de novo in mammals and instead must be obtained either in the diet or derived by further desaturation and elongation of linoleic acid (LA; 18:2 ω-6) or α-linolenic acid (ALA; 18:3 ω-3); constituents of plasma membranes of cells, where they may be found in such forms as phospholipids or triacylglycerols; necessary for proper development (particularly in the developing infant brain) and for tissue formation and repair; and, precursors to several biologically active eicosanoids of importance in mammals (e.g., prostacyclins, eicosanoids, leukotrienes, prostaglandins). Additionally, a high intake of long-chain ω-3 PUFAs has cardiovascular protective effects (Dyerberg, J. et al.,  Amer. J. Clin. Nutr.,  28:958-966 (1975); Dyerberg, J. et al.,  Lancet,  2(8081):117-119 (1978); Shimokawa, H.,  World Rev. Nutr. Diet,  88:100-108 (2001); von Schacky, C. and Dyerberg, J.,  World Rev. Nutr. Diet,  88:90-99 (2001)). Numerous other studies document wide-ranging health benefits conferred by administration of ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs against a variety of symptoms and diseases, such as asthma, psoriasis, eczema, diabetes, cancer. 
 Carotenoids are required elements of aquaculture. Salmon and shrimp aquaculture are particularly useful applications for this invention as carotenoid pigmentation is critically important for the value of these organisms (F. Shahidi, J. A. Brown, Carotenoid pigments in seafood and aquaculture: Critical reviews in food  Science  38(1):1-67 (1998)). Additionally, carotenoids have utility as intermediates in the synthesis of steroids, flavors and fragrances and compounds with potential electro-optic applications. 
 Accordingly provided herein is a method for the production of CoQ 10  in a recombinant oleaginous yeast, comprising:
         a) providing an oleaginous yeast, the oleaginous yeast
           1.) producing a quinone of the coenzyme Q series selected from the group consisting of: CoQ 6 , CoQ 7 , CoQ 8  and CoQ 9 ,   2.) comprising genetic constructs encoding a functional ω-3/ω-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic pathway whereby the transformed yeast cells produce at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid; and,   3.) optionally comprising genetic constructs encoding a functional carotenoid biosynthetic pathway whereby the transformed yeast cells produce at least one carotenoid;   
   b) transforming the oleaginous yeast host cell with at least one copy of a genetic construct encoding decaprenyl diphosphate synthase; and,   c) culturing the transformed yeast cells of step (b) under suitable conditions, whereby the decaprenyl diphosphate synthase is expressed and whereby CoQ 10  is produced.       
 Also described herein is an oil comprising coenzyme Q 10  and at least one compound selected from the group consisting of: a ω-6 PUFA and a ω-3 PUFA. 
 A recombinant oleaginous yeast is provided comprising at least one copy of a genetic construct encoding decaprenyl diphosphate synthase. 
 Described herein is also a food or feed product comprising an effective amount of a microbial oil comprising coenzyme Q 10  and PUFAs (and optionally C 40  carotenoids). 
 BIOLOGICAL DEPOSITS 
 The following biological materials were made under the terms of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 Biological Material 
 Accession Number 
 Date of Deposit 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
   Yarrowia lipolytica  Y2047 
 ATCC PTA-7186 
 Oct. 26, 2005 
 
 
   
   Yarrowia lipolytica  Y2201 
 ATCC PTA-7185 
 Oct. 26, 2005 
 
 
   
   Yarrowia lipolytica  Y2096 
 ATCC PTA-7184 
 Oct. 26, 2005 
 
 
   
   Yarrowia lipolytica  Y3000 
 ATCC PTA-7187 
 Oct. 26, 2005 
 
 
   
   Yarrowia lipolytica  Y4128 
 ATCC PTA-8614 
 Aug. 23, 2007 
 
 
   
   Yarrowia lipolytica  Y4127 
 ATCC PTA-8802 
 Nov. 29, 2007 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 As used herein, “ATCC” refers to the American Type Culture Collection International Depository Authority located at ATCC, 10801 University Blvd., Manassas, Va. 20110-2209, U.S.A. The listed deposit will be maintained in the indicated international depository for at least 30 years and will be made available to the public upon the grant of a patent disclosing it. The availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by government action. 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES AND SEQUENCE DESCRIPTIONS 
   FIGS. 1A and 1B  illustrate the CoQ biosynthetic pathway. 
   FIGS. 2A and 2B  illustrates the ω-3/ω-6 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway. 
   FIGS. 3A and 3B  illustrates the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway from farnesyl pyrophosphate to astaxanthin. 
   FIG. 4  provides plasmid maps for the following: (A) pZUF17; and, (B) pDMW359. 
   FIG. 5  diagrams the development of  Yarrowia lipolytica  strain Y4184U, producing EPA in the total lipid fraction. 
 
 The invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings and Sequence Listing, which form a part of this application. 
 The following sequences comply with 37 C.F.R. §1.821-1.825 (“Requirements for Patent Applications Containing Nucleotide Sequences and/or Amino Acid Sequence Disclosures—the Sequence Rules”) and are consistent with World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Standard ST.25 (1998) and the sequence listing requirements of the EPO and PCT (Rules 5.2 and 49.5(a-bis), and Section 208 and Annex C of the Administrative Instructions). The symbols and format used for nucleotide and amino acid sequence data comply with the rules set forth in 37 C.F.R. §1.822. 
 SEQ ID NOs:1-42 are ORFs encoding genes or proteins (or portions thereof), or plasmids, as identified in Table 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 1 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Summary Of Nucleic Acid And Protein SEQ ID Numbers 
 
 
 
 
   
 Nucleic 
 Protein 
 
 
   
 acid 
 SEQ ID 
 
 
 Description and Abbreviation 
 SEQ ID NO. 
 NO. 
 
 
   
 
 
   Yarrowia lipolytica  gene encoding a  mutant   
  1 
 — 
 
 
 acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) comprising a 
 (2987 bp) 
   
 
 
 W497L mutation (CDS corresponds to bases 146- 
   
   
 
 
 2556, with a 461 bp intron between bases 268- 
   
   
 
 
 732) 
   
   
 
 
   Euglena gracilis  Δ9 elongase (“EgD9e”) 
  3 
  4 
 
 
   
  (777 bp) 
 (258 AA) 
 
 
   Plasmid pZUF17   
  5 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8165 bp) 
   
 
 
 Plasmid  pDMW359   
  6 
 — 
 
 
   
 (7865 bp) 
   
 
 
   Gluconobacter oxydans  ddsA (GenBank ® 
 — 
  7 
 
 
 Accession No. BAA32241) 
   
 (315 AA) 
 
 
   Sulfitobacter  sp. ddsA (GenBank ® Accession 
 — 
  8 
 
 
 No. EAP81866) 
   
 (332 AA) 
 
 
   Silicibacter pomeroyi  ddsA (GenBank ®  
 — 
  9 
 
 
 Accession No. AAV93637) 
   
 (332 AA) 
 
 
   Oceanicola batsensis  ddsA (GenBank ®  
 — 
 10 
 
 
 Accession No. EAQ04419) 
   
 (331 AA) 
 
 
   Rhizobium leguminosarum  ddsA (GenBank ® 
 — 
 11 
 
 
 Accession No. CAK06434) 
   
 (338 AA) 
 
 
   Mesorhizobium loti  ddsA (GenBank ®  
 — 
 12 
 
 
 Accession No. BAB53531) 
   
 (338 AA) 
 
 
   Agrobacterium tumefaciens  str. C58 ddsA 
 — 
 13 
 
 
 (GenBank ® Accession No. AAL41650) 
   
 (338 AA) 
 
 
   Roseovarius  sp. ddsA (GenBank ® Accession  
 — 
 14 
 
 
 No. EAQ24568) 
   
 (333 AA) 
 
 
   Rhodopseudomonas palustris  ddsA  
 — 
 15 
 
 
 (GenBank ® Accession No. ABD89877) 
   
 (336 AA) 
 
 
   Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1 (GenBank Accession  
 — 
 16 
 
 
 No. XP_505040) 
   
 (397 AA) 
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  XP_505040   
 17 
 18 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and  
 (1168 bp) 
 (385 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. BAA32241  
   
   
 
 
 ( Gluconobacter oxydans  ddsA) 
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359-Ss_ddsA 
 19 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8231 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  XP_505040   
 20 
 21 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1153 bp) 
 (380 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. EAP81866 
   
   
 
 
 ( Sulfitobacter  sp. ddsA), codon-optimized for 
   
   
 
 
 expression in  Y. lipolytica   
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359- Sp_ddsA   
 22 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8231 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No. XP_505040 
 23 
 24 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1153 bp) 
 (380 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. AAV93637 
   
   
 
 
 ( Silicibacter pomeroyi  ddsA), codon-optimized 
   
   
 
 
 for expression in  Y. lipolytica   
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359- Ob_ddsA   
 25 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8228 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No. XP_505040 
 26 
 27 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1150 bp) 
 (379 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. EAQ04419 
   
   
 
 
 ( Oceanicola batsensis  ddsA), codon-optimized 
   
   
 
 
 for expression in  Y. lipolytica   
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359-RI_ddsA 
 28 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8249 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No. XP_505040 
 29 
 30 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1171 bp) 
 (386 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. CAK06434 
   
   
 
 
 ( Rhizobium leguminosarum  ddsA), codon- 
   
   
 
 
 optimized for expression in  Y. lipolytica   
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359-MI_ddsA 
 31 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8249 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No. XP_505040 
 32 
 33 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1171 bp) 
 (386 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. BAB53531 
   
   
 
 
 ( Mesorhizobium loti  ddsA), codon-optimized for 
   
   
 
 
 expression in  Y. lipolytica   
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359-At_ddsA 
 34 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8248 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No. XP_505040 
 35 
 36 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1170 bp) 
 (386 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. AAL41650 
   
   
 
 
 ( Agrobacterium   tumefaciens  str. C58 ddsA), 
   
   
 
 
 codon-optimized for expression in  Y. lipolytica   
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359-Rs_ddsA 
 37 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8234 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No. XP_505040 
 38 
 39 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1156 bp) 
 (381 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. EAQ24568 
   
   
 
 
 ( Roseovarius  sp. ddsA), codon-optimized for 
   
   
 
 
 expression in  Y. lipolytica   
   
   
 
 
 Plasmid pDMW359-Rp_ddsA 
 40 
 — 
 
 
   
 (8243 bp) 
   
 
 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No. XP_505040 
 41 
 42 
 
 
 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia lipolytica  ppt1) and 
 (1165 bp) 
 (384 AA) 
 
 
 GenBank ® Accession No. ABD89877 
   
   
 
 
 ( Rhodopseudomonas   palustris  ddsA), codon- 
   
   
 
 
 optimized for expression in  Y. lipolytica   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 Described herein is a recombinant oleaginous yeast production host for the production of coenzyme Q 10  [“CoQ 10 ”] and at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid, wherein said host comprises at least one copy of a ddsA gene encoding a decaprenyl diphosphate synthase, wherein expression of said decaprenyl diphosphate synthase enzyme results in the production of CoQ 10 . The recombinant oleaginous yeast production host can optionally also produce at least one C 40  carotenoid. 
 In all of the above aspects, a recombinant oleaginous yeast is used as the production platform. In a preferred aspect, the oleaginous yeast host cell is  Yarrowia lipolytica.    
 DEFINITIONS 
 In this disclosure, a number of terms and abbreviations are used. The following definitions are provided. 
 “Coenzyme Q” is abbreviated “CoQ”. 
 “Open reading frame” is abbreviated “ORF”. 
 “Polymerase chain reaction” is abbreviated “PCR”. 
 “American Type Culture Collection” is abbreviated “ATCC”. 
 “Polyunsaturated fatty acid(s)” is abbreviated “PUFA(s)”. 
 “Triacylglycerols” are abbreviated “TAGs”. 
 The term “invention” or “present invention” as used herein is not meant to be limiting but applies generally to any of the inventions defined in the claims or described herein. 
 As used herein, the term “comprising” means the presence of the stated features, integers, steps, or components as referred to in the claims, but it does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof. 
 As used herein, the term “about” modifying the quantity of an ingredient or reactant of the invention employed refers to variation in the numerical quantity that can occur, for example, through: typical measuring and liquid handling procedures used for making concentrates or use solutions in the real world; inadvertent error in these procedures; differences in the manufacture, source, or purity of the ingredients employed to make the compositions or carry out the methods; and the like. The term “about” also encompasses amounts that differ due to different equilibrium conditions for a composition resulting from a particular initial mixture. Whether or not modified by the term “about”, the claims include equivalents to the quantities. In one aspect, the term “about” means within 20% of the recited numerical value, preferably within 10%, and most preferably within 5%. 
 As used herein, “coenzyme Q”, “CoQ” and “ubiquinone” will be used interchangeably and will refer to lipophillic redox-active molecules comprised of a redox-active quinone structure (CAS Registry No. 1339-63-5). In its reduced state, CoQ acts as an antioxidant; in its oxidized state, it can undergo a redox cycle in the presence of an electron donor and oxygen such that the electron donor is oxidized, the oxygen is reduced and the CoQ is available to undergo another redox cycle. The compound occurs in the majority of aerobic organisms, from bacteria to higher plants and animals. 
 The term coenzyme Q 10  [“CoQ 10 ”] refers to 2,3-dimethoxy-dimethyl-6-decaprenyl-1,4-benzoquinone, also known as ubiquinone-10 (CAS Registry No. 303-98-0). This coenzyme has a hydrocarbon tail that is 50 carbon atoms in length, comprised of ten 5-carbon isoprene units. Synthesis of CoQ 10  requires a prenyl diphosphate synthase, known as decaprenyl diphosphate [“DPP” or “DecPP”] synthase. 
 The terms, “prenyl diphosphate synthase”, “prenyl diphosphate synthetase” and “prenyltransferase” are used interchangeably herein. Each is a general term for those enzymes which catalyze a condensation reaction that polymerizes prenyl diphosphate (an allylic primer) and 3-isopentenyl diphosphate [“IPP”] to produce polyprenyl diphosphate. This class of genes is divided into 2 types, based on whether the condensation reaction of IPP is cis- [or (Z)-chain] elongation or trans- [or (E)-chain] elongation. Further, the maximum length of the isoprene chain which each prenyl diphosphate synthase can produce is fixed. Since the hydrophobic property of a product varies depending on the isoprene chain length of the product, there is great difference in the mode of requirement for the activity of enzymes. When bacterial enzymes are compared in terms of the mode of requirement, prenyl diphosphate synthases are classified into the following four groups: 1) Prenyl diphosphate synthase I comprising E type, short chain prenyl diphosphate synthases such as geranyl diphosphate synthase (“GPP”; catalyzing a C 5 →C 10  reaction), farnesyl diphosphate synthase (“FPP”; catalyzing a C 5 →C 15  reaction) and geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase (“GGPP”; catalyzing a C 5 →C 20  reaction); 2) Prenyl diphosphate synthase II comprising E type, medium chain prenyl diphosphate synthases such as hexaprenyl diphosphate synthase (“HexPP”; catalyzing a C 15 →C 30  reaction) and heptaprenyl diphosphate synthase (“HepPP”; catalyzing a C 15 →C 35  reaction); 3) Prenyl diphosphate synthase III comprising E type, long chain prenyl diphosphate synthases such as octaprenyl diphosphate synthase (“OctPP”; catalyzing a C 15 →C 40  reaction), solanesyl [or nonaprenyl] diphosphate synthase (“SPP” or “NonPP”; catalyzing a C 15 →C 45  reaction) and decaprenyl diphosphate synthase (“DecPP”; catalyzing a C 15 →C 50  reaction); and 4) Prenyl diphosphate synthase IV comprising Z type, long chain prenyl diphosphate synthases such as Z-nonaprenyl diphosphate synthase (catalyzing a C 15 →C 45  reaction), undecaprenyl diphosphate synthase (“UPP”; catalyzing a C 15 →C 55  reaction) and dehydrodolichyl diphosphate synthase (“deDoIPP”; catalyzing a C 15 →C 85-105  reaction) (reviewed in Szkopińska, A.,  Acta Biochimica Polonica,  47(2):469-480 (2000)). Of particular interest in the application herein are Group III long chain prenyl diphosphate synthases, particularly solanesyl and decaprenyl diphosphate synthases. 
 “Lipid bodies” refer to lipid droplets that are bound by a monolayer of phospholipid and, usually, by specific proteins. These organelles are sites where most organisms transport/store neutral lipids. Lipid bodies are thought to arise from microdomains of the endoplasmic reticulum that contain triacylglycerol [“TAG”] biosynthesis enzymes. Their synthesis and size appear to be controlled by specific protein components. 
 “Neutral lipids” refer to those lipids commonly found in cells in lipid bodies as storage fats and oils and are so called because at cellular pH, the lipids bear no charged groups. Generally, they are completely non-polar with no affinity for water. Neutral lipids generally refer to mono-, di-, and/or triesters of glycerol with fatty acids, also called monoacylglycerol, diacylglycerol or triacylglycerol, respectively, or collectively, acylglycerols. A hydrolysis reaction must occur to release free fatty acids from acylglycerols. 
 The terms “triacylglycerols” [“TAGs”] and “oil” are interchangeable and refer to neutral lipids composed of three fatty acyl residues esterified to a glycerol molecule. TAGs can contain long chain PUFAs, as well as shorter saturated and unsaturated fatty acids and longer chain saturated fatty acids. The TAG fraction of cells is also referred to as the “oil fraction”, and “oil biosynthesis” generically refers to the synthesis of TAGs in the cell. The oil or TAG fraction is a sub-fraction of the total lipid fraction, although also it constitutes a major part of the total lipid content, measured as the weight of total fatty acids in the cell as a percent of the DCW, in oleaginous organisms. The fatty acid composition in the oil [“TAG”] fraction and the fatty acid composition of the total lipid fraction are generally similar. Thus, an increase or decrease in the concentration of PUFAs in the total lipid fraction will correspond with an increase or decrease in the concentration of PUFAs in the oil [“TAG”] fraction, and vice versa. 
 As used herein, the term “biomass” refers specifically to recombinant yeast cellular material from the fermentation of an oleaginous yeast. The biomass may be in the form of whole cells, whole cell lysates, homogenized cells, partially hydrolyzed cellular material, and/or partially purified cellular material (e.g., microbially produced oil). Preferably, the fermentation utilizes a recombinant oleaginous yeast producing CoQ 10  and at least one PUFA (and optionally at least one one C 40  carotenoid). 
 The term “oleaginous” refers to those organisms that tend to store their energy source in the form of lipid (Weete, In: Fungal Lipid Biochemistry, 2 nd  Ed., Plenum, 1980). Generally, the cellular oil content of these microorganisms follows a sigmoid curve, wherein the concentration of lipid increases until it reaches a maximum at the late logarithmic or early stationary growth phase and then gradually decreases during the late stationary and death phases (Yongmanitchai and Ward,  Appl. Environ. Microbiol.,  57:419-25 (1991)). 
 The term “oleaginous yeast” refers to those microorganisms classified as yeasts that can make oil, in excess of about 25% of their DCW as oil. Examples of oleaginous yeast include, but are no means limited to, the following genera:  Yarrowia, Candida, Rhodotorula, Rhodosporidium, Cryptococcus, Trichosporon  and  Lipomyces.    
 The term “fermentable carbon source” means a carbon source that a microorganism will metabolize to derive energy. Typical carbon sources include, but are not limited to: monosaccharides, oligosaccharides, polysaccharides, alkanes, fatty acids, esters of fatty acids, monoglycerides, diglycerides, triglycerides, carbon dioxide, methanol, formaldehyde, formate and carbon-containing amines. 
 As used herein, an “isolated nucleic acid fragment” or “genetic construct” is a polymer of RNA or DNA that is single- or double-stranded, optionally containing synthetic, non-natural or altered nucleotide bases. An isolated nucleic acid fragment in the form of a polymer of DNA may be comprised of one or more segments of cDNA, genomic DNA or synthetic DNA. 
 The term “complementary” is used to describe the relationship between nucleotide bases that are capable of hybridizing to one another. For example, with respect to DNA, adenosine is complementary to thymine and cytosine is complementary to guanine. 
 “Codon degeneracy” refers to the nature in the genetic code permitting variation of the nucleotide sequence without effecting the amino acid sequence of an encoded polypeptide. The skilled artisan is well aware of the “codon-bias” exhibited by a specific host cell in usage of nucleotide codons to specify a given amino acid. Therefore, when synthesizing a gene for improved expression in a host cell, it is desirable to design the gene such that its frequency of codon usage approaches the frequency of preferred codon usage of the host cell. 
 “Synthetic genes” can be assembled from oligonucleotide building blocks that are chemically synthesized using procedures known to those skilled in the art. These building blocks are ligated and annealed to form gene segments that are then enzymatically assembled to construct the entire gene. Accordingly, the genes can be tailored for optimal gene expression based on optimization of nucleotide sequence to reflect the codon bias of the host cell. The skilled artisan appreciates the likelihood of successful gene expression if codon usage is biased towards those codons favored by the host. Determination of preferred codons can be based on a survey of genes derived from the host cell, where sequence information is available. For example, the codon usage profile for  Yarrowia lipolytica  is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 7,125,672. 
 “Gene” refers to a nucleic acid fragment that expresses a specific protein, and that may refer to the coding region alone or may include regulatory sequences preceding (5′ non-coding sequences) and following (3′ non-coding sequences) the coding sequence. “Native gene” refers to a gene as found in nature with its own regulatory sequences. “Chimeric gene” refers to any gene that is not a native gene, comprising regulatory and coding sequences that are not found together in nature. Accordingly, a chimeric gene may comprise regulatory sequences and coding sequences that are derived from different sources, or regulatory sequences and coding sequences derived from the same source, but arranged in a manner different than that found in nature. “Endogenous gene” refers to a native gene in its natural location in the genome of an organism. A “foreign” gene refers to a gene that is introduced into the host organism by gene transfer. Foreign genes can comprise native genes inserted into a non-native organism, native genes introduced into a new location within the native host, or chimeric genes. A “transgene” is a gene that has been introduced into the genome by a transformation procedure. A “codon-optimized gene” is a gene having its frequency of codon usage designed to mimic the frequency of preferred codon usage of the host cell. 
 “Coding sequence” refers to a DNA sequence that codes for a specific amino acid sequence. “Suitable regulatory sequences” refer to nucleotide sequences located upstream (5′ non-coding sequences), within, or downstream (3′ non-coding sequences) of a coding sequence, and which influence the transcription, RNA processing or stability, or translation of the associated coding sequence. Regulatory sequences may include promoters, translation leader sequences, introns, polyadenylation recognition sequences, RNA processing sites, effector binding sites and stem-loop structures. 
 “Promoter” refers to a DNA sequence capable of controlling the expression of a coding sequence or functional RNA. In general, a coding sequence is located 3′ to a promoter sequence. Promoters may be derived in their entirety from a native gene, or be composed of different elements derived from different promoters found in nature, or even comprise synthetic DNA segments. It is understood by those skilled in the art that different promoters may direct the expression of a gene in different tissues or cell types, or at different stages of development, or in response to different environmental or physiological conditions. Promoters that cause a gene to be expressed in most cell types at most times are commonly referred to as “constitutive promoters”. It is further recognized that since in most cases the exact boundaries of regulatory sequences have not been completely defined, DNA fragments of different lengths may have identical promoter activity. 
 The terms “3′ non-coding sequences” and “transcription terminator” refer to DNA sequences located downstream of a coding sequence. This includes polyadenylation recognition sequences and other sequences encoding regulatory signals capable of affecting mRNA processing or gene expression. The polyadenylation signal is usually characterized by affecting the addition of polyadenylic acid tracts to the 3′ end of the mRNA precursor. The 3′ region can influence the transcription, RNA processing or stability, or translation of the associated coding sequence. 
 “RNA transcript” refers to the product resulting from RNA polymerase-catalyzed transcription of a DNA sequence. When the RNA transcript is a perfect complementary copy of the DNA sequence, it is referred to as the primary transcript or it may be a RNA sequence derived from post-transcriptional processing of the primary transcript and is referred to as the mature RNA. “Messenger RNA” or “mRNA” refers to the RNA that is without introns and that can be translated into protein by the cell. “cDNA” refers to a double-stranded DNA that is complementary to, and derived from, mRNA. “Sense” RNA refers to RNA transcript that includes the mRNA and so can be translated into protein by the cell. “Antisense RNA” refers to a RNA transcript that is complementary to all or part of a target primary transcript or mRNA and that blocks the expression of a target gene (U.S. Pat. No. 5,107,065; Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 99/28508). The complementarity of an antisense RNA may be with any part of the specific gene transcript, i.e., at the 5′ non-coding sequence, 3′ non-coding sequence, or the coding sequence. “Functional RNA” refers to antisense RNA, ribozyme RNA, or other RNA that is not translated and yet has an effect on cellular processes. 
 The term “operably linked” refers to the association of nucleic acid sequences on a single nucleic acid fragment so that the function of one is affected by the other. For example, a promoter is operably linked with a coding sequence when it is capable of affecting the expression of that coding sequence (i.e., the coding sequence is under the transcriptional control of the promoter). Coding sequences can be operably linked to regulatory sequences in sense or antisense orientation. 
 The term “expression”, as used herein, refers to the transcription and stable accumulation of sense (mRNA) or antisense RNA derived from nucleic acid fragments. Expression may also refer to translation of mRNA into a polypeptide. 
 “Mature” protein refers to a post-translationally processed polypeptide, i.e., one from which any pre- or propeptides present in the primary translation product have been removed. “Precursor” protein refers to the primary product of translation of mRNA, i.e., with pre- and propeptides still present. Pre- and propeptides may be (but are not limited to) intracellular localization signals. 
 The term “recombinase” refers to an enzyme(s) that carries out site-specific recombination to alter the DNA structure and includes transposases, lambda integration/excision enzymes, as well as site-specific recombinases. 
 “Recombinase site” or “site-specific recombinase sequence” means a DNA sequence that a recombinase will recognize and bind to. It will be appreciated that this may be a wild type or mutant recombinase site, as long as functionality is maintained and the recombinase enzyme may still recognize the site, bind to the DNA sequence, and catalyze recombination between two adjacent recombinase sites. 
 “Transformation” refers to the transfer of a nucleic acid molecule into a host organism, resulting in genetically stable inheritance. The nucleic acid molecule may be a plasmid that replicates autonomously, for example, or, it may integrate into the genome of the host organism. Host organisms containing the transformed nucleic acid fragments are referred to as “transgenic” or “recombinant” or “transformed” organisms. 
 The terms “plasmid” and “vector” refer to an extra chromosomal element often carrying genes that are not part of the central metabolism of the cell, and usually in the form of circular double-stranded DNA fragments. Such elements may be autonomously replicating sequences, genome integrating sequences, phage or nucleotide sequences, linear or circular, of a single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA, derived from any source, in which a number of nucleotide sequences have been joined or recombined into a unique construction which is capable of introducing an expression cassette(s) into a cell. 
 The term “expression cassette” refers to a fragment of DNA comprising the coding sequence of a selected gene and regulatory sequences preceding (5′ non-coding sequences) and following (3′ non-coding sequences) the coding sequence that are required for expression of the selected gene product. Thus, an expression cassette is typically composed of: 1) a promoter sequence; 2) a coding sequence (i.e., ORF); and, 3) a 3′ untranslated region (i.e., a terminator) that, in eukaryotes, usually contains a polyadenylation site. The expression cassette(s) is usually included within a vector, to facilitate cloning and transformation. Different expression cassettes can be transformed into different organisms including bacteria, yeast, plants and mammalian cells, as long as the correct regulatory sequences are used for each host. 
 The term “homologous recombination” refers to the exchange of DNA fragments between two DNA molecules (during cross over). The fragments that are exchanged are flanked by sites of identical nucleotide sequences between the two DNA molecules (i.e., “regions of homology”). The term “regions of homology” refer to stretches of nucleotide sequence on nucleic acid fragments that participate in homologous recombination that have homology to each other. Effective homologous recombination will generally take place where these regions of homology are at least about 10 bp in length, where at least about 50 bp in length is preferred. Typically fragments that are intended for recombination contain at least two regions of homology where targeted gene disruption or replacement is desired. 
 As used herein, the term “chromosomal integration” means that a chromosomal integration vector becomes congruent with the chromosome of a microorganism through recombination between homologous DNA regions on the chromosomal integration vector and within the chromosome. Many of the modifications to the oleaginous yeast  Yarrowia lipolytica  were introduced by chromosomal integration. 
 As used herein, the term “chromosomal integration vector” means an extra-chromosomal vector that is capable of integrating into the host's genome through homologous recombination. 
 A “substantial portion” of an amino acid or nucleotide sequence is that portion comprising enough of the amino acid sequence of a polypeptide or the nucleotide sequence of a gene to putatively identify that polypeptide or gene, either by manual evaluation of the sequence by one skilled in the art, or by computer-automated sequence comparison and identification using algorithms such as BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool; Altschul, S. F., et al.,  J. Mol. Biol.,  215:403-410 (1993)). In general, a sequence of ten or more contiguous amino acids or thirty or more nucleotides is necessary in order to identify putatively a polypeptide or nucleic acid sequence as homologous to a known protein or gene. Moreover, with respect to nucleotide sequences, gene-specific oligonucleotide probes comprising 20-30 contiguous nucleotides may be used in sequence-dependent methods of gene identification (e.g., Southern hybridization) and isolation (e.g., in situ hybridization of bacterial colonies or bacteriophage plaques). In addition, short oligonucleotides of 12-15 bases may be used as amplification primers in PCR in order to obtain a particular nucleic acid fragment comprising the primers. Accordingly, a “substantial portion” of a nucleotide sequence comprises enough of the sequence to specifically identify and/or isolate a nucleic acid fragment comprising the sequence. 
 As used herein, “substantially similar” enzymes will refer to enzymes belonging to a family of proteins in the art known to share similar structures and function. It is well within the skill of one in the art to identify substantially similar proteins given a known structure. Typical methods to identify substantially similar structures will rely upon known sequence information (nucleotide sequence and/or amino acid sequences) and may include PCR amplification, nucleic acid hybridization, and/or sequence identity/similarity analysis (e.g., sequence alignments between partial and/or complete sequences and/or known functional motifs associated with the desired activity). 
 A nucleic acid molecule is “hybridizable” to another nucleic acid molecule, such as a cDNA, genomic DNA, or RNA molecule, when a single-stranded form of the nucleic acid molecule can anneal to the other nucleic acid molecule under the appropriate conditions of temperature and solution ionic strength. Given the nucleic acid sequences described herein, one of skill in the art can identify substantially similar nucleic acid fragments that may encode proteins having similar activity. Hybridization and washing conditions are well known and exemplified in Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T.  Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,  3 rd  ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001), particularly Chapter 11 and Table 11.1 therein. The conditions of temperature and ionic strength determine the “stringency” of the hybridization. Stringency conditions can be adjusted to screen for moderately similar fragments (such as homologous sequences from distantly related organisms), to highly similar fragments (such as genes that duplicate functional enzymes from closely related organisms). Post-hybridization washes determine stringency conditions. One set of preferred conditions uses a series of washes starting with 6×SSC, 0.5% SDS at room temperature for 15 min, then repeated with 2×SSC, 0.5% SDS at 45° C. for 30 min, and then repeated twice with 0.2×SSC, 0.5% SDS at 50° C. for 30 min. A more preferred set of stringent conditions uses higher temperatures in which the washes are identical to those above except for the temperature of the final two 30 min washes in 0.2×SSC, 0.5% SDS was increased to 60° C. Another preferred set of highly stringent conditions uses two final washes in 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65° C. An additional set of stringent conditions include hybridization at 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washes with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65° C. followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65° C., for example. 
 In one aspect, suitable nucleic acid fragments encode polypeptides that are at least about 70% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In another aspect, the nucleic acid fragments encode amino acid sequences that are about 85-90% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. In a further aspect, the nucleic acid fragments encode amino acid sequences that are at least about 90-100% identical to the amino acid sequences reported herein. Suitable nucleic acid fragments not only have the above homologies but typically encode a polypeptide having at least about 50 amino acids, preferably at least about 100 amino acids, more preferably at least about 150 amino acids, still more preferably at least about 200 amino acids, and most preferably at least about 250 amino acids. 
 The term “sequence analysis software” refers to any computer algorithm or software program that is useful for the analysis of nucleotide or amino acid sequences. “Sequence analysis software” may be commercially available or independently developed. Typical sequence analysis software will include, but is not limited to: 1) the GCG suite of programs (Wisconsin Package Version 9.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, Wis.); 2) BLASTP, BLASTN, BLASTX (Altschul et al.,  J Mol. Biol.,  215:403-410 (1990)); 3) DNASTAR (DNASTAR, Inc. Madison, Wis.); 4) Sequencher (Gene Codes Corporation, Ann Arbor, Mich.); and, 5) the FASTA program incorporating the Smith-Waterman algorithm (W. R. Pearson,  Comput. Methods Genome Res ., [Proc. Int. Symp.] (1994), Meeting Date 1992, 111-20. Editor(s): Suhai, Sandor. Plenum: New York, N.Y.). Within the context of this application it will be understood that where sequence analysis software is used for analysis, that the results of the analysis will be based on the “default values” of the program referenced, unless otherwise specified. As used herein, “default values” will mean any set of values or parameters (as set by the software manufacturer) which originally load with the software when first initialized. 
 Standard recombinant DNA and molecular cloning techniques used herein are well known in the art and are described by Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T.,  Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,  3 rd  ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001) (hereinafter “Maniatis”); by Silhavy, T. J., Bennan, M. L. and Enquist, L. W.,  Experiments with Gene Fusions , Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1984); and by Ausubel, F. M. et al.,  Current Protocols in Molecular Biology , published by Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken, N.J. (1987). 
 Microbial Hosts for CoQ 10  and PUFA Production: Oleaginous Yeasts 
 Oleaginous organisms are those organisms that tend to store their energy source in the form of lipid (Weete, In: Fungal Lipid Biochemistry, 2 nd  Ed., Plenum, 1980). Oleaginous yeast can accumulate in excess of about 25% of their DCW as oil, more preferably greater than about 30% of the cellular dry weight, and most preferably greater than about 40% of the cellular dry weight under oleaginous conditions. Examples of oleaginous yeast include, but are no means limited to, the following genera:  Yarrowia, Candida, Rhodotorula, Rhodosporidium, Cryptococcus, Trichosporon  and  Lipomyces . More specifically, illustrative oil-synthesizing yeasts include:  Rhodosporidium toruloides, Liopmyces starkeyii, L. lipoferus, Candida revkaufi, C. pulcherrima, C. tropicalis, C. utilis, Trichosporon pullans, T. cutaneum, Rhodotorula glutinus, R. graminis  and  Yarrowia lipolytica  (formerly classified as  Candida lipolytica ). The technology for growing oleaginous yeast with high oil content is well developed (for example, see  EP  0 005 277B1; Ratledge, C.,  Prog. Ind. Microbiol.,  16:119-206 (1982)). These organisms have been commercially used for a variety of purposes in the past. 
 Of those organisms classified as oleaginous yeast,  Yarrowia lipolytica  was selected as a preferred microbial host for the purposes herein. This selection was based on: 1) confirmation that the organism naturally produces high levels (at least about 2000 ppm) of the natural antioxidant CoQ 9 ; and, 2) previous genetic engineering by the Applicants' Assignee resulting in significant production of various ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs and proof-of-concept production of various carotenoids (details infra). The  Y. lipolytica  strains designated as  ATCC # 20362, ATCC #8862, ATCC #18944, ATCC #76982 and/or LGAM S(7)1 (Papanikolaou S., and Aggelis G.,  Bioresour. Technol.  82(1):43-9 (2002)) are preferred wildtype hosts, due to preliminary studies targeted toward identification of wildtype strains having high lipid content (measured as a percent dry weight) and high volumetric productivity (measured as g/L h −1 ). 
 The CoQ Biosynthetic Pathway 
 A metabolic pathway, or biosynthetic pathway, in a biochemical sense, can be regarded as a series of chemical reactions occurring in order within a cell, catalyzed by enzymes, to achieve either the formation of a metabolic product to be used or stored by the cell, or the initiation of another metabolic pathway (then called a flux generating step). Many of these pathways are elaborate, and involve a step by step modification of the initial substance to shape it into a product having the exact chemical structure desired. 
 The biochemical reactions that lead to production of the quinones of the coenzyme Q series (i.e., Q 6 , Q 7 , Q 8 , Q 9  and Q 10 ) are well-described in the minireview of R. Meganathan ( FEMS Microbiol. Lett.,  203:131-139 (2001)) for  Escherichia coli  and  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  and are summarized in  FIGS. 1A and 1B  herein. In brief, the quinonoid nucleus is derived from the shikimate pathway via chorismate or tyrosine. Formation of 4-hydroxybenzoate is the first committed step in the biosynthesis of CoQ. This molecule then undergoes prenylation, wherein the polyprenyl side chain of the final CoQ enzyme is added. 
 Prenylation: 
 The polyprenyl side chain itself is formed via the mevalonate pathway, which results in the formation of the C 5  isoprene subunit, isopentenyl pyrophosphate [“IPP”] from the starting precursor, acetyl-CoA. More specifically, two molecules of acetyl-CoA are condensed by thiolase to yield acetoacetyl-CoA, which is subsequently converted to 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA [“HMG-CoA”] by the action of 3-hydroxymethyl-3-glutaryl-CoA synthase [“HMG-CoA synthase”]. Next, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase [“HMG-CoA reductase”), the rate controlling step in the mevalonate pathway, converts HMG-CoA to mevalonate, to which two molecules of phosphate residues are then added by the action of two kinases (i.e., mevalonate kinase and phosphomevalonate kinase, respectively). Mevalonate pyrophosphate is then decarboxylated by the action of mevalonate pyrophosphate decarboxylase to yield IPP, which becomes the building unit for a wide variety of isoprene molecules necessary in living organisms. 
 IPP is isomerized to dimethylaryl pyrophosphate [“DMAPP”] by the action of isopentenyl pyrophosphate isomerase [“IPP isomerase”]. IPP and DMAPP are then converted to the C 10  unit geranyl pyrophosphate [“GPP”] by a head-to-tail condensation. In a similar condensation reaction between GPP and IPP, GPP is converted to the C 15  unit farnesyl pyrophosphate [“FPP”]. The biosynthesis of GPP and FPP from IPP and DMAPP is catalyzed by the enzyme FPP synthase. The product then reacts with a polyprenyl phosphate synthase, to produce the final polyprenyl side chain having from 30-50 carbon atoms, corresponding to 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 isoprenoid units in the side chain. The precise length of the polyprenyl side chain present in a particular organism is constant and is determined by the nature of the polyprenyl phosphate synthase. For example, a hexaprenyl diphosphate synthase leads to synthesis of CoQ 6 , while an octaprenyl diphosphate synthase leads to synthesis of CoQ 8 , a solanesyl diphosphate synthase leads to synthesis of CoQ 9 , and a decaprenyl diphosphate synthase leads to synthesis of CoQ 10 . Studies summarized in Meganathan (supra) have demonstrated that mutant bacteria and yeast expressing a non-native polyprenyl phosphate synthase that results in a side chain of different length than in the parent do not affect the mutant strain. 
 Subsequent Ring Modifications: 
 Prenylation results in the formation of 3-polyprenyl-4-hydroxybenzoate. This molecule then undergoes multiple ring modifications, including hydroxylation, methylation, decarboxylation, to result in formation of ubiquinol, which is non-enzymatically converted to ubiquinone [“CoQ”]. 
 The genes required for CoQ biosynthesis in  Yarrowia lipolytica  have not been extensively characterized, since the wildtype oleaginous yeast contains all of the genes required for CoQ 9  production and thus only requires a single additional gene to enable biosynthesis of CoQ 10 . However, based on the complete sequencing of the entire genome (Dujon, B. et al.,  Nature,  430 (6995):35-44 (2004)) and the public  Y. lipolytica  protein database of the “Yeast project Genolevures” (Center for Bioinformatics, LaBRI, Talence Cedex, France), one skilled in the art would readily be able to identify homologous genes corresponding to the ubiC, ubiA, ubiD, ubiX, ubiB, ubiG, ubiH, ubiE and ubiF genes of  Escherichia coli  and/or the coq2, coq3, coq6, coq5 and coq7 genes of  Saccharomyces cerevisiae , which are known to catalyze the reactions diagrammed in  FIGS. 1A and 1B . Similarly, the initial and intermediate genes of the mevalonate pathway responsible for the biosynthesis of the polyprenyl side chain of CoQ 9  should also easily be identified, up to and including FPP synthase. The last gene required for synthesis of the polyprenyl side chain of  Yarrowia lipolytica 's CoQ 9  is a solanesyl diphosphate synthase, which has not yet been identified or characterized. 
 One of skill in the art would recognize, for example, that any previously identified genes of the CoQ biosynthetic pathway, e.g., those from  E. coli  and/or  S. cerevisiae , or portions thereof may be used to search for homologs in  Yarrowia lipolytica  using sequence analysis software. In general, such computer software matches similar sequences by assigning degrees of homology to various substitutions, deletions and other modifications. Alternatively, any of the previously identified sequences or portions thereof may also be employed as hybridization reagents for the identification of  Y. lipolytica  CoQ homologs. Hybridization methods are well defined and will not be reiterated herein. Alternately, isolation of homologous genes using sequence-dependent protocols is well known in the art. Examples of sequence-dependent protocols include, but are not limited to: 1) methods of nucleic acid hybridization; 2) methods of DNA and RNA amplification, as exemplified by various uses of nucleic acid amplification technologies [e.g., polymerase chain reaction [“PCR”], Mullis et al., U.S. Pat. No. 4,683,202; ligase chain reaction [“LCR”], Tabor, S. et al.,  Proc. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.,  82:1074 (1985); or strand displacement amplification [“SDA”], Walker, et al.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.,  89:392 (1992)]; and 3) methods of library construction and screening by complementation. This would enable direct isolation of any of the genes from  Yarrowia lipolytica  that are involved in the organism's native CoQ biosynthetic pathway, based on previously identified genes of the CoQ biosynthetic pathway from related organisms, such as those from  E. coli  and/or  S. cerevisiae.    
 Genetic engineering of a strain of  Yarrowia lipolytica  that is capable of CoQ 10  production requires the expression of a heterologous decaprenyl diphosphate synthase, encoded by a ddsA gene. Although the decaprenyl diphosphate synthase of  Gluconobacter oxydans  is most well-characterized (Okada, K., et al.,  Eur. J. Biochem.,  255(1):52-59 (1998); see also GenBank® Accession No. BAA32241), several ddsA genes have been identified from other organisms that have the putative ability to synthesize CoQ 10  based on homology searches. These genes have been identified in  Sulfitobacter  sp. NAS-14.1 (GenBank® Accession No. EAP81866),  Silicibacter pomeroyi  DSS-3 (GenBank® Accession No. AAV93637),  Paracoccus denitrificans  (U.S. Pat. No. 6,225,097),  Paracoccus zeaxanthinifaciens  (GenBank® Accession No. AJ431695),  Rhodobacter capsulatus  (GenBank® Accession No. DQ1 91802; U.S. Pat. No. 6,103,488),  Oceanicola batsensis  HTCC2597 (GenBank® Accession No. EAQ04419),  Schizosaccharomyces pombe  (Suzuki et al.,  J. Biochem.,  121(3):496-505 (1997)),  Agrobacterium tumerifaciens  (GenBank® Accession No. DQ865262) and  Sinorhizobium meliloti  (GenBank® Accession No. DQ241792), for example. This, of course, is not intended to be limiting, as numerous other ddsA genes could be identified, isolated and expressed in an oleaginous yeast, such as  Yarrowia lipolytica , according to the methods provided herein. 
 Amino acid sequence comparisons of various E-polyprenyl diphosphate synthases have revealed the presence of seven highly conserved regions, including 2 aspartate-rich domains (i.e., Domain II and Domain VI), which are thought to be the binding sites for the diphosphate moieties for IPP and allylic substrates (Koyama, T.,  J. Biochem  (Tokyo), 113(3):355-363 (1993); Chen, A. et al.,  Protein Science,  3:600-607 (1994)). One skilled in the art would readily be able to use these conserved regions or portions thereof to search for homologs having decaprenyl diphosphate synthase activity in any organism having the ability to produce CoQ 10 . As described previously, means for the identification of these homologs could include sequence analysis software, hybridization methods, nucleic acid amplification technologies and/or methods of library construction and screening by complementation. 
 Upon identification of an appropriate heterologous decaprenyl diphosphate synthase, construction of a suitable expression vector, and transformation into an oleaginous yeast, it is expected that the transformant host organism expressing the ddsA gene will produce CoQ 10 . It is well known that CoQ compounds are insoluble in water and therefore, within the cell, they partition into the cell membrane, simplifying purification. As such, the CoQ 10  would be expected to remain in the hydrophobic/lipophillic portions of the biomass during processing (i.e., in the microbially produced oil). 
 Production of PUFAs in Oleaginous Yeast 
 A variety of different hosts including plants, algae, fungi and yeast are being investigated as means for commercial PUFA production. Genetic engineering has demonstrated that the natural abilities of some hosts, even those natively limited to LA and ALA fatty acid production, can be substantially altered to result in high-level production of various long-chain ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs ( FIGS. 2A and 2B ). Particularly relevant herein, the Applicants' Assignee has recently explored the utility of oleaginous yeast, and specifically,  Yarrowia lipolytica  (formerly classified as  Candida lipolytica ), as a preferred class of microorganisms for production of PUFAs. Despite a natural deficiency in the production of ω-6/ω-3 fatty acids in these organisms (since naturally produced PUFAs are limited to 18:2 fatty acids (and less commonly, 18:3 fatty acids)), high production of GLA, ARA, EPA and DHA relative to the total fatty acids in  Y. lipolytica  has been reported (U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/198,975, Ser. No. 11/265,761, Ser. No. 11/264,784 and Ser. No. 11/264,737, corresponding to Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/033723, WO 2006/052870, WO 2006/055322 and WO 2006/052871). 
 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid Definitions and Biosynthetic Pathway 
 The term “fatty acids” refers to long chain aliphatic acids (alkanoic acids) of varying chain lengths, from about C 12  to C 22  (although both longer and shorter chain-length acids are known). The predominant chain lengths are between C 16  and C 22 . The structure of a fatty acid is represented by a simple notation system of “X:Y”, where X is the total number of carbon [“C”] atoms in the particular fatty acid and Y is the number of double bonds. Additional details concerning the differentiation between “saturated fatty acids” versus “unsaturated fatty acids”, “monounsaturated fatty acids” versus “polyunsaturated fatty acids” [“PUFAs”], and “omega-6 fatty acids” [“ω-6” or “n-6”] versus “omega-3 fatty acids” [“ω-3” or “n-3”] are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. 
 Nomenclature used to describe PUFAs is shown below in Table 2. In the column titled “Shorthand Notation”, the omega-reference system is used to indicate the number of carbons, the number of double bonds and the position of the double bond closest to the omega carbon, counting from the omega carbon (which is numbered 1 for this purpose). The remainder of the Table summarizes the common names of ω-3 and ω-6 fatty acids and their precursors, the abbreviations that will be used throughout the specification and the chemical name of each compound. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Nomenclature of Various PUFAs And Precursors 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 Shorthand 
 
 
 Common Name 
 Abbreviation 
 Chemical Name 
 Notation 
 
 
   
 
 
 Myristic 
 — 
 tetradecanoic 
 14:0 
 
 
 Palmitic 
 Palmitate 
 hexadecanoic 
 16:0 
 
 
 Palmitoleic 
 — 
 9-hexadecenoic 
 16:1 
 
 
 Stearic 
 — 
 octadecanoic 
 18:0 
 
 
 Oleic 
 — 
 cis-9-octadecenoic 
 18:1 
 
 
 Linoleic 
 LA 
 cis-9,12-octadecadienoic 
 18:2 □-6 
 
 
 γ-Linolenic 
 GLA 
 cis-6,9,12- 
 18:3 □-6 
 
 
   
   
 octadecatrienoic 
   
 
 
 Eicosadienoic 
 EDA 
 cis-11,14-eicosadienoic 
 20:2 □-6 
 
 
 Dihomo-γ 
 DGLA 
 cis-8,11,14- 
 20:3-□6 
 
 
 Linolenic 
   
 eicosatrienoic 
   
 
 
 Arachidonic 
 ARA 
 cis-5,8,11,14- 
 20:4 {tilde over (□)}6 
 
 
   
   
 eicosatetraenoic 
   
 
 
 α-Linolenic 
 ALA 
 cis-9,12,15- 
 18:3 □-3 
 
 
   
   
 octadecatrienoic 
   
 
 
 Stearidonic 
 STA 
 cis-6,9,12,15- 
 18:4 □-3 
 
 
   
   
 octadecatetraenoic 
   
 
 
 Eicosatrienoic 
 ETrA 
 cis-11,14,17- 
 20:3 □-3 
 
 
   
   
 eicosatrienoic 
   
 
 
 Eicosa- 
 ETA 
 cis-8,11,14,17- 
 20:4 □-3 
 
 
 tetraenoic 
   
 eicosatetraenoic 
   
 
 
 Eicosa- 
 EPA 
 cis-5,8,11,14,17- 
 20:5 □-3 
 
 
 pentaenoic 
   
 eicosapentaenoic 
   
 
 
 Docosatrienoic 
 DRA 
 cis-10,13,16- 
 22:3 □-3 
 
 
   
   
 docosatrienoic 
   
 
 
 Docosa- 
 DTA 
 cis-7,10,13,16- 
 22:4 □-6 
 
 
 tetraenoic 
   
 docosatetraenoic 
   
 
 
 Docosa- 
 DPAn-6 
 cis-4,7,10,13,16- 
 22:5 □-6 
 
 
 pentaenoic 
   
 docosapentaenoic 
   
 
 
 Docosa- 
 DPA 
 cis-7,10,13,16,19- 
 22:5 □-3 
 
 
 pentaenoic 
   
 docosapentaenoic 
   
 
 
 Docosa- 
 DHA 
 cis-4,7,10,13,16,19- 
 22:6 □-3 
 
 
 hexaenoic 
   
 docosahexaenoic 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 The term “total fatty acids” [“TFAs”] herein refer to the sum of all cellular fatty acids that can be derivitized to fatty acid methyl esters [“FAMEs”] by the base transesterification method (as known in the art) in a given sample, which may be the total lipid fraction or the oil fraction, for example. Thus, total fatty acids include fatty acids from neutral and polar lipid fractions, including the phosphatidylcholine fraction, the phosphatidyletanolamine fraction and the diacylglycerol, monoacylglycerol and triacylglycerol [“TAG or oil”] fractions but not free fatty acids. 
 The term “total lipid content” of cells is a measure of TFAs as a percent of the dry cell weight [“DCW”]. Thus, total lipid content [“TFAs % DCW”] is equivalent to, e.g., milligrams of total fatty acids per 100 milligrams of DCW. 
 Generally, the concentration of a fatty acid is expressed herein as a weight percent of TFAs [“% TFAs”], e.g., milligrams of the given fatty acid per 100 milligrams of TFAs. Unless otherwise specifically stated in the disclosure herein, reference to the percent of a given fatty acid with respect to total lipids is equivalent to concentration of the fatty acid as % TFAs (e.g., % EPA of total lipids is equivalent to EPA % TFAs). 
 The terms “lipid profile” and “lipid composition” are interchangeable and refer to the amount of an individual fatty acid contained in a particular lipid fraction, such as in the total lipid fraction or the oil [“TAG”] fraction, wherein the amount is expressed as a percent of TFAs. The sum of each individual fatty acid present in the mixture should be 100. 
 The term “PUFA biosynthetic pathway” refers to a metabolic process that converts oleic acid to ω-6 fatty acids such as LA, EDA, GLA, DGLA, ARA, DRA, DTA and DPAn-6 and ω-3 fatty acids such as ALA, STA, ETrA, ETA, EPA, DPA and DHA. This process is well described in the literature. See e.g., Int'. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870. Briefly, this process involves elongation of the carbon chain through the addition of carbon atoms and desaturation of the molecule through the addition of double bonds, via a series of special elongation and desaturation enzymes, respectively, (i.e., “PUFA biosynthetic pathway enzymes”) present in the endoplasmic reticulim membrane. More specifically, “PUFA biosynthetic pathway enzyme” refers to any of the following enzymes (and genes which encode said enzymes) associated with the biosynthesis of a PUFA, including: a Δ9 elongase, a C 14/16  elongase, a C 16/18  elongase, a C 18/20  elongase, a C 20/22  elongase. a Δ4 desaturase, a Δ5 desaturase, a Δ6 desaturase, a Δ8 desaturase, Δ9 desaturase, a Δ12 desaturase, a Δ15 desaturase, and/or Δ17 desaturase. 
 The term “ω-3/ω-6 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway” refers to a set of genes which, when expressed under the appropriate conditions, encode enzymes that catalyze the production of either or both ω-3 and ω-6 fatty acids. Typically the genes involved in the ω-3/ω-6 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway encode PUFA biosynthetic pathway enzymes. A representative pathway is illustrated in  FIGS. 2A and 2B , providing for the conversion of myristic acid through various intermediates to DHA, which demonstrates how both ω-3 and ω-6 fatty acids may be produced from a common source. The pathway is naturally divided into two portions, such that one portion generates only ω-3 fatty acids and the other portion, only ω-6 fatty acids. That portion that generates only ω-3 fatty acids is referred to herein as the ω-3 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway, whereas that portion that generates only ω-6 fatty acids is referred to herein as the ω-6 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway. However, as seen in  FIGS. 2A and 2B  and as described below, there are often multiple alternate pathways for production of a specific PUFA. 
 All pathways require the initial conversion of oleic acid to linoleic acid [“LA”], the first of the ω-6 fatty acids, by a Δ12 desaturase. Then, using the “Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase pathway” and LA as substrate, long-chain ω-6 fatty acids are formed as follows: 1) LA is converted to eicosadienoic acid [“EDA”] by a Δ9 elongase; 2) EDA is converted to dihomo-γ-linolenic acid [“DGLA”] by a Δ8 desaturase; 3) DGLA is converted to arachidonic acid [“ARA”] by a Δ5 desaturase; 4) ARA is converted to docosatetraenoic acid [“DTA”] by a C 20/22  elongase; and, 5) DTA is converted to docosapentaenoic acid [“DPAn-6”] by a Δ4 desaturase. Alternatively, the “Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase pathway” can use α-linolenic acid [“ALA”] as substrate to produce long-chain ω-3 fatty acids as follows: 1) LA is converted to ALA, the first of the ω-3 fatty acids, by a Δ15 desaturase; 2) ALA is converted to eicosatrienoic acid [“ETrA”] by a Δ9 elongase; 3) ETrA is converted to eicosatetraenoic acid [“ETA”] by a Δ8 desaturase; 4) ETA is converted to eicosapentaenoic acid [“EPA”] by a Δ5 desaturase; 5) EPA is converted to docosapentaenoic acid [“DPA”] by a C 20/22  elongase; and, 6) DPA is converted to docosahexaenoic acid [“DHA”] by a Δ4 desaturase. Optionally, ω-6 fatty acids may be converted to ω-3 fatty acids; for example, ETA and EPA are produced from DGLA and ARA, respectively, by Δ17 desaturase activity. 
 Alternate pathways for the biosynthesis of ω-3/ω-6 fatty acids utilize a Δ6 desaturase and C 18/20  elongase (i.e., the “Δ6 desaturase/Δ6 elongase pathway”). More specifically, LA and ALA may be converted to γ-linolenic acid [“GLA”] and stearidonic acid [“STA”], respectively, by a Δ6 desaturase; then, a C 18/20  elongase converts GLA to DGLA and/or STA to ETA. Downstream PUFAs are subsequently formed as described above. 
 As used herein, the term “functional” as used herein relating to the (ω-3/ω-6 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway, means that some (or all) of the genes in the pathway express active enzymes, resulting in in vivo catalysis or substrate conversion. It should be understood that “ω-3/ω-6 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway” or “functional ω-3/ω-6 fatty acid biosynthetic pathway” does not imply that all the genes listed in the above paragraph are required, as a number of fatty acid products will only require the expression of a subset of the genes of this pathway. 
 As used herein, the term “desaturase” refers to a polypeptide that can desaturate adjoining carbons in a fatty acid by removing a hydrogen from one of the adjoining carbons and thereby introducing a double bond between them. Desaturation produces a fatty acid or precursor of interest. Despite use of the omega-reference system throughout the specification to refer to specific fatty acids, it is more convenient to indicate the activity of a desaturase by counting from the carboxyl end of the substrate using the delta-system. Of particular interest herein are: 1) Δ5 desaturases that catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, DGLA, to ARA and/or of the substrate fatty acid, ETA, to EPA; 2) Δ17 desaturases that desaturate a fatty acid between the 17 th  and 18 th  carbon atom numbered from the carboxyl-terminal end of the molecule and which, for example, catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, ARA, to EPA and/or the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, DGLA, to ETA; 3) Δ6 desaturases that catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, LA, to GLA and/or the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, ALA, to STA; 4) Δ12 desaturases that catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, oleic acid, to LA; 5) Δ15 desaturases that catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, LA, to ALA and/or the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, GLA, to STA; 6) Δ4 desaturases that catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, DPA, to DHA and/or the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, DTA, to DPAn-6; 7) Δ8 desaturases that catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, EDA, to DGLA and/or the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, ETrA, to ETA; and, 8) Δ9 desaturases that catalyze the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, palmitate, to palmitoleic acid (16:1) and/or the conversion of the substrate fatty acid, stearic acid, to oleic acid. Δ15 and Δ17 desaturases are also occasionally referred to as “omega-3 desaturases”, “ω-3 desaturases”, and/or “Δ-3 desaturases”, based on their ability to convert ω-6 fatty acids into their ω-3 counterparts (e.g., conversion of LA into ALA and ARA into EPA, respectively). It may be desirable to desirable to empirically determine the specificity of a particular fatty acid desaturase by transforming a suitable host with the gene for the fatty acid desaturase and determining its effect on the fatty acid profile of the host. 
 As used herein, the term “elongase” refers to a polypeptide that can elongate a fatty acid carbon chain to produce an  acid  2 carbons longer than the fatty acid substrate that the elongase acts upon. This process of elongation occurs in a multi-step mechanism in association with fatty acid synthase, as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2005/0132442 and Int'l App. Pub. No. WO 2005/047480. Examples of reactions catalyzed by elongase systems are the conversion of GLA to DGLA, STA to ETA and EPA to DPA. In general, the substrate selectivity of elongases is somewhat broad but segregated by both chain length and the degree and type of unsaturation. For example, a C 14/16  elongase will utilize a C 14  substrate (e.g., myristic acid), a C 16/18  elongase will utilize a C 16  substrate (e.g., palmitate), a C 18/20  elongase will utilize a C 18  substrate (e.g., GLA, STA) and a C 20/22  elongase will utilize a C 20  substrate (e.g., EPA). In like manner, a Δ9 elongase is able to catalyze the conversion of LA and ALA to EDA and ETrA, respectively. It is important to note that some elongases have broad specificity and thus a single enzyme may be capable of catalyzing several elongase reactions. For example, a single enzyme may thus act as both a C 16/18  elongase and a C 18/20  elongase. 
 Genetically Engineered Oleaginous Yeast for PUFA Production 
 As described above, oleaginous yeast can be engineered to produce ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs by integration of appropriate heterologous genes encoding desaturases and elongases of the Δ6 desaturase/Δ6 elongase pathway or the Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase pathway into the host organism for production of any particular PUFA of interest. Preferred genes and considerations for choosing a specific polypeptide having desaturase or elongase activity are detailed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/198,975, Ser. No. 11/265,761, Ser. No. 11/264,784, Ser. No. 11/264,737 and Ser. No. 12/244,822, as are details concerning additional modifications that may be required to enable high level production of a particular PUFA, including: 1) manipulation of the activity of acyltransferases that allow for the transfer of omega fatty acids into storage lipid pools (i.e., the TAG fraction); 2) over-expression of desaturases, elongases, diacylglycerol cholinephosphotransferases and acyltransferases by use of strong promoters, expression in multicopy, and/or codon-optimization; 3) down-regulation of the expression of specific genes within the PUFA biosynthetic pathway that diminish overall accumulation of the desired PUFA; and, 4) manipulation of pathways and global regulators that affect production of the desired PUFA. The term “high-level production” refers to production of at least about 5% of the desired PUFA (i.e., LA, ALA, EDA, GLA, STA, ETrA, DGLA, ETA, ARA, EPA, DTA, DPAn-6, DPA and/or DHA) in the total lipids of the microbial host, preferably at least about 10% of the desired PUFA in the total lipids, more preferably at least about 15-25% of the desired PUFA in the total lipids, more preferably at least about 25-35% of the desired PUFA in the total lipids, and most preferably at least about 35-45% of the desired PUFA in the total lipids. The structural form of the PUFA is not limiting; thus, for example, the EPA may exist in the total lipids as free fatty acids or in esterified forms such as acylglycerols, phospholipids, sulfolipids or glycolipids 
 Although numerous oleaginous yeast could be engineered for production of preferred ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs based on the teachings herein and in co-pending and commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/198,975 [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/033723], Ser. No. 11/265,761 [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870], Ser. No. 11/264,784 [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/055322], Ser. No. 11/264,737 [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052871] and Ser. No. 12/244,822 (filed Oct. 3, 2008), representative strains of the oleaginous yeast  Yarrowia lipolytica  are described in Table 11 of Example 5. These include the following strains that have been deposited with the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC):  Y. lipolytica  strain Y2047 (producing ARA via the Δ6 desaturase/Δ6 elongase pathway; ATCC Accession No. PTA-7186);  Y. lipolytica  strain Y2096 (producing EPA via the Δ6 desaturase/Δ6 elongase pathway; ATCC Accession No. PTA-7184);  Y. lipolytica  strain Y2201 (producing EPA via the Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase pathway; ATCC Accession No. PTA-7185); and  Y. lipolytica  strain Y3000 (producing DHA via the Δ6 desaturase/Δ6 elongase pathway; ATCC Accession No. PTA-7187);  Y. lipolytica  strain Y4128 (producing EPA via the Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase pathway; ATCC Accession No. PTA-8614); and  Y. lipolytica  strain Y4127 (producing EPA via the Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase pathway; ATCC Accession No. PTA-8802). 
 Oleaginous Yeast for PUFA Production and CoQ 10  Production 
 In living organisms, lipids serve as structural components of cell membranes, are important hormones or contain essential fatty acids, and are used for energy storage. TAGs are the primary storage unit for fatty acids; and, a wide spectrum of fatty acids can be incorporated into TAGs, including saturated and unsaturated fatty acids and short-chain and long-chain fatty acids. Some non-limiting examples of fatty acids that can be incorporated into TAGs by acyltransferases include: capric (10:0), lauric (12:0), myristic (14:0), palmitic (16:0), palmitoleic (16:1), stearic (18:0), oleic (18:1), vaccenic (18:1), LA, eleostearic (18:3), ALA, GLA, arachidic (20:0), EDA, ETrA, DGLA, ETA, ARA, EPA, behenic (22:0), DPA, DHA, lignoceric (24:0), nervonic (24:1), cerotic (26:0) and montanic (28:0) fatty acids. 
 Lipid peroxidation, which leads to rancidity in oils, most often affects PUFAs, because they contain multiple double bonds in between which lie methylene (i.e., —CH 2 ) groups that are especially reactive to hydrogen. The oxygen-dependent deterioration can occur non-enzymatically via a free radical chain reaction mechanism (i.e., autoxidation) or via photo-oxygenation; additionally, fatty acids may also be peroxidized via enzymatic peroxidation (i.e., via lipoxygenase enzymes). Furthermore, fatty acids may be autoxidized either in free form or combined into glycerolipids or glycolipids. Thus, oxidized triacylglycerol monomers include molecules containing different oxygenated groups, mainly hydroxyl-, keto- and epoxy-, as well as short-chain fatty acyl and short-chain n-oxo fatty acyl groups as the main products (Chang, S. S. et al.,  JOACS,  55:718 (1978); Velasco, J. et al.,  Eur. J. Lipid Sci. Technol.,  106:728 (2004)). Autoxidation of fatty acids with more than 3 double bonds leads to even more complex mixtures of product (e.g., see Porter, N. A. et al.,  J. Am. Chem. Soc.,  103:6447 (1981) and Bruna, E. et al.,  Lipids,  24:970 (1990) concerning autoxidation of arachidonic, pentaenoic and hexaenoic acids). 
 Based on the above, a recombinant oleaginous yeast engineered to co-produce both CoQ 10  and PUFAs should prove advantageous. It is expected that the presence of CoQ 10  should minimize overall lipid peroxidation and thus stabilize the PUFAs. Thus, described herein is a recombinant oleaginous yeast production host for the production of antioxidants and PUFAs comprising:
         a) at least one copy of a ddsA gene encoding a decaprenyl diphosphate synthase, wherein expression of said decaprenyl diphosphate synthase enzyme results in the production of COQ 10 ; and,   b) a functional ω-3/ω-6 PUFA biosynthetic pathway, wherein expression of said ω-3/ω-6 PUFA biosynthetic pathway results in the production of at least one PUFA selected from the group consisting of: an ω-6 PUFA and an ω-3 PUFA;
 
wherein said oleaginous yeast produces at least about 25 weight percent (%) of its DCW as oil.
       
 Similarly, described herein is a method for the production of CoQ 10  and PUFAs in a recombinant oleaginous yeast, comprising:
         a) providing an oleaginous yeast, the oleaginous yeast
           1.) producing a quinone of the coenzyme Q series selected from the group consisting of: CoQ 6 , CoQ 7 , CoQ 8  and CoQ 9 ,; and,   2.) comprising genetic constructs encoding a functional ω-3/ω-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic pathway whereby the transformed yeast cells produce at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid;   
   b) transforming the oleaginous yeast host cell with at least one copy of a genetic construct encoding decaprenyl diphosphate synthase; and,   c) culturing the transformed yeast cells of step (b) under suitable conditions, whereby
           i.) the decaprenyl diphosphate synthase is expressed and whereby CoQ 10  is produced; and,   ii.) the functional ω-3/ω-6 PUFA biosynthetic pathway is expressed and at least one PUFA is produced selected from the group consisting of LA, ALA, EDA, GLA, STA, ETrA, DGLA, ETA, ARA, DTA, DPAn-6, EPA, DPA and DHA.
 
The oleaginous yeast preferably is a recombinant strain of  Yarrowia lipolytica  that has been previously engineered for high-level production of a preferred ω-3/ω-6 PUFA. Upon transformation with at least one ddsA gene using the methodology described previously, the resultant recombinant yeast will co-produce CoQ 10  and PUFAs.
   
       
 A variety of means are available to increase the total amount of CoQ 10  that is produced in the above recombinant oleaginous yeast. For example, previous work in  Yarrowia lipolytica  has demonstrated that use of strong promoters, expression in multicopy, and/or codon-optimization of heterologous genes can very successfully be used as a means to increase expression. These tools should be equally applicable with respect to expression of decaprenyl diphosphate synthase (encoded by ddsA). 
 Manipulation of pathways and global regulators that affect production of CoQ 10  and/or down-regulation of the expression of specific genes within the CoQ 10  biosynthetic pathway that diminish overall accumulation of CoQ 10  are also contemplated by the Applicants herein as a means to increase CoQ 10  production. For example, it may be useful to disrupt the recombinant host organism's native E-polyprenyl diphosphate synthases that do not have decaprenyl diphosphate synthase activity, to thereby enable all CoQ production in the engineered recombinant host to be in the form of CoQ 10 . Thus, when engineering  Yarrowia lipolytica  for CoQ 10  production, for example, it may prove useful to diminish or inactivate the organism's native solanesyl diphosphate synthase. Furthermore, rate limiting steps in the pathway can be identified and overcome by increasing the expression level of the genes involved. 
 Preferably, the CoQ 10  produced is at least about 0.0001% of the total DCW, more preferably at least about 0.001%, more preferably at least about 0.01%, even more preferably at least about 0.1% and most preferably at least about 1% of the total DCW. 
 The naturally produced CoQg and recombinantly produced CoQ 10  by  Yarrowia lipolytica  during fermentation is typically in a substantially reduced state. As used herein, “substantially reduced form of CoQ” or “substantially reduced” refers to a condition where the majority of the CoQ present in a composition is in the reduced form. In one aspect, substantially reduced refers to a condition whereby at least about 50% of the CoQ (percentage based on total CoQ present) in a composition is in the reduced state, preferably at least about 70% is in the reduced form, more preferably at least about 80% is in the reduced form, even more preferably at least about 90% is in the reduced form, yet even more preferably at least about 95% is in the reduced form, and most preferably at least about 98% of the CoQ in a composition is in the reduced form. 
 Production of CoQ 10  PUFAs, and Carotenoids in Oleaginous Yeast Carotenoid Definitions and Biosynthetic Pathway 
 As used herein, the term “isoprenoid compound” refers to compounds formally derived from isoprene (2-methylbuta-1,3-diene; CH 2 ═C(CH 3 )CH═CH 2 ), the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule. These compounds are produced biosynthetically via the isoprenoid pathway beginning with isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) and formed by the head-to-tail condensation of isoprene units, leading to molecules which may be, for example, of 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, or 40 carbons in length. 
 As used herein, the term “carotenoid” refers to a class of hydrocarbons having a conjugated polyene carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene. Although carotenoids can be of various lengths and can be acyclic or terminated with one (monocyclic) or two (bicyclic) cyclic end groups, for the purposes of the present application the term carotenoids will generally refer to C 40  carotenoids that consist of eight isoprenoid units joined in such a manner that the arrangement of isoprenoid units is reversed at the center of the molecule so that the two central methyl groups are in a 1,6-positional relationship and the remaining nonterminal methyl groups are in a 1,5-positional relationship. All C 40  carotenoids may be formally derived from the acyclic C 40 H 56  structure. These molecules typically have strong light absorbing properties. Also, these compounds react destructively with oxygen and hence may require other antioxidant compounds that act as preservatives. 
 C 40  carotenoids may include both carotenes and xanthophylls. A “carotene” refers to a hydrocarbon carotenoid. The term “xanthophyll” refers to a C 40  carotenoid that contains one or more oxygen atoms in the form of hydroxy-, methoxy-, oxo-, epoxy-, carboxy- or aldehydic functional groups. Examples of xanthophylls include, but are not limited to: antheraxanthin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, keto-γ-carotene, echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3′-hydroxyechinenone, zeaxanthin, adonirubin, tetrahydroxy-β,β′-caroten-4,4′-dione, tetrahydroxy-β,β′-caroten-4-one, caloxanthin, erythroxanthin, nostoxanthin, flexixanthin, 3-hydroxy-γ-carotene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-γ-carotene, bacteriorubixanthin, bacteriorubixanthinal and lutein. In one aspect, preferred xanthophylls are selected from the group consisting of: lycopene, β-carotene, canthaxanthin, astaxanthin and zeaxanthin. 
 As used herein, the terms “carotenoid biosynthetic pathway” and “carotenoid pathway” will be used interchangeably and refer to those enzymes which convert farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) to a C 40  carotenoid. The enzymes within this pathway are encoded by the “crt” genes including, but not limited to: crtE, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtO, and crtW. Finally, the term “carotenoid biosynthetic enzyme” is an inclusive term referring to any and all of the enzymes in the pathway involved in the biosynthesis of astaxanthin including, but not limited to: CrtE, CrtY, CrtI, CrtB, CrtZ, CrtO and CrtW. 
 The genetics of carotenoid biosynthesis are well known (Armstrong, G., in  Comprehensive Natural Products Chemistry , Elsevier, v. 2, pp 321-352 (1999)); Lee, P. and Schmidt-Dannert, C.,  Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.,  60:1-11 (2002); Lee et al.,  Chem. Biol.,  10:453-462 (2003), and Fraser, P. and Bramley, P. ( Progress in Lipid Research,  43:228-265 (2004)). This pathway is extremely well studied in the Gram-negative, pigmented bacteria of the genera  Pantoea , formerly known as  Erwinia . Of particular interest are the genes responsible for the production of C 40  carotenoids used as pigments in animal feed (e.g., zeaxanthin, lutein, canthaxanthin and astaxanthin). 
 Although the enzymatic pathway involved in the biosynthesis of carotenoid compounds converts FPP to C 40  carotenoids, the pathway can be subdivided into two parts comprising: 1) the C 40  backbone genes (i.e., crtE, crtB, crtI, and crtY) encoding enzymes responsible for converting FPP to β-carotene; and, 2) subsequent functionalization genes (e.g., crtW, crtO, crtR, crtX and crtZ) responsible for adding various functional groups to the β-ionone rings of β-carotene ( FIGS. 3A and 3B ). 
 More specifically, the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway begins with the conversion of FPP to geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP). In this first step, the enzyme geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase (encoded by the crtE gene) condenses the C 15  FPP with a C 5  isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP), creating the C 20  compound GGPP. Thus, the term “CrtE” refers to a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme encoded by the crtE gene and which converts trans-trans-farnesyl diphosphate and IPP to pyrophosphate and GGPP. Next, a phytoene synthase (encoded by the gene crtB) condenses two GGPP molecules to form phytoene, the first C 40  carotenoid compound in the pathway. The term “CrtB” refers to a phytoene synthase enzyme encoded by the crtB gene which catalyzes the reaction from prephytoene diphosphate to phytoene. Subsequently, a series of sequential desaturations (i.e., producing the intermediaries of phytofluene, ζ-carotene and neurosporene) occur catalyzed by the enzyme phytoene desaturase (encoded by the gene crtI), resulting in the production of lycopene. As used herein, the term “CrtI” refers to a phytoene desaturase enzyme encoded by the crtI gene which converts phytoene into lycopene by the introduction of 4 double bonds. Finally, the enzyme lycopene cyclase (encoded by the gene crtY) forms β-ionone rings on each end of lycopene, forming the bicyclic carotenoid β-carotene. The term “CrtY” refers to a lycopene cyclase enzyme encoded by the crtY gene that converts lycopene to β-carotene. 
 The rings of β-carotene can subsequently be functionalized by a carotenoid ketolase (encoded by the genes crtW, crtO or bkt) and/or carotenoid hydroxylase (encoded by the genes crtZ or crtR) forming commercially important xanthophyll pigments such as canthaxanthin, astaxanthin and zeaxanthin. In terms of the ketolation and hydroxylation reactions, the CrtW-type ketolases and the CrtZ-type hydroxylases are preferred. The pathway from β-carotene to astaxanthin is somewhat non-linear in nature as a variety of intermediates can be formed ( FIGS. 3A and 3B ). 
 As used herein, the term “CrtW” refers to a β-carotene ketolase (also referred to as a carotenoid ketolase) enzyme encoded by the crtW gene that catalyzes an oxidation reaction where a keto group is introduced on the β-ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids. This reaction converts cyclic carotenoids (i.e., β-carotene or zeaxanthin) into ketocarotenoids (i.e., canthaxanthin or astaxanthin, respectively). Intermediates in the process typically include echinenone and adonixanthin. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtO” refers to a β-carotene ketolase (also referred to as a carotenoid ketolase) enzyme encoded by the crtO gene that catalyzes an oxidation reaction where a keto group is introduced on the β-ionone type ring of cyclic carotenoids. The CrtO-type carotenoid ketolases are structurally unrelated to the CrtW-type ketolases. This reaction converts cyclic carotenoids (i.e., β-carotene or zeaxanthin) into ketocarotenoids (i.e., canthaxanthin or astaxanthin, respectively). Intermediates in the process typically include echinenone and adonixanthin. In one aspect, a mixture of CrtW-type and CrtO-type carotenoid ketolases are used to produce the desired ketocarotenoids. 
 As used herein, the term “CrtZ” refers to a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme (also referred to herein as a “β-carotene hydroxylase”) encoded by the crtZ gene that catalyzes a hydroxylation reaction. The oxidation reaction adds a hydroxyl group to cyclic carotenoids having a β-ionone type ring. 
 It is known that CrtW ketolases, CrtO ketolases and CrtZ hydroxylases typically exhibit substrate flexibility, enabling production of a variety of ketocarotenoids or hydroxylated carotenoids, respectively, depending upon available substrates. 
 Genetically Engineered Oleaginous Yeast for Carotenoid Production 
 It has recently been demonstrated that oleaginous yeast can be engineered to produce C 40  carotenoids by integration of appropriate heterologous genes encoding cdE, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtO and crtW into the host organism for production of any particular C 40  carotenoid of interest (see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/952,243 [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367]). 
 The source of the carotenoid biosynthesis gene(s) to be heterologously expressed in an oleaginous yeast, such as  Yarrowia lipolytica , may vary as carotenoid biosynthesis has been reported in a variety of organisms. Depending upon the source of carotenoid biosynthesis gene(s), it may be necessary to codon-optimize at least a portion (up to the entire length) of the gene targeted for heterologous expression using the preferred codon usage within the host cell. The preferred codon usage for  Yarrowia lipolytica  has previously been reported (see U.S. Pat. No. 7,125,672). 
 The genes required for carotenoid production are well-known in the art and can be selected based on the carotenoid targeted for production, as summarized in the Table below. 
             TABLE 3               Genes Required For                               Synthesis Of Various                   crtW or   crtZ or       Carotenoids   crtE   crtB   crtI   crtY   crtO   crtR                 Lycopene   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   —   —   —       β-Carotene   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   —   —       Canthaxanthin   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   —       Zeaxanthin   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   —   1 (+)       Astaxanthin   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)   1 (+)               Note:       The designation 1 (+) represents “one or more”.           
Thus, for example, production of a ketocarotenoid, such as canthaxanthin, will require expression of the C 40  backbone genes (i.e., crtE, crtB, crtI and crtY) and at least one carotenoid ketolase gene (i.e., crtW and/or crtO). Production of hydroxylated carotenoids, such as zeaxanthin and astaxanthin, require the expression of the C 40  backbone genes (i.e., crtE, crtB, crtI and crtY) and at least one carotenoid hydroxylating gene (i.e., crtZ).
 
 Examples of suitable carotenoid biosynthesis genes include, but are not limited to those provided in Table 4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 4 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Sources of Genes Encoding the Carotenoid Biosynthetic Pathway 
 
 
 
 
 Gene 
 GenBank ® Accession Number 
 
 
   
 
 
 crtE (GGPP 
 AB000835, AB016043, AB019036, AB016044, 
 
 
 Synthase) 
 AB027705, AB027706, AB034249, AB034250, 
 
 
   
 AF020041, AF049658, AF049659, AF139916, 
 
 
   
 AF279807, AF279808, AJ010302, 
 
 
   
 AJ133724, AJ276129, D85029, L25813, L37405, U15778, 
 
 
   
 U44876, X92893, X95596, X98795 and Y15112 
 
 
 crtX 
 D90087, M87280 and M90698 
 
 
 (Zeaxanthin 
   
 
 
 glucosylase) 
   
 
 
 crtY 
 AF139916, AF152246, AF218415, AF272737, AJ133724, 
 
 
 (Lycopene- 
 AJ250827, AJ276965, D58420, D83513, L40176, M87280, 
 
 
 β-cyclase) 
 U50738, U50739, U62808, X74599, X81787, X86221, 
 
 
   
 X86452, X95596 and X98796 
 
 
 crtI 
 AB046992, AF039585, AF049356, AF139916, AF218415, 
 
 
 (Phytoene 
 AF251014, AF364515, D58420, D83514, L16237, L37405, 
 
 
 desaturase) 
 L39266, M64704, M88683, S71770, U37285, U46919, 
 
 
   
 U62808, X55289, X59948, X62574, X68058, X71023, 
 
 
   
 X78271, X78434, X78815, X86783, Y14807, Y15007, 
 
 
   
 Y15112, Y15114 and Z11165 
 
 
 crtB 
 AB001284, AB032797, AB034704, AB037975, AF009954, 
 
 
 (Phytoene 
 AF139916, AF152892, AF218415, AF220218, AJ010302, 
 
 
 synthase) 
 AJ133724, AJ278287, AJ304825 and AJ308385, D58420, 
 
 
   
 L23424, L25812, L37405, M38424, M87280, S71770, 
 
 
   
 U32636, U62808, U87626, U91900, X52291, X60441, 
 
 
   
 X63873, X68017, X69172 and X78814 
 
 
 crtZ (β- 
 D58420, D58422, D90087, M87280, U62808 and Y15112 
 
 
 carotene 
   
 
 
 hydro- 
   
 
 
 xyllase) 
   
 
 
 crtW (β- 
 AF218415, D45881, D58420, D58422, X86782 and 
 
 
 carotene 
 Y15112 
 
 
 ketolase) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Preferred sources of carotenoid biosynthesis genes are from  Pantoea stewartii  (ATCC #8199; Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2002/079395),  Pantoea stewartii  DC413 (U.S. Pat. No. 7,288,387),  Pantoea agglomerans  DC404 (U.S. Pat. No. 6,929,928), Enterobacteriaceae DC260 (U.S. Pat. No. 7,064,196),  Brevundimonas vesicularis  DC263 (U.S. Pat. No. 7,252,985 and U.S. Pat. No. 7,091,031),  Sphingomonas melonis  DC18 (U.S. Pat. No. 7,252,985),  Novosphingobium aromaticivorans  ATCC #700278 (U.S. Pat. No. 7,091,031) and  Agrobacterium aurantiacum  (U.S. Pat. No. 5,811,273, U.S. Pat. No. 5,972,690 and U.S. Pat. No. 6,150,130). 
 By using various combinations of the genes presented in Table 4, a variety of C 40  carotenoids can be made from FPP. Furthermore, one of skill in the art recognizes that the copy number and/or the expression level of each gene can be altered for optimal carotenoid production. The recombinant oleaginous yeast may comprise at least one copy of each gene required to produce the desired carotenoid. More preferred, the recombinant oleaginous yeast comprises a plurality of each gene required to produce the desired carotenoid. To clarify, for example, if 2 copies of a crtY are required, this can refer to: 1) two copies of an identical coding sequence for a particular crtY isolated from a single species; or, 2) one coding sequence for crtY isolated from a species “A” and one coding sequence for a crtY isolated from a species “B”, thus collectively resulting in two crtY genes. 
 It is also understood that one or more genes in the mevalonate pathway may be overexpressed to increase carotenoid production. This is especially true when the concentration of FPP appears to be limited. 
 It is also understood that one or more genes encoding enzymes that direct carbon flow away from carotenoid biosynthesis may be downregulated and/or disrupted (assuming it is not an essential gene) to increase carotenoid and/or isoprenoid production. Means to down-regulate and/or disrupt genes are well known in the art (Maniatis, supra). 
 Numerous oleaginous yeast could be engineered for production of preferred C 40  carotenoids based on the teachings in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/952,243 [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367]. Representative carotenoid-producing strains of the oleaginous yeast  Yarrowia lipolytica  described therein include the following:  Y. lipolytica  strain LY5 (producing lycopene), the  Y. lipolytica  YCS1001-YCS1010 series and YCS1011-YCS1020 series (producing lycopene), the  Y. lipolytica  YCS1200 series and YCS1300 series (producing primarily β-carotene), the  Y. lipolytica  YCS3700 series and YCS4100 series (producing zeaxanthin), and the  Y. lipolytica  YCS4100 series (producing canthaxanthin). Although these strains are not high-producing, they are suitable to demonstrate proof of concept. Following the teachings provided to enable high-level production of various PUFAs (e.g., use of strong promoters, expression of genes in high copy number), similar strategies could readily be applied to enable one skilled in the art to genetically engineer a strain of  Y. lipolytica  having the ability to produce high titers of preferred C 40  carotenoids, wherein the total C 40  carotenoid in the microbial host is preferably at least about 100 ppm, more preferably at least about 500 ppm and most preferably at least about 1000 ppm. 
 It should be noted that, for those recombinant oleaginous yeast hosts that produce more than one carotenoid, it will sometimes be possible to adjust the relative amounts of individual carotenoids produced by adjusting growth conditions. For example, it has been reported that controlling the concentration of dissolved oxygen in a culture during cultivation can regulate relative production levels of certain carotenoids such as β-carotene, echinenone, β-cryptoxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, asteroidenone, canthaxanthin, zeaxanthin, adonirubin, adonixanthin and astaxanthin (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,825,002). 
 Genetically Engineered Oleaginous Yeast for CoQ 10  PUFA and Carotenoid Production 
 Also provided herein are recombinant oleaginous yeast producing CoQ 10 , PUFAs and C 40  carotenoids. A PUFA-producing yeast is effectively transformed with the genetic elements of the C 40  pathway as described herein and a gene (ddsA) responsible for the condensation reaction that polymerizes prenyl diphosphate (an allylic primer) and 3-isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) to produce polyprenyl diphosphate. Enzymes of particular usefulness in the expression of C 40  carotenoids include, but are not limited to phytoene synthase (crtB), phytoene desaturase (crtI), lycopene cyclase (crtY), carotenoid hydroxylase (crtZ), and a carotenoid ketolase (crtW). Carotenoids of particular relevance herein include but are not limited to: lycopene, β-carotene, zeaxanthin, lutein, canthaxanthin and astaxanthin. ω-3 PUFAs including ALA, STA, ETA, ETrA, EPA, DPA and DHA and ω-6 PUFAs including LA, GLA, EDA, DGLA, ARA, DTA and DPAn-6 are of particular interest. PUFA synthesis may take many paths but generally utilizes enzymes selected from the group consisting of desaturases (e.g., Δ4, Δ5, Δ6, Δ8, Δ9, Δ12, Δ15, Δ17 desaturases) and elongases (e.g., Δ9 elongases and C 14/16 , C 16/18 , C 18/20  and C 20/22  elongases). 
 These host may be genetically engineered using methods well known in the art. 
 Microbial Expression Systems, Cassettes & Vectors, and Transformation 
 Microbial expression systems and expression vectors containing regulatory sequences that direct high level expression of foreign proteins are well known to those skilled in the art. Any of these could be used to construct chimeric genes for production of the desired compounds, that is, CoQ 10  and PUFAs (and optionally, C 40  carotenoids). These chimeric genes could then be introduced into appropriate microorganisms via transformation to allow for high level expression of the enzymes. 
 Vectors (e.g., constructs, plasmids) and DNA expression cassettes are well known in the art. The specific choice of sequences present in the construct is dependent upon the desired expression products (supra), the nature of the host cell and the proposed means of separating transformed cells versus non-transformed cells. Typically, however, the vector contains at least one expression cassette, a selectable marker and sequences allowing autonomous replication or chromosomal integration. Suitable expression cassettes comprise a  region  5′ of the gene that controls transcriptional initiation (e.g., a promoter), the gene coding sequence, and a  region  3′ of the DNA fragment that controls transcriptional termination (i.e., a terminator). It is most preferred when both control regions are derived from genes homologous to the transformed host cell, although it is to be understood that such control regions need not be derived from the genes native to the specific species chosen as a production host. 
 Initiation control regions or promoters, which are useful to drive expression of the relevant genes in the desired yeast host cell are numerous and familiar to those skilled in the art. Virtually any promoter capable of directing expression of these genes in the selected host cell is suitable. Expression in a host cell can be accomplished in a transient or stable fashion. Transient expression can be accomplished by inducing the activity of a regulatable promoter operably linked to the gene of interest. Stable expression can be achieved by the use of a constitutive promoter operably linked to the gene of interest. As an example, when the host cell is yeast, transcriptional and translational regions functional in yeast cells are provided, particularly from the host species (e.g., see U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482 and Int'l. 
 App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870 [U.S. Publication 2006-0115881-A1] for preferred transcriptional initiation regulatory regions for use in  Yarrowia lipolytica ). Any one of a number of regulatory sequences can be used, depending upon whether constitutive or induced transcription is desired, the efficiency of the promoter in expressing the ORF of interest, the ease of construction and the like. 
 Nucleotide sequences surrounding the translational initiation codon ‘ATG’ have been found to affect expression in yeast cells. If the desired polypeptide is poorly expressed in yeast, the nucleotide sequences of exogenous genes can be modified to include an efficient yeast translation initiation sequence to obtain optimal gene expression. For expression in yeast, this can be done by site-directed mutagenesis of an inefficiently expressed gene by fusing it in-frame to an endogenous yeast gene, preferably a highly expressed gene. Alternatively, as demonstrated in  Yarrowia lipolytica , one can determine the consensus translation initiation sequence in the host and engineer this sequence into heterologous genes for their optimal expression in the host of interest. 
 Termination control regions may be derived from various genes native to the preferred hosts. Optionally, a termination site may be unnecessary; however, it is most preferred if included. As used herein, the termination region can be derived from the 3′ region of the gene from which the initiation region was obtained or from a different gene. A large number of termination regions are known and function satisfactorily in a variety of hosts (when utilized both in the same and different genera and species from where they were derived). Typically, the termination region usually is selected more as a matter of convenience rather than because of any particular property. For the purposes herein, wherein the host cell is an oleaginous yeast, the termination region is preferably derived from a yeast gene, particularly  Saccharomyces, Schizosaccharomyces, Candida, Yarrowia  or  Kluyveromyces . The 3′-regions of mammalian genes encoding γ-interferon and α-2 interferon are also known to function in yeast. Although not intended to be limiting, preferred termination regions useful in the disclosure herein include: ˜100 bp of the 3′ region of the  Yarrowia lipolytica  extracellular protease (Xpr; GenBank® Accession No. M17741); the acyl-CoA oxidase (Aco3: GenBank® Accession No. AJ001301 and No. CAA04661; Pox3: GenBank® Accession No. XP — 503244) terminators; the Pex20 (GenBank® Accession No. AF054613) terminator; the Pex16 (GenBank® Accession No. U75433) terminator; the Lip1 (GenBank® Accession No. Z50020) terminator; the Lip2 (GenBank® Accession No. AJ012632) terminator; and the 3-oxoacyl-coA thiolase (Oct; GenBank® Accession No. X69988) terminator. 
 As one of skill in the art is aware, merely inserting a gene into a cloning vector does not ensure that it will be successfully expressed at the level needed. In response to the need for a high expression rate, many specialized expression vectors have been created by manipulating a number of different genetic elements that control aspects of transcription, translation, protein stability, oxygen limitation and secretion from the microbial host cell. More specifically, some of the molecular features that have been manipulated to control gene expression include: 1) the nature of the relevant transcriptional promoter and terminator sequences; 2) the number of copies of the cloned gene and whether the gene is plasmid-borne or integrated into the genome of the host cell; 3) the final cellular location of the synthesized foreign protein; 4) the efficiency of translation and correct folding of the protein in the host organism; 5) the intrinsic stability of the mRNA and protein of the cloned gene within the host cell; and, 6) the codon usage within the cloned gene, such that its frequency approaches the frequency of preferred codon usage of the host cell. Each of these types of modifications are encompassed herein, as means to further optimize expression of the required ddsA genes and PUFA biosynthetic genes (and optionally carotenoid biosynthetic genes). Methods of codon-optimizing foreign genes for optimal expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica  are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 7,125,672. 
 Once the DNA encoding a polypeptide suitable for expression in an appropriate microbial host cell (e.g., oleaginous yeast) has been obtained (e.g., a chimeric gene comprising a promoter, ORF and terminator), it is placed in a plasmid vector capable of autonomous replication in a host cell, or it is directly integrated into the genome of the host cell. Integration of expression cassettes can occur randomly within the host genome or can be targeted through the use of constructs containing regions of homology with the host genome sufficient to target recombination within the host locus. Where constructs are targeted to an endogenous locus, all or some of the transcriptional and translational regulatory regions can be provided by the endogenous locus. 
 Constructs comprising a coding region of interest may be introduced into a host cell by any standard technique. These techniques include transformation (e.g., lithium acetate transformation [Guthrie, C.,  Methods in Enzymology,  194:186-187 (1991)]), protoplast fusion, biolistic impact, electroporation, microinjection, or any other method that introduces the gene of interest into the host cell. More specific teachings applicable for oleaginous yeast (i.e.,  Yarrowia lipolytica ) include U.S. Pat. No. 4,880,741 and No. 5,071,764 and Chen, D. C. et al. ( Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.,  48(2):232-235 (1997)). 
 The preferred method of expressing genes in  Yarrowia lipolytica  is by integration of linear DNA into the genome of the host; and, integration into multiple locations within the genome can be particularly useful when high level expression of genes are desired. For example, preferred loci for integration include: the Ura3 locus (GenBank® Accession No. AJ306421), the Leu2 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. AF260230), the Lys5 gene (GenBank® Accession No. M34929), the Aco2 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. AJ001300), the Pox3 gene locus (Pox3: GenBank® Accession No. XP — 503244; or, Aco3: GenBank® Accession No. AJ001301), the Δ12 desaturase gene locus (U.S. Pat. No. 7,214,491), the Lip1 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. Z50020), the Lip2 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. AJ012632), the SCP2 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. AJ431362), the Pex3 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. CAG78565), the Pex16 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. CAG79622) and/or the Pex10 gene locus (GenBank® Accession No. CAG81606). 
 Where two or more genes are expressed from separate replicating vectors, it is desirable that each vector has a different means of selection and should lack homology to the other construct(s) to maintain stable expression and prevent reassortment of elements among constructs. Judicious choice of regulatory regions, selection means and method of propagation of the introduced construct(s) can be experimentally determined so that all introduced genes are expressed at the necessary levels to provide for synthesis of the desired products. 
 For convenience, a host cell that has been manipulated by any method to take up a DNA sequence (e.g., an expression cassette) will be referred to as “transformed” or “recombinant” herein. The transformed host will have at least one copy of the expression construct and may have two or more, depending upon whether the gene is integrated into the genome, amplified, or is present on an extrachromosomal element having multiple copy numbers. 
 The transformed host cell can be identified by various selection techniques, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482 and Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870 [U.S. Publication 2006-0115881-A1]. Preferred selection methods for use herein are resistance to kanamycin, hygromycin and the amino glycoside G418, as well as ability to grow on media lacking uracil, leucine, lysine, tryptophan or histidine. Alternately, 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-fluorouracil-6-carboxylic acid monohydrate; “5-FOA”) is used for selection of yeast Ura −  mutants. The compound is toxic to yeast cells that possess a functioning URA3  gene encoding orotidine  5′-monophosphate decarboxylase (OMP decarboxylase); thus, based on this toxicity, 5-FOA is especially useful for the selection and identification of Ura −  mutant yeast strains (Bartel, P. L. and Fields, S., Yeast 2-Hybrid System, Oxford University: New York, v. 7, pp 109-147, 1997). More specifically, one can first knockout the native Ura3 gene to produce a strain having a Ura− phenotype, wherein selection occurs based on 5-FOA resistance. Then, a cluster of multiple chimeric genes and a new Ura3 gene can be integrated into a different locus of the  Yarrowia  genome to thereby produce a new strain having a Ura+ phenotype. Subsequent integration produces a new Ura3− strain (again identified using 5-FOA selection), when the introduced Ura3 gene is knocked out. Thus, the Ura3 gene (in combination with 5-FOA selection) can be used as a selection marker in multiple rounds of transformation. 
 An alternate preferred selection method utilized herein relies on a dominant, non antibiotic marker for  Yarrowia lipolytica  based on sulfonylurea resistance (see Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870 for additional details). The technique is also generally applicable to other industrial yeast strains that may be haploid, diploid, aneuploid or heterozygous. Specifically, the sulfonylurea resistance selection marker utilized herein for transforming  Yarrowia lipolytica  does not rely on a foreign gene but on a mutant native gene. Thus, it neither requires auxotrophy nor results in auxotrophy and allows transformation of wild type strains. More specifically, the marker gene (SEQ ID NO:1) is a native acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS or acetolactate synthase; E.C. 4.1.3.18) that has a single amino acid change (W497L) that confers sulfonyl urea herbicide resistance. AHAS is the first common enzyme in the pathway for the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids and it is the target of the sulfonylurea and imidazolinone herbicides. The W497L mutation has been reported in  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  (Falco, S. C., et al.,  Dev. Ind. Microbiol.,  30:187-194 (1989); Duggleby, R. G., et. al.,  Eur. J. Biochem.,  270:2895 (2003)). 
 An additional method for recycling a selection marker relies on site-specific recombinase systems. Briefly, the site-specific recombination system consists of two elements: 1) a recombination site having a characteristic DNA sequence [e.g., LoxP]; and, 2) a recombinase enzyme that binds to the DNA sequence specifically and catalyzes recombination (i.e., excision) between DNA sequences when two or more of the recombination sites are oriented in the same direction at a given interval on the same DNA molecule [e.g., Cre]. This methodology has utility as a means of selection, since it is possible to “recycle” a pair of preferred selection markers for their use in multiple sequential transformations. 
 Specifically, an integration construct is created comprising a target gene that is desirable to insert into the host genome (e.g., a ddsA gene), as well as a first selection marker (e.g., ura) that is flanked by recombination sites. Following transformation and selection of the transformants, the first selection marker is excised from the chromosome by the introduction of a replicating plasmid carrying a second selection marker (e.g., sulfonylurea resistance [AHAS]) and a recombinase suitable to recognize the site-specific recombination sites introduced into the genome. Upon selection of those transformants carrying the second marker and confirmation of excision of the first selection marker from the host genome, the replicating plasmid is then cured from the host in the absence of selection. This produces a transformant that possesses neither the first nor second selection marker, and thus the cured strain is available for another round of transformation. One skilled in the art will recognize that the methodology is not limited to the particular selection markers or site-specific recombination system used in the present description. 
 Metabolic Engineering in Microbes 
 Methods for manipulating biochemical pathways are well known to those skilled in the art; and, it is expected that numerous manipulations will be possible to maximize CoQ 10  and PUFA production (and optionally C 40  carotenoid biosynthesis) in oleaginous yeasts, and particularly, in  Yarrowia lipolytica . This may require metabolic engineering directly within the CoQ 10 , PUFA and/or C 40  carotenoid biosynthetic pathway or additional coordinated manipulation of various other metabolic pathways. 
 In the case of manipulations within the CoQ 10  biosynthetic pathway, it may be desirable to increase the production of FPP to enable increased production of CoQ 10 . Introducing and/or amplifying the idi gene (responsible for isomerization of IPP to dimethyl allyl diphosphate, a rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of carotenoids genes [Wang et al.,  Biotechnol. Bioeng.,  62:235-241 (1999)]) may accomplish this. Similarly, to maximize production of CoQ 10 , it is well known to one skilled in the art that production is favored in a host microorganism whose native E-polyprenyl diphosphate synthase is removed or inhibited, thereby minimizing production of other quinones of the coenzyme Q series, that is Q 6 , Q 7 , Q 8  and Q 9 . The endogenous desaturase activity can be reduced or eliminated by, for example: 1) providing a cassette for transcription of antisense sequences to the native E-polyprenyl diphosphate synthase transcription product; 2) disrupting the native E-polyprenyl diphosphate synthase gene through insertion, substitution and/or deletion of all or part of the target gene; or, 3) using a host cell which naturally has [or has been mutated to have] low native E-polyprenyl diphosphate synthase activity. 
 Microbial Fermentation Processes 
 The transformed microbial host cell is grown under conditions that optimize expression of chimeric genes and produce the greatest and the most economical yield of desired CoQ 10  and PUFAs (and optionally, C 40  carotenoids). In general, media conditions that may be optimized include the type and amount of carbon source, the type and amount of nitrogen source, the carbon-to-nitrogen ratio, the oxygen level, growth temperature, pH, length of the biomass production phase, length of the oil accumulation phase and the time and method of cell harvest. Microorganisms of interest, such as oleaginous yeast (e.g.,  Yarrowia lipolytica ) are generally grown in complex media (e.g., yeast extract-peptone-dextrose broth (YPD)) or a defined minimal media that lacks a component necessary for growth and thereby forces selection of the desired expression cassettes (e.g., Yeast Nitrogen Base (DIFCO Laboratories, Detroit, Mich.)). 
 Fermentation media for the methods and host cells described herein must contain a suitable carbon source such as are taught in U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482. Suitable sources of carbon encompass a wide variety of sources, with sugars, glycerol and/or fatty acids being preferred. Most preferred is glucose and/or fatty acids containing between 10-22 carbons. 
 Nitrogen may be supplied from an inorganic (e.g., (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 ) or organic (e.g., urea or glutamate) source. In addition to appropriate carbon and nitrogen sources, the fermentation media must also contain suitable minerals, salts, cofactors, buffers, vitamins and other components known to those skilled in the art suitable for the growth of the oleaginous host and promotion of the enzymatic pathways necessary for CoQ 10  and PUFA production (and optionally, C 40  carotenoid production). Particular attention is given to several metal ions (e.g., Fe +2 , Cu +2 , Mn +2 , Co +2 , Zn +2 , Mg +2 ) that promote synthesis of lipids and PUFAs (Nakahara, T. et al.,  Ind. Appl. Single Cell Oils , D. J. Kyle and R. Colin, eds. pp 61-97 (1992)). 
 Preferred growth media in the present invention are common commercially prepared media, such as Yeast Nitrogen Base (DIFCO Laboratories, Detroit, Mich.). Other defined or synthetic growth media may also be used and the appropriate medium for growth of the transformant host cells will be known by one skilled in the art of microbiology or fermentation science. A suitable pH range for the fermentation is typically between about pH 4.0 to pH 8.0, wherein pH 5.5 to pH 7.5 is preferred as the range for the initial growth conditions. The fermentation may be conducted under aerobic or anaerobic conditions, wherein microaerobic conditions are preferred. 
 Typically, accumulation of high levels of CoQ 10  and PUFAs (and optionally C 40  carotenoids) in oleaginous yeast cells requires a two-stage process, since the metabolic state must be “balanced” between growth and synthesis/storage of fats. Thus, most preferably, a two-stage fermentation process is necessary for production in oleaginous yeast (e.g.,  Yarrowia lipolytica ). This approach is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482, as are various suitable fermentation process designs (i.e., batch, fed-batch and continuous) and considerations during growth. 
 Purification and Processing of CoQ 10  and PUFAs 
 The primary product is oleaginous yeast biomass. As such, isolation and purification of the CoQ 10 - and PUFA-containing oils (optionally including carotenoids) from the biomass may not be necessary (i.e., wherein the biomass is the product). 
 However, certain end uses may require partial and/or complete isolation/purification of the CoQ 10 - and PUFA-containing oils (optionally including carotenoids) from the biomass. Given the lipophilic/hydrophobic nature of carotenoids, many techniques applied to isolate/purify microbially produced oils/PUFAs should work to isolate carotenoids as well, especially when the desired product is a pigmented oil. As such, any number of well known techniques can be used to isolate the lipophilic/hydrophobic compounds from the biomass including, but not limited to extraction (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,797,303 and No. 5,648,564) with organic solvents, sonication, supercritical fluid extraction (e.g., using carbon dioxide), saponification and physical means such as presses, or combinations thereof. One is referred to the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482 for additional details. 
 One review of PUFA extraction techniques, quality analysis and acceptability standards for yeast lipids is that of Z. Jacobs ( Critical Reviews in Biotechnology,  12(5/6):463-491 (1992)). A brief review of downstream processing is also available by A. Singh and O. Ward ( Adv. Appl. Microbiol.,  45:271-312 (1997)). 
 Use of Compositions Comprising CoQ 10    
 Given the desire for natural antioxidants in the e.g., food/feed industry and the proven ability to recombinantly produce CoQ 10  and ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs in an oleaginous yeast, it is expected that the CoQ 10  may function as a useful antioxidant to stabilize ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs and ω-3/ω-6 PUFA/C 40  carotenoid mixtures. As such, a method to stabilize microbially produced PUFAs and PUFA/carotenoid mixtures using CoQ 10  is provided. Similarly, “stabilized microbial oils” are provided herein, wherein one of skill in the art of processing and formulation will understand how the amount and composition of the stabilized microbial oil may be added to the product. Such an amount will be referred to herein as an “effective” amount and will depend on the food or feed product, the diet that the product is intended to supplement or the medical condition that the medical food or medical nutritional is intended to correct or treat. 
 The term “stabilized microbial oils” refers herein to a microbial oil comprising CoQ 10  as an antioxidant and at least one ω-3/ω-6 PUFA (and optionally comprising at least one C 40  carotenoid). Preferably, the CoQ 10  is present in an “effective” amount, wherein the term “effective amount of microbially-produced antioxidant” refers to the amount of a microbially-produced antioxidant that is effective in decreasing the rate of oxidation of a C 40  carotenoid pigment, an ω-3/ω-6 PUFA, or mixtures thereof (or any other compound that is subject to oxidation). One of skill in the art recognizes that the antioxidant will typically be used in a substantially reduced form and that an effective amount of microbially-produced antioxidant varies according to the product and/or product formulation according to target species and/or end use. Typically, the amount of antioxidant incorporated into the product takes into account losses associated with processing conditions, typical handling and storage conditions and the stability of the antioxidant in the product, to name a few. Preferably, the amount of antioxidant produced by the oleaginous yeast biomass is at least about 0.0001 wt %, preferably at least about 0.001 wt %, even more preferably at least about 0.01 wt %, and most preferably at least about 0.1 wt % (based on DCW). 
 The amount of PUFA present in the “stabilized microbial oils” described herein is an “effective” amount wherein the term “effective amount of a PUFA” refers to the amount of a microbially produced ω-3/ω-6 PUFA incorporated into a product formulation that is sufficient to provide the desirable health characteristics associated with ω-3/ω-6 PUFA consumption. One of skill in the art can vary the amount and type of PUFA incorporated into the product formulation according to target species and/or end use. Typically, the amount of PUFA incorporated into the product takes into account losses associated with processing conditions, typical handling and storage conditions, the stability of the PUFA in the product, and the bioavailability/bioabsorption efficiency with the target species, to name a few. 
 The amount of C 40  carotenoid (or “pigment”) present in the “stabilized microbial oils” described herein is an “effective” amount, wherein the term “effective amount of pigment” refers to the amount of pigment incorporated into an animal feed product that effectively pigments at least one animal tissue (e.g., chicken products such as egg yolks; crustacean muscle tissue and/or shell tissue; fish muscle tissue and/or skin tissue, etc.) under feeding conditions considered suitable for growth of the target animal species. The amount of pigment incorporated into the animal feed may vary according to target species. Typically, the amount of pigment product incorporated into the feed product takes into account pigmentation losses associated with feed processing conditions, typical handling and storage conditions, the stability of the pigment in the feed, the bioavailability/bioabsorption efficiency of the particular species, the pigmentation rate of the animal tissue targeted for pigmentation, and the overall profile of pigment isomers (wherein some are preferentially absorbed over others), to name a few. In one aspect, the effective amount of pigment in the pigmented feed is at least about 10 mg/kg feed, preferably at least about 10 mg/kg to about 250 mg/kg, more preferably about 20 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, and most preferably about 30 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg feed. Alternately, the “effective amount of pigment” may also refer to an amount of carotenoid pigment added to effectively function as an additional antioxidant in the target application. 
 The present oleaginous yeast biomass comprising CoQ 10  and at least one ω-3/ω-6 PUFA (and optionally at least one C 40  carotenoid) can be prepared and sold in a variety of product forms including, but not limited to whole cell biomass, partially purified biomass, purified oil, and purified CoQ 10 . The product form will depend upon the targeted end use. 
 An animal feed, food product, dietary supplement, pharmaceutical composition, infant formula, or personal care product comprising oleaginous yeast biomass comprising the antioxidant CoQ 10  and at least one ω-3/ω-6 PUFA (and optionally at least one C 40  carotenoid) is also provided herein. It is contemplated that the stabilized microbial oils comprising CoQ 10  and ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs will function in each of these applications to impart the health benefits of current formulations using more traditional sources of ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs. Similarly, an animal feed, food product, dietary supplement, pharmaceutical composition, infant formula, or personal care product comprising a stabilized microbial oil isolated from the recombinant oleaginous yeast biomass is also provided. Preferably, the yeast biomass comprises at least about 25 wt % oil, more preferably at least about 30-40 wt %, and most preferably at least about 40-50 wt % microbially-produced oil. 
 Food Products and Infant Formulas 
 Stabilized microbial oils containing ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs and optionally at least one C 40  carotenoid will be suitable for use in a variety of food and feed products including, but not limited to food analogs, meat products, cereal products, baked foods, snack foods and dairy products. Alternatively, the stabilized PUFAs (or derivatives thereof) may be incorporated into cooking oils, fats or margarines formulated so that in normal use the recipient would receive the desired amount for dietary supplementation. The stabilized PUFAs may also be incorporated into infant formulas, nutritional supplements or other food products and may find use as anti-inflammatory or cholesterol lowering agents. 
 The term “food product” refers to any food generally suitable for human consumption. This definition encompasses a “food analog”, i.e., a food-like product manufactured to resemble its food counterpart, whether meat, cheese, milk or the like, and that is intended to have the appearance, taste, and texture of its counterpart. Typical food products include but are not limited to meat products, cereal products, baked foods, snack foods, fried foods, beverages, dairy products, infant formulas and the like. Description of each of these product classes is provided in Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870 [U.S. Publication 2006-0115881-A1]. 
 Additional food products into which the stabilized microbial oils could be included are, for example: chewing gums, confections and frostings, gelatins and puddings, hard and soft candies, jams and jellies, white granulated sugar, sugar substitutes, sweet sauces, toppings and syrups, and dry-blended powder mixes. 
 Health Food Products and Pharmaceuticals 
 A health food product is any food product that imparts a health benefit and include “functional foods”, “medical foods”, “medical nutritionals” and “dietary supplements”. Description of each of these product classes is provided in Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870 [U.S. Publication 2006-0115881-A1]. 
 Stabilized microbial oils of the invention may also be used in standard pharmaceutical compositions. The term “pharmaceutical” means a compound or substance which if sold in the United States would be controlled by e.g., Section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. 
 Engineered strains of oleaginous yeast (engineered to produce CoQ 10  and at least one ω-3/ω-6 PUFA [and optionally at least one C 40  carotenoid]) or the stabilized microbial oils produced therefrom could readily be incorporated into the any of the above mentioned health food products, to thereby produce e.g., a functional or medical food. For example more concentrated formulations comprising CoQ 10  and ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs (e.g., ARA or EPA) include capsules, powders, tablets, softgels, gelcaps, liquid concentrates and emulsions which can be used as a dietary supplement in humans or animals other than humans. Similarly, compositions comprising CoQ 10  and at least one ω-3/ω-6 PUFA (and optionally at least one C 40  carotenoid) can be used as dietary substitutes, or supplements, particularly infant formulas, for patients undergoing intravenous feeding or for preventing or treating malnutrition. Optionally, the compositions may be used for pharmaceutical use (human or veterinary). In this case, the stabilized PUFAs are generally administered orally but can be administered by any route by which they may be successfully absorbed, e.g., parenterally (e.g., subcutaneously, intramuscularly or intravenously), rectally, vaginally or topically (e.g., as a skin ointment or lotion). 
 Animal Feed Products 
 Animal feeds are generically defined herein as products intended for use as feed or for mixing in feed for animals other than humans. More specifically, the term “animal feed” refers to feeds intended exclusively for consumption by animals, including domestic animals (e.g., pets, farm animals, home aquarium fish, etc.) or for animals raised for the production of food (e.g., poultry, eggs, fish, crustacea, etc.). 
 More specifically, although not limited therein, it is expected that the recombinant oleaginous yeast described herein or stabilized microbial oils thereof can be used within pet food products, ruminant and poultry food products and aquacultural food products. Pet food products are those products intended to be fed to a pet (e.g., a dog, cat, bird, reptile, rodent); these products can include the cereal and health food products above, as well as meat and meat byproducts, soy protein products, grass and hay products (e.g., alfalfa, timothy, oat or brome grass, vegetables). Ruminant and poultry food products are those wherein the product is intended to be fed to e.g., turkeys, chickens, cattle and swine. As with the pet foods above, these products can include cereal and health food products, soy protein products, meat and meat byproducts, and grass and hay products as listed above. Aquacultural food products (or “aquafeeds”) are those products intended to be used in aquafarming which concerns the propagation, cultivation or farming of aquatic organisms and/or animals in fresh or marine waters. More specifically, the term “aquaculture” refers to the production and sale of farm raised aquatic plants and animals. Typical examples of animals produced through aquaculture include, but are not limited to: lobsters, shrimp, prawns, and fish (i.e., ornamental and/or food fish). 
 The biomass and/or stabilized microbial oils (comprising CoQ 10  and (ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs [and optionally C 40  carotenoids]) can be used as an ingredient in any of the animal feeds described above. In addition to providing necessary ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs in a stabilized form (and optionally, carotenoid pigment), the oleaginous yeast itself is a useful source of protein and other nutrients (e.g., vitamins, minerals, nucleic acids, complex carbohydrates, etc.) that can contribute to overall animal health and nutrition, as well as increase a formulation's palatability. Accordingly it is contemplated that the addition of yeast biomass comprising the recombinant production hosts described herein will be an excellent additional source of feed nutrients in animal feed formulations, wherein the term “feed nutrient” means nutrients such as proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals and nucleic acids that may be derived from the yeast biomass comprising the recombinant production hosts. 
 More specifically, for example,  Yarrowia lipolytica  (ATCC #20362) has the following approximate chemical composition, as a percent relative to the DCW: 35% protein, 40% lipid, 10% carbohydrate, 5% nucleic acids, 5% ash and 5% moisture. Furthermore, within the carbohydrate fraction, β-glucans comprise approximately 45.6 mg/g, mannans comprise approximately 11.4 mg/g, and chitin comprises approximately 52.6 mg/g (while trehalose is a minor component [approximately 0.7 mg/g]). 
 A considerable body of literature has examined the immuno-modulating effects of yeast β-glucans, mannans and chitin in both traditional animal husbandry and within the aquacultural sector. The means by which β-glucans, the primary constituents of bacterial and fungal cell walls, stimulate non-specific immunity (i.e., “immunostimulant effects”) to thereby improve health of aquaculture species, pets and farm animals and humans are best studied, although both chitin and mannans are similarly recognized as useful immunostimulants (see Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870 for additional details). 
 Based on the unique protein:lipid:carbohydrate composition of  Yarrowia lipolytica , as well as the unique complex carbohydrate profile (comprising an approximate 1:4:4.6 ratio of mannan:β-glucans:chitin), it is contemplated that the genetically engineered yeast cells of the present invention (or portions thereof) would be useful additives to animal feed formulations (e.g., as whole [lyophilized] yeast cells, as purified cells walls, as purified yeast carbohydrates or within various other fractionated forms). 
 When the biomass and/or stabilized microbial oils of the recombinant production hosts herein comprise an effective amount of C 40  carotenoids (preferably lutein, lycopene, β-carotene, canthaxanthin, astaxanthin, and/or zeaxanthin), the biomass and/or oil is suitable as an ingredient in a “pigmented feed product” or “pigmented animal feed”. As used herein, “pigmented” or “pigment” will refer to a material having coloration provided by at least one C 40  carotenoid pigment produced from a recombinant oleaginous yeast. Many animals have been reported to acquire tissue pigmentation by absorbing xanthophylls in their feed. The pigmented animal feed may be an animal feed selected from the group consisting of fish feed, crustacea feed, shrimp feed, crab feed, lobster feed, and chicken feed. The nutritional requirements and feed forms for each animal feed are well known in the art (for example, see  Nutrient Requirements of Fish , published by the Board of Agriculture's Committee on Animal Nutrition, National Research Council, National Academy: Washington, D.C. 1993; and  Nutrient Requirements of Poultry , published by the Board of Agriculture's Committee on Animal Nutrition, National Research Council, National Academy: Washington, D.C. 1994). 
 The pigmented feed product is typically a feed pellet formed using one of many techniques known in the art such cold pressed pellets, extruded pellets, and feed pellets wherein the pigmented product is suspended in oil and applied to the feed pellet after the extrusion process (“post-extrusion applied” or PE). In preferred aspects, the pigmentation product is oleaginous yeast biomass comprising stabilized and pigmented microbially-produced oil (additionally comprising ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs), or purified oil isolated from the recombinant oleaginous yeast biomass. The size and shape of the feed pellets may vary according to the target species and developmental stage. The incorporation of the pigmented product post-extrusion can be accomplished using a variety of techniques. Typically, the pigmentation product is mixed with a suitable oil (e.g., vegetable oil, corn oil, sunflower, soybean oil, fish oil) and prior to applying the pigment to the extruded feed pellet. The amount of pigmented biomass product formulated into feed pellets can be adjusted and/or optimized for the particular application. Factors to consider include, but are not limited to: the concentration of the pigment in the biomass, the concentration of the pigment in the pigmentation product, the target species, the age and/or growth rate of the selected species, the type of carotenoid used, the bioabsorption characteristics of the chosen pigment in the context of the species to be pigmented, the feeding schedule, the cost of the pigment, and the palatability of the resulting feed. One of skill in the art can adjust the amount of pigmented biomass incorporated into the feed so that adequate levels of carotenoid are present while balancing the nutritional requirements of the species. Typical concentrations of the carotenoid pigment incorporated into, for example, fish feed range from about 10 to about 200 mg/kg of fish feed, wherein a preferred range is from about 10 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, a more preferred range is from about 10 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg and a most preferred range is from about 20 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, depending on the specific product. 
 Although numerous commercial products comprising the oleaginous yeasts, the stabilized microbially produced oil thereof, or isolated CoQ 10  are contemplated by the Applicants herein, applications of the products are described below in additional detail in reference to various specific animal feeds. Generally, the recombinant oleaginous yeast biomass comprises about 0.1 weight percent (wt %) to about 50 wt % of the animal feed, preferably about 0.5 wt % to about 20 wt %, more preferably about 1 wt % to about 10 wt %, most preferably about 1 wt % to about 5 wt %. These examples are not intended to be limiting. 
 Chicken Feed—Nutritional Requirements: The dietary requirements of poultry are well known (see Nutrient Requirements of Poultry, published by the Board of Agriculture's Committee on Animal Nutrition, National Research Council, National Academy: Washington, D.C. 1994). Typical feeds are comprised of crude protein (including essentially amino acids), carbohydrates, fats/lipids (e.g., ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs), vitamins (i.e., fat and water soluble), minerals (i.e., both macrominerals and trace minerals) and water. Additional feed ingredients may include antioxidants (e.g., CoQ 10 ; typically included to prevent oxidation of lipids and/or pigments), hormones, antibiotics and pigments (i.e., carotenoids), to name of few. The source of the various components is typically chosen based on cost, availability and quality of the nutrients they contain. Typically, components include, but are not limited to: cereal grains (primarily carbohydrates and protein), animal protein meal, animal or vegetable fats/lipids, and isolates from various plants including corn, rice, alfalfa and soybean, to name a few. 
 When producing a “poultry pigmentation product”, referring to pigmented feed additives used to color poultry via commercial farming techniques, preferred carotenoids are lutein, canthaxanthin, astaxanthin and/or zeaxanthin. Typically, the poultry is a chicken and the pigmentation product is used to pigment chicken tissue (e.g., skin) and/or egg yolks. 
 Crustacea Feed—Nutritional Requirements: The dietary requirements of crustacea are well-known (see “Training Manual on Shrimp and Fish Nutrition and Feed Management”, CIBA Special Bulletin No. 15; Oct. 22-31, 2002; Ali, Amanad, editor; published by the Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA), Chennai, India, hereinafter referred to as “Amanad”). Typical feeds are comprised of crude protein (including essentially amino acids), carbohydrates, fats/lipids (e.g., ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs), vitamins (i.e., fat and water soluble), minerals (i.e., both macrominerals and trace minerals) and water. Additional feed ingredients may include antioxidants (e.g., CoQ 10 ; typically included to prevent oxidation of lipids and/or pigments), hormones, antibiotics and pigments (i.e., carotenoids), to name of few. The source of the various components is typically chosen based on cost, availability and quality of the nutrients they contain. Typically, components include, but are not limited to: cereal grains (primarily carbohydrates and protein), animal protein meal (e.g., fish, prawn, squid, and clam meat meal), animal or vegetable fats/lipids, and isolates from various plants including corn, rice, alfalfa, soybean, groundnut cake (i.e., peanuts), sunflower cake, and gingelly (sesame) cake, to name a few. Examples of the moisture, protein, fat, fiber, carbohydrate, and ash content of various raw feed materials typically used in feed is shown in Tables 5 and 6 (see Amanad). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 5 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Composition Of Various Raw Feed Materials Used In Preparing 
 
 
 Shrimp Feed 
 
 
 
 
   
 Mois- 
   
   
   
 Carbo- 
   
 
 
 Ingredient 
 ture 
 Protein 
 Fat 
 Fiber 
 hydrate 
 Ash 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 Fish Meal 
 10.8 
 55.0 
 5.4 
 1.73 
 3.27 
 23.78 
 
 
 Prawn Head 
 9.91 
 39.8 
 9.6 
 16.3 
 4.0 
 20.18 
 
 
 Squid Meal 
 8.4 
 66.5 
 4.4 
 3.98 
 5.9 
 10.8 
 
 
 Clam meat meal 
 10.1 
 49.9 
 8.66 
 — 
 28.3 
 7.75 
 
 
 Soybean Meal 
 10.45 
 51.5 
 1.00 
 8.85 
 19.7 
 8.5 
 
 
 Groundnut Cake 
 13.05 
 46.93 
 5.0 
 8.9 
 18.03 
 8.9 
 
 
 Sunflower Cake 
 7.0 
 26.69 
 2.04 
 30.13 
 26.37 
 7.7 
 
 
 Gingelly Cake 
 9.76 
 38.71 
 6.00 
 10.96 
 15.8 
 19.02 
 
 
   
 
 
 *Note: 
 
 
 All values reported as weight percent (wt %) of ingredient. 
 
 
 
 
 
             TABLE 6                 Typical Composition Of Feed Formulation For Shrimp           Ingredient   Starter Feed   Grower Feed   Finishing Feed               Crude protein   40-45   38-40   35-38       Lipid   6-8    8-10    8-10       Carbohydrate   10-16   15-20   20-25       Crude fiber   1-2   1-3   2-4       Ash   10-12   10-15   12-18       Mineral mix   2-5   2-5   2-5               *Note:       All values reported as weight percent (wt %) of ingredient.           
Mixtures comprising these compositions are blended and then pelleted and dried with 16-17% moisture.
 
 When producing a “crustacean pigmentation product”, referring to pigmented feed additives used to color crustaceans via commercial aquacultural techniques, preferred carotenoids are canthaxanthin and/or astaxanthin. Typically, the crustaceans are shrimp or lobsters and the pigmentation product is used to pigment tissue and shells. 
 Fish Feed—Nutritional Requirements: An increased understanding of the nutritional requirements for various fish species and technological advances in feed manufacturing have allowed the development and use of manufactured or artificial diets (formulated feeds) to supplement or to replace natural feeds in the aquaculture industry. The dietary requirements of fish are well known (see Nutrient Requirements of Fish, published by the Board of Agriculture's Committee on Animal Nutrition, National Research Council, National Academy: Washington, D.C. 1993). The dietary requirements of fish feed may vary according to species, aquatic environment, temperature and age. However, the general nutrition requirements for most aquatic species produced via aquaculture are known and are generally comprised of about 25 wt % to about 55 wt % crude protein (including essentially amino acids), up to about 30 wt % lipids (e.g., ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs), vitamins (i.e., fat and water soluble), minerals (i.e., including essential minerals), carbohydrates (sometimes included as an economical energy source although not required) and water (typically about 6-40 wt % depending upon the desired product form). Additional feed ingredients may include: 1) antioxidants (i.e., CoQ 10 ), to prevent oxidation of lipids and/or pigments and to extend product shelf-life; 2) carotenoids, particularly for salmonid and ornamental “aquarium” fishes, to enhance tissue coloration of e.g., muscle, skin, shell, etc.; 3) binding agents, to provide stability to the pellet and reduce leaching of nutrients into the water (e.g., beef heart, starch, cellulose, pectin, gelatin, gum arabic, locust bean, agar, carageenin and other alginates); 4) chemoattractants and flavorings, to enhance feed palatability and its intake; and, 5) other feedstuffs. These other feedstuffs can include such materials as hormones, antibiotics, fiber and ash (for use as a filler and as a source of calcium and phosphorus, respectively), vegetable matter and/or fish or squid meal (e.g., live, frozen or dried algae, brine shrimp, rotifers or other zooplankton) to enhance the nutritional value of the diet and increase its acceptance by the fish. 
 When producing a “fish pigmentation product”, referring to pigmented feed additives used to color fish via commercial aqucultural techniques, preferred carotenoids are canthaxanthin and/or astaxanthin. Fish pigmented by absorbing carotenoids include, but are not limited to salmonids, carp ( Cyprinus  sp.), red sea bream, tilapia, goldfish, Cichlidae, and yellowtail (Serola lalandi). In one aspect, fish pigmented using the present materials are members of the family Salmonidae, whose typical members include salmon, trout and chars. 
 The source of the various components is typically chosen based on cost relative to growth performance. Typically, components include but are not limited to: fish meal, fish oil (typically marine fish oil), meat meal, shrimp meal, and isolates from various plants including corn, rice, and soybean, to name a few. In one aspect, the majority of the crude protein and crude lipids in the fish feed is preferably provided by fish meal and fish oil. 
 The manufacture of aquafeed formulations requires consideration of a variety of factors, since a complete diet must be nutritionally balanced, palatable, water stable and have the proper size and texture. With regard to nutrient composition of aquafeeds, one is referred to:  Handbook on Ingredients for Aquaculture Feeds  (Hertrampf, J. W. and F. Piedad-Pascual. Kluwer Academic: Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 2000) and  Standard Methods for the Nutrition and Feeding of Farmed Fish and Shrimp  (Tacon, A. G. J. Argent Laboratories: Redmond, 1990). In general, feeds are formulated to be dry (i.e., final moisture content of 6-10%), semi-moist (i.e., 35-40% water content) or wet (i.e., 50-70% water content). Dry feeds include the following: simple loose mixtures of dry ingredients (i.e., “mash” or “meals”); compressed pellets, crumbles or granules; and flakes. Depending on the feeding requirements of the fish, pellets can be made to sink or float. Semi-moist and wet feeds are made from single or mixed ingredients (e.g., trash fish or cooked legumes) and can be shaped into cakes or balls. 
 EXAMPLES 
 The present invention is further described in the following Examples, which illustrate reductions to practice of the invention but do not completely define all of its possible variations. 
 General Methods 
 Standard recombinant DNA and molecular cloning techniques used in the Examples are well known in the art and are described by: 1) Sambrook, J. and Russell, D.  Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual;  3 rd  Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001); 2) T. J. Silhavy, M. L. Bennan, and L. W. Enquist,  Experiments with Gene Fusions ; Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1984); and 3) Ausubel, F. M. et al.,  Current Protocols in Molecular Biology , published by Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken, N.J. (1987). 
 Materials and methods suitable for the maintenance and growth of microbial cultures are well known in the art. Techniques suitable for use in the following examples may be found as set out in  Manual of Methods for General Bacteriology  (Phillipp Gerhardt, R. G. E. Murray, Ralph N. Costilow, Eugene W. Nester, Willis A. Wood, Noel R. Krieg and G. Briggs Phillips, Eds), American Society for Microbiology: Washington, D.C. (1994)); or by Thomas D. Brock in  Biotechnoloyy: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology,  2 nd  ed., Sinauer Associates: Sunderland, Mass. (1989). All reagents, restriction enzymes and materials used for the growth and maintenance of microbial cells were obtained from Aldrich Chemicals (Milwaukee, Wis.), DIFCO Laboratories (Detroit, Mich.), GIBCO/BRL (Gaithersburg, Md.), or Sigma Chemical Company (St. Louis, Mo.), unless otherwise specified. 
   E. coli  (XL1-Blue or XL2-Blue) competent cells were purchased from the Stratagene Company (San Diego, Calif.).  E. coli  strains were typically grown at 37° C. on Luria Bertani (LB) plates. 
 General molecular cloning was performed according to standard methods (Sambrook et al., supra). Oligonucleotides were synthesized by Sigma-Genosys (Spring, Tex.). Individual PCR amplification reactions were carried out in a 50 μl total volume, comprising: PCR buffer (containing 10 mM KCl, 10 mM (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.75), 2 mM MgSO 4 , 0.1% Triton X-100), 100 μg/mL BSA (final concentration), 200 μM each deoxyribonucleotide triphosphate, 10 pmole of each primer and 1 μl of Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene, San Diego, Calif.), unless otherwise specified. 
 The meaning of abbreviations is as follows: “sec” means second(s), “min” means minute(s), “h” means hour(s), “d” means day(s), “μL” means microliter(s), “mL” means milliliter(s), “L” means liter(s), “μM” means micromolar, “mM” means millimolar, “M” means molar, “mmol” means millimole(s), “μmol” mean micromole(s), “g” means gram(s), “μg” means microgram(s), “ng” means nanogram(s), “U” means unit(s), “bp” means base pair(s), “kB” means kilobase(s), “DCW” means dry cell weight, and “TFAs” means total fatty acids. 
 The structure of an expression cassette will be represented by a simple notation system of “X::Y::Z”, wherein X describes the promoter fragment, Y describes the gene fragment, and Z describes the terminator fragment, which are all operably linked to one another. 
 Cultivation of  Yarrowia lipolytica    
   Yarrowia lipolytica    strain ATCC # 20362 was purchased from the American Type Culture Collection (Rockville, Md.).  Yarrowia lipolytica  strains were routinely grown at 30° C. in several media: minimal media (MM), fermentation media, YPD media and Oil Induction media. Agar plates were prepared as required by addition of 20 g/L agar to each liquid media, according to standard methodology.
     Basic Minimal Media (MM) Recipe (per liter): 20 g glucose; 1.7 g yeast nitrogen base without amino acids; 1.0 g proline; and pH 6.1 (not adjusted).   Fermentation medium: 6.70 g/L Yeast nitrogen base; 5.00 g/L Yeast extract (BBL); 6.00 g/L KH 2 PO 4 ; 2.00 g/L K 2 HPO 4 ; 1.50 g/L MgSO 4 *7H 2 O; and 20 g/L Glucose.   YPD agar medium (per liter): 10 g of yeast extract [Difco], 20 g of Bacto peptone [Difco]; and 20 g of glucose.   Oil induction (OI) medium: 100 mM Glucose and 50 mM (pH 6.5) Potassium phosphate.   High Glucose Media (HGM) (per liter): 80 glucose, 2.58 g KH 2 PO 4  and 5.36 g K 2 HPO 4 , pH 7.5 (do not need to adjust).   
 Example 1 
 DNA Transformation in  Yarrowia lipolytica    
 The following general procedure was used to make  Yarrowia lipolytica  chemically competent for DNA transformation (Chen, D. C. et al.,  Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.,  48(2):232-235-(1997)). 
   Yarrowia  cells were streaked onto  YPD media plates  1 day prior to transformation. The cells were incubated at 30° C. 
 Several large loopfuls (˜3) of cells from the YPD plate were resuspended in 1 mL of transformation media [comprising 2.25 mL 50% PEG (average MW 3350); 0.125 mL 2 M lithium acetate pH 6.0; 0.125 mL 2 M dithiothreitol (DTT; prepared fresh prior to each use); and 50 μL salmon sperm DNA (10 mg/mL)]. 
 The  Yarrowia  cells suspended in transformation solution were transferred as 100 μL aliquots into microfuge tubes using a large-bore pipette tip. Approximately 100 to 500 ng (5 μL) of the desired plasmid (in linearized form when transforming integration plasmids) was added and the mixture was incubated at 39° C. for 1 hr with vortexing of the mixture every 15 min. After incubation, approximately 50 μL of the cell mixture were plated on MM agar plates with appropriate selection and incubated at 30° C. for a defined period of time (typically up to 4 days) depending upon the specific plasmid. 
 Alternatively, transformants were selected on 5-fluoroorotic acid (“FOA”; also 5-fluorouracil-6-carboxylic acid monohydrate) selection media, comprising: 0.17% yeast nitrogen base (DIFCO Laboratories) without ammonium sulfate or amino acids, 2% glucose, 0.1% proline, 75 mg/L uracil, 75 mg/L uridine, 900 mg/L FOA (Zymo Research Corp., Orange, Calif.) and 20 g/L agar. 
 Transformants containing self-replicating plasmid were visible within about 2-6 days depending upon the strain. Transformants containing integrative plasmid were typically visible within 3-4 days. 
 Example 2 
 Coenzyme Q Pathway and Profile in Wildtype  Yarrowia lipolytica    
 The present Example describes the quantification of CoQ 9  in wildtype  Yarrowia lipolytica . Specifically, determination of the amount of CoQ 9  in  Yarrowia lipolytica    strain ATCC # 20362 was made using an Agilent series 1100 HPLC equipped with a DAD detector. The sample was generated by extracting the oil in 3:1 hexane:methanol overnight, partitioning the solvents using a 1 N NaCl solution and stripping the hexane with a Büchi® Rotavapor® (New Castle, Del.). 
 Three samples of approximately 15, 38, and 86 mg were added to a 4 mL amber vial. Then, 100 μL of glass beads and 1.0 mL of a previously sparged 1:1 tetrahydrofuran(THF)/methanol (MeOH) solution were added and shaken for 15 min at 200 rpm. The sample was then transferred to a Whatman uni-prep vial and analyzed. 
 A 1 mg standard sample of CoQ 9  received from Fluka Chemical Corp. (Milwaukee, Wis.; Catalog #27597, lot #378472) was diluted to 0.1 mg using 1:1 THF/MeOH and analyzed. The standard received was assumed to be exactly 1 mg. 
 The HPLC conditions used were as follows: Zorbax SB-C18 4.6×250 mm column, 5 micron; 1.0 mL/min flow rate; 35° C. column temperature; 5 μL injection volume; UV detection at 270 and 450 nm wavelengths. 
             TABLE 7                 HPLC Solvents/Gradients For CoQ 9  Extraction               Solvent A:   Solvent B:       Time (min)   Acetonitrile   Isopropanol                   0.0   95%   5%       30.0   0%   100%       35.0   0%   100%       36.0   95%   5%       45.0   95%   5%                   
Calculations were performed as follows. Specifically, the standard reference factor was equivalent to the milligrams (mg) of standard/area. The percent (%) sample amount was determined according to the following formula:
 
standard reference factor*(sample peak area/sample concentration)*100.
 
The ratio of the sample against the standard was calculated and the sample weight taken into account. The sample used was 26.64 mg and diluted with 1 mL of MeOH/THF that had been sparged of air. This was run against the existing standard of 0.1 mg/mL of CoQ 9 . The area counts for the standard were 18.9 at 450 nm and 711 at 270 nm, while for the sample, the area counts were 13 at 450 nm and 569 at 270 nm. Based on these results, the CoQ 9  calculated in the oil was in the range of 0.2 to 0.3%.
 
 Example 3 
 Construction of  Yarrowia  Expression Plasmid pDMW359 
 The present Example describes the generation of pDMW359, comprising a chimeric FBAIN::EgD9e::Pex20-3′ gene, wherein EgD9e refers to a Δ9 elongase enzyme (SEQ ID NO:4) isolated from  Euglena gracilis , encoded by SEQ ID NO:3. EgD9e is described in Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2007/061742. 
 Plasmid pDMW359 was derived from plasmid pZUF17 ( FIG. 4A ; SEQ ID NO:5; comprising a synthetic Δ17 desaturase gene [“D17st”] derived from  Saprolegnia diclina  (U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2003/0196217 A1), codon-optimized for expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica  (U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482)). Specifically, a NcoI/NotI fragment containing the coding region of the wild type  Euglena gracilis  Δ9 elongase (EgD9e) was used to replace the NcoI/NotI fragment containing the Δ17 desaturase coding region of pZUF17. The product of this ligation was pDMW359 ( FIG. 4B ; SEQ ID NO:6), which thereby contained the following components: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 8 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Components of Plasmid pDMW359 (SEQ ID NO: 6) 
 
 
 
 
 RE Sites And 
   
 
 
 Nucleotides 
   
 
 
 Within SEQ ID 
 Description Of Fragment And 
 
 
 NO: 6 
 Chimeric Gene Components 
 
 
   
 
 
 2134-1254 
 ColE1 plasmid origin of replication 
 
 
 3064-2204 
 Ampicillin-resistance gene (Amp R ) 
 
 
 3963-5267 
   Yarrowia  autonomous replication sequence (ARS18; 
 
 
   
 GenBank Accession No. A17608) 
 
 
 SalI/PacI 
   Yarrowia  Ura3 gene (GenBank Accession No. 
 
 
 6802-5301 
 AJ306421) 
 
 
 EcoRI/BsiWI 
 FBAIN::EgD9e::Pex20, comprising: 
 
 
 6843-1098 
 FBAIN:  Yarrowia lipolytica  FBAIN promoter (U.S. Pat. 
 
 
   
 No. 7,202,356); 
 
 
   
 EgD9e:  Euglena gracilis  Δ9 elongase (labeled as 
 
 
   
 “EgD9E WT” in Figure) (SEQ ID NO: 3; Int'l. App. 
 
 
   
 Pub. No. WO 2007/061742); 
 
 
   
 Pex20: Pex20 terminator sequence from  Yarrowia  Pex20 
 
 
   
 gene (GenBank Accession No. AF054613) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Example 4 
 Construction of Codon-Optimized ddsA Genes for Expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica    
 Decaprenyl diphosphate synthase, encoded by the ddsA gene, is required for CoQ 10  biosynthesis. Various prenyl diphosphate synthases have been identified in publicly available literature, based on homology to the well characterized  Gluconobacter oxydans  ddsA gene described by Okada, K., et al. (GenBank® Accession No. BAA32241;  Eur. J. Biochem.,  255(1):52-59 (1998)) and typical signature sequences of prenyl diphosphate synthases (Okada, K., et al.,  J. Bacteriol.,  179:5992-5998 (1997)). Despite sharing at least 47% sequence identity with the  Gluconobacter oxydans  ddsA, few of the proteins summarized below in Table 9 have been heterologously expressed to confirm their putative annotation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 9 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Publicly Described Prenyl Diphosphate Synthases 
 
 
 
 
 GenBank ® 
   
 SEQ 
 
 
 Accession 
   
 ID 
 
 
 Number 
 GenBank ® Description 
 NO 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 BAA32241 
   Gluconobacter oxydans  decaprenyl diphosphate 
 7 
 
 
   
 synthase 
   
 
 
 EAP81866 
   Sulfitobacter  sp. NAS-14.1 decaprenyl diphosphate 
 8 
 
 
   
 synthase 
   
 
 
 AAV93637 
   Silicibacter pomeroyi  DSS-3 decaprenyl 
 9 
 
 
   
 diphosphate synthase 
   
 
 
 EAQ04419 
   Oceanicola batsensis  HTCC2597 decaprenyl 
 10 
 
 
   
 diphosphate synthase 
   
 
 
 CAK06434 
   Rhizobium leguminosarum  bv.  viciae  3841 putative 
 11 
 
 
   
 octaprenyl-diphosphate synthase 
   
 
 
 BAB53531 
   Mesorhizobium loti  MAFF303099 octaprenyl- 
 12 
 
 
   
 diphosphate synthase 
   
 
 
 AAL41650 
   Agrobacterium tumefaciens  str. C58 octaprenyl- 
 13 
 
 
   
 diphosphate synthase 
   
 
 
 EAQ24568 
   Roseovarius  sp. 217  Geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate   
 14 
 
 
   
 synthase/Polyprenyl synthetase 
   
 
 
 ABD89877 
   Rhodopseudomonas palustris  BisB18 
 15 
 
 
   
 Farnesyltranstransferase 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Any of the proteins listed above in Table 9 could be used for expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica , to enable synthesis of CoQ 10 . More specifically, in order to express the heterologous ddsA gene in  Yarrowia  in the most efficient manner, each gene was synthesized according to the codon usage preference of  Yarrowia lipolytica  (U.S. Pat. No. 7,125,672). Thus, according to the  Yarrowia  codon usage pattern, the consensus sequence around the ATG translation initiation codon, and the general rules of RNA stability (Guhaniyogi, G. and J. Brewer,  Gene,  265(1-2):11-23 (2001)), codon-optimized ddsA genes were designed, based on each of the sequences presented above as SEQ ID NOs:7-15 and their corresponding nucleotide sequence. In addition, a mitichondria target sequence (e.g., the first 47 to 50 amino acids from the  Yarrowia  ppt1 gene encoding p-hydroxybenzoate:polyprenyl transferase [GenBank Accession No. XP — 505040; SEQ ID NO:16) was placed in the front of these bacterial genes to create a fusion protein. The synthetic ddsA fusion gene was designed to contain a NcoI site at the 5′ end and a NotI site at the 3′ end. These DNA fragments were then cloned into the corresponding sites in self-replicating plasmid pDMW359 with a FBAIN promoter and the Pex20-3′ terminator (from Example 3). 
 Based on the above methodology, the following plasmids (Table 10) were constructed, each comprising a chimeric FBAIN::synthetic fusion ppt1-ddsA::Pex20 gene construct, wherein the synthetic ddsA was codon-optimized for expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica . None of the modifications in the codon-optimized gene changed the amino acid sequence of the encoded protein (i.e., as set forth in SEQ ID NOs:7-15, respectively). The designed fusion ppt1-ddsA genes were synthesized by GenScript Corporation (Piscataway, N.J.) and individually cloned into intermediary vector pUC57 (GenBank Accession No. Y14837), prior to cloning into pDMW359 using standard methodology. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 10 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Plasmids Comprising Codon-Optimized Prenyl Diphosphate 
 
 
 Synthase Genes For Expression In Yarrowia lipolytica 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 Fusion 
 
 
   
 Plasmid 
   
 SEQ 
 
 
 Plasmid 
 SEQ ID 
   
 ID 
 
 
 Name 
 NO 
 Synthetic Fusion 
 NOs 
 
 
   
 
 
 — 
 — 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 17, 18 
 
 
   
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. BAA32241 
   
 
 
   
   
 ( Gluconobacter oxydans  ddsA), codon- 
   
 
 
   
   
 optimized for expression in  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
 
 lipolytica 
 
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 19 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 20, 21 
 
 
 Ss_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. EAP81866 ( Sulfitobacter   
   
 
 
   
   
 sp. ddsA), codon-optimized for expression  
   
 
 
   
   
 in  Yarrowia lipolytica   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 22 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 23, 24 
 
 
 Sp_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. AAV93637 ( Silicibacter   
   
 
 
   
   
   pomeroyi  ddsA), codon-optimized for  
   
 
 
   
   
 expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 25 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 26, 27 
 
 
 Ob_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. EAQ04419 ( Oceanicola   
   
 
 
   
   
   batsensis  ddsA), codon-optimized for  
   
 
 
   
   
 expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 28 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 29, 30 
 
 
 RI_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. CAK06434 ( Rhizobium   
   
 
 
   
   
   leguminosarum  ddsA), codon-optimized  
   
 
 
   
   
 for expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 31 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 32, 33 
 
 
 MI_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. BAB53531 
   
 
 
   
   
 ( Mesorhizobium loti  ddsA), codon- 
   
 
 
   
   
 optimized for expression in  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
 
 lipolytica 
 
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 34 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 35, 36 
 
 
 At_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. AAL41650 
   
 
 
   
   
 ( Agrobacterium tumefaciens  str. C58  
   
 
 
   
   
 ddsA), codon-optimized for expression in  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 Yarrowia lipolytica 
 
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 37 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 38, 39 
 
 
 Rs_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. EAQ24568 
   
 
 
   
   
 ( Roseovarius  sp. ddsA), codon-optimized  
   
 
 
   
   
 for expression in  Yarrowia lipolytica   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 40 
 Fusion of GenBank Accession No.  
 41, 42 
 
 
 Rp_ddsA 
   
 XP_505040 (N-terminus of  Yarrowia    
   
 
 
   
   
   lipolytica  ppt1) and GenBank ®  
   
 
 
   
   
 Accession No. ABD89877 
   
 
 
   
   
 ( Rhodopseudomonas palustris  ddsA),  
   
 
 
   
   
 codon-optimized for expression in  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 Yarrowia lipolytica 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Example 5 
 Construction of Various  Yarrowia lipolytica  Strains Producing ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs 
 The present Example describes various strains of  Yarrowia lipolytica  that have been engineered to produce ω-3/ω-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids [“PUFAs”]. It is contemplated that any of these  Y. lipolytica  host strains could be engineered to co-produce CoQ 10  and ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs, if a ddsA gene was simultaneously expressed (as described in Example 6, infra). 
 More specifically, a variety of  Yarrowia lipolytica  strains have been engineered by the Applicant's Assignee to produce high concentrations of various ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs. Since naturally produced PUFAs are limited to 18:2 fatty acids in this organism, all of the genetically engineered strains have been transformed to express various PUFA biosynthetic pathway genes (i.e., desaturases and elongases) of the Δ6 desaturase/Δ6 elongase PUFA pathway or the Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase PUFA pathway. 
 Summary of Representative  Yarrowia lipolytica  Strains Producing ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs 
 Although some representative strains are summarized in the Table below, the disclosure of  Yarrowia lipolytica  strains producing ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs is not limited in any way to the strains therein. Instead, all of the teachings provided in the following commonly owned and co-pending applications, are useful for development of a suitable  Yarrowia lipolytica  strain engineered to produce ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs. These specifically include the following Applicants' Assignee's co-pending patents and applications: U.S. Pat. No. 7,125,672, U.S. Pat. No. 7,189,559, U.S. Pat. No. 7,192,762, U.S. Pat. No. 7,198,937, U.S. Pat. No. 7,202,356, U.S. Pat. No. 7,214,491, U.S. Pat. No. 7,238,482, U.S. Pat. No. 7,256,033, U.S. Pat. No. 7,259,255, U.S. Pat. No. 7,264,949, U.S. Pat. No. 7,267,976, U.S. Pat. No. 7,273,746, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/985,254 and Ser. No. 10/985,691 (filed Nov. 10, 2004), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/183,664 (filed Jul. 18, 2005), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/185,301 (filed Jul. 20, 2005), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/190,750 (filed Jul. 27, 2005), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/198,975 (filed Aug. 8, 2005), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/253,882 (filed Oct. 19, 2005), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/264,784 and Ser. No. 11/264,737 (filed Nov. 1, 2005), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/265,761 (filed Nov. 2, 2005), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/601,563 and Ser. No. 11/601,564 (filed Nov. 16, 2006), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/635,258 (filed Dec. 7, 2006), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/613,420 (filed Dec. 20, 2006), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/787,772 (filed Apr. 18, 2007), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/737,772 (filed Apr. 20, 2007), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/740,298 (filed Apr. 26, 2007), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/111,237 (filed Apr. 29, 2008), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/748,629 and Ser. No. 11/748,637 (filed May 15, 2007), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/779,915 (filed Jul. 19, 2007), U.S. Pat. App. No. 60/991,266 (filed Nov. 30, 2007), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/952,243 (filed Dec. 7, 2007), U.S. Pat. App. No. 61/041,716 (filed Apr. 2, 2008), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/061,738 (filed Apr. 3, 2008), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/099,811 (filed Apr. 9, 2008), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/102,879 (filed Apr. 15, 2008), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/111,237 (filed Apr. 29, 2008), U.S. Pat. App. No. 61/055,511 (filed May 23, 2008), U.S. Pat. App. No. 61/085,482 (filed Aug. 1, 2008), U.S. Pat. App. No. 61/093,007 (filed Aug. 29, 2008), U.S. Pat. App. No. 61/098,333 (filed Sep. 19, 2008), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/244,822 (filed Oct. 3, 2008) and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/244,950 (filed Oct. 3, 2008). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 11 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lipid Profile Of Representative Yarrowia lipolytica Strains Engineered To 
 
 
 Produce ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 ATCC 
 Fatty Acid Content 
 
 
   
 Deposit 
 (As A Percent [%] of Total Fatty Acids) 
 
 
 
 
 Strain 
 Reference 
 No. 
 16:0 
 16:1 
 18:0 
 18:1 
 18:2 
 (ALA) 
 
 
   
 
 
 Wildtype 
 US 2006-0035351- 
 #76982 
 14 
 11 
 3.5 
 34.8 
 31 
 — 
 
 
 pDMW208 
 A1; WO2006/033723 
 — 
 11.9 
 8.6 
 1.5 
 24.4 
 17.8 
 — 
 
 
 pDMW208D62 
   
 — 
 16.2 
 1.5 
 0.1 
 17.8 
 22.2 
 — 
 
 
 M4 
 US 2006-0115881- 
 — 
 15 
 4 
 2 
 5 
 27 
 — 
 
 
   
 A1; WO2006/052870 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 Y2034 
 US 2006-0094092- 
 — 
 13.1 
 8.1 
 1.7 
 7.4 
 14.8 
 — 
 
 
 Y2047 
 A1; WO2006/055322 
 PTA-7186 
 15.9 
 6.6 
 0.7 
 8.9 
 16.6 
 — 
 
 
 Y2214 
   
 — 
 7.9 
 15.3 
 0 
 13.7 
 37.5 
 — 
 
 
 EU 
 US 2006-0115881- 
 — 
 19 
 10.3 
 2.3 
 15.8 
 12 
 — 
 
 
 Y2072 
 A1; WO2006/052870 
 — 
 7.6 
 4.1 
 2.2 
 16.8 
 13.9 
 — 
 
 
 Y2102 
   
 — 
 9 
 3 
 3.5 
 5.6 
 18.6 
 — 
 
 
 Y2088 
   
 — 
 17 
 4.5 
 3 
 2.5 
 10 
 — 
 
 
 Y2089 
   
 — 
 7.9 
 3.4 
 2.5 
 9.9 
 14.3 
 — 
 
 
 Y2095 
   
 — 
 13 
 0 
 2.6 
 5.1 
 16 
 — 
 
 
 Y2090 
   
 — 
 6 
 1 
 6.1 
 7.7 
 12.6 
 — 
 
 
 Y2096 
   
 PTA-7184 
 8.1 
 1 
 6.3 
 8.5 
 11.5 
 — 
 
 
 Y2201 
   
 PTA-7185 
 11 
 16.1 
 0.7 
 18.4 
 27 
 — 
 
 
 Y3000 
 US 2006-0110806- 
 PTA-7187 
 5.9 
 1.2 
 5.5 
 7.7 
 11.7 
 — 
 
 
   
 A1; WO2006/052871 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 Y4001 
 WO2008/073367 
 — 
 4.3 
 4.4 
 3.9 
 35.9 
 23 
 0 
 
 
 Y4036 
   
 — 
 7.7 
 3.6 
 1.1 
 14.2 
 32.6 
 0 
 
 
 Y4070 
   
 — 
 8 
 5.3 
 3.5 
 14.6 
 42.1 
 0 
 
 
 Y4158 
   
 — 
 3.2 
 1.2 
 2.7 
 14.5 
 30.4 
 5.3 
 
 
 Y4184 
   
 — 
 3.1 
 1.5 
 1.8 
 8.7 
 31.5 
 4.9 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 Fatty Acid Content (As A Percent [%] of Total Fatty Acids) 
 Lipid % 
 
 
 
 
   
 Strain 
 GLA 
 20:2 
 DGLA 
 ARA 
 ETA 
 EPA 
 DPA 
 DHA 
 dcw 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 Wildtype 
 0 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 pDMW208 
 25.9 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 pDMW208D62 
 34 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 M4 
 35 
 — 
 8 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2034 
 25.2 
 — 
 8.3 
 11.2 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2047 
 29.7 
 — 
 0 
 10.9 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2214 
 0 
 — 
 7.9 
 14 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 EU 
 18.7 
 — 
 5.7 
 0.2 
 3 
 10.3 
 — 
 — 
 36 
 
 
   
 Y2072 
 27.8 
 — 
 3.7 
 1.7 
 2.2 
 15 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2102 
 29.6 
 — 
 3.8 
 2.8 
 2.3 
 18.4 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2088 
 20 
 — 
 3 
 2.8 
 1.7 
 20 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2089 
 37.5 
 — 
 2.5 
 1.8 
 1.6 
 17.6 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2095 
 29.1 
 — 
 3.1 
 1.9 
 2.7 
 19.3 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y2090 
 26.4 
 — 
 6.7 
 2.4 
 3.6 
 26.6 
 — 
 — 
 22.9 
 
 
   
 Y2096 
 25 
 — 
 5.8 
 2.1 
 2.5 
 28.1 
 — 
 — 
 20.8 
 
 
   
 Y2201 
 — 
 3.3 
 3.3 
 1 
 3.8 
 9 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y3000 
 30.1 
 — 
 2.6 
 1.2 
 1.2 
 4.7 
 18.3 
 5.6 
 — 
 
 
   
 Y4001 
 — 
 23.8 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 — 
 — 
 — 
   
 
 
   
 Y4036 
 — 
 15.6 
 18.2 
 0 
 0 
 — 
 — 
 — 
   
 
 
   
 Y4070 
 — 
 6.7 
 2.4 
 11.9 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
   
 
 
   
 Y4158 
 — 
 6.2 
 3.1 
 0.3 
 3.4 
 20.5 
 — 
 — 
 27.3 
 
 
   
 Y4184 
 — 
 5.6 
 2.9 
 0.6 
 2.4 
 28.9 
 — 
 — 
 23.9 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 For fatty acid analysis,  Yarrowia lipolytica  cells were collected by centrifugation and lipids are extracted as described in Bligh, E. G. & Dyer, W. J. ( Can. J. Biochem. Physiol.,  37:911-917 (1959)). Fatty acid methyl esters [“FAMES”] were prepared by transesterification of the lipid extract with sodium methoxide (Roughan, G., and Nishida I.,  Arch. Biochem. Biophys.,  276(1):38-46 (1990)) and subsequently analyzed with a Hewlett-Packard 6890 GC fitted with a 30-m×0.25 mm (i.d.) HP-INNOWAX (Hewlett-Packard) column. The oven temperature was from 170° C. (25 min hold) to 185° C. at 3.5° C./min. 
 For direct base transesterification,  Yarrowia  culture (3 mL) was harvested, washed once in distilled water, and dried under vacuum in a Speed-Vac for 5-10 min. Sodium methoxide (100 μl of 1%) was added to the sample, and then the sample was vortexed and rocked for 20 min. After adding 3 drops of 1 M NaCl and 400 μl hexane, the sample was vortexed and spun. The upper layer was removed and analyzed by GC as described above. 
 Generation of Y4184U4 Strain to Produce EPA 
   Y. lipolytica  strain Y4184U4 was used as the host in Example 6, infra, and its construction is diagrammed in  FIG. 5 . 
 Strain Y4184U4 was derived from  Y. lipolytica    ATCC # 20362, and is capable of producing EPA via expression of a Δ9 elongase/Δ8 desaturase pathway. The strain has a Ura-phenotype and its construction is described in Example 7 of Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367, hereby incorporated herein by reference. 
 The final genotype of strain Y4184 (producing 31% EPA of total lipids) with respect to wildtype  Yarrowia lipolytica  ATCC #20362 was unknown 1-, unknown 2-, unknown 4-, unknown 5-, unknown 6-, unknown 7-, YAT1::ME3S::Pex16, EXP1::ME3S::Pex20 (2 copies), GPAT::EgD9e::Lip2, FBAINm::EgD9eS::Lip2, EXP1::EgD9eS::Lip1, FBA::EgD9eS::Pex20, YAT1::EgD9eS::Lip2, GPD::EgD9eS::Lip2, GPDIN::EgD8M::Lip1, YAT1::EgD8M::Aco, EXP1::EgD8M::Pex16, FBAINm::EgD8M::Pex20, FBAIN::EgD8M::Lip1 (2 copies), GPM/FBAIN::FmD12S::Oct, EXP1::FmD12S::Aco, YAT1::FmD12::Oct, GPD::FmD12::Pex20, EXP1::EgD5S::Pex20, YAT1::EgD5S::Aco, YAT1::Rd5S::Oct, FBAIN::EgD5::Aco, FBAINm::PaD17::Aco, EXP1::PaD17::Pex16, YAT1::PaD17S::Lip1, YAT1::YICPT1::Aco, GPD::YICPT1::Aco (wherein FmD12 is a  Fusarium moniliforme Δ 12 desaturase gene [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2005/047485]; FmD12S is a codon-optimized Δ12 desaturase gene, derived from  Fusarium moniliforme  [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2005/047485]; ME3S is a codon-optimized C 16/18  elongase gene, derived from  Mortierella alpina  [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2007/046817]; EgD9e is a  Euglena gracilis Δ 9 elongase gene [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2007/061742]; EgD9eS is a codon-optimized Δ9 elongase gene, derived from  Euglena gracilis  [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2007/061742]; EgD8M is a synthetic mutant Δ8 desaturase [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073271], derived from  Euglena gracilis  [U.S. Pat. No. 7,256,033]; EgD5 is a  Euglena gracilis  Δ5 desaturase [U.S. Pat. App. Pub. US 2007-0292924-A1]; EgD5S is a codon-optimized Δ5 desaturase gene, derived from  Euglena gracilis  [U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2007-0292924]; RD5S is a codon-optimized Δ5 desaturase, derived from  Peridinium  sp. CCMP626 [U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2007-0271632]; PaD17 is a  Pythium aphanidermatum  Δ17 desaturase [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/054565]; PaD17S is a codon-optimized Δ17 desaturase, derived from  Pythium aphanidermatum  [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/054565]; and, YICPT1 is a  Yarrowia lipolytica  diacylglycerol cholinephosphotransferase gene [Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2006/052870]). 
 In order to disrupt the Ura3 gene in strain Y4184, construct pZKUE3S (described in Table 22 of Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367 and set forth therein as SEQ ID NO:78, hereby incorporated herein by reference) was used to integrate an EXP1::ME3S::Pex20 chimeric gene into the Ura3 gene of strain Y4184 to result in strains Y4184U1 (11.2% EPA of total lipids), Y4184U2 (10.6% EPA of total lipids) and Y4184U4 (15.5% EPA of total lipids), respectively (collectively, Y4184U). 
 Example 6 
 Production of CoQ 10  in  Yarrowia lipolytica  Strains Co-Producing ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs 
 The present Example describes co-production of CoQ 10  and ω-3/ω-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids [“PUFAs”]. This was accomplished via expression of various ddsA genes in  Yarrowia lipolytica  strain Y4184U4 (Example 5). 
 Although the present Example is useful for purposes of demonstration, one skilled in the art will realize that any of the  Yarrowia lipolytica  strains listed in Example 5 (or constructed using the teachings of the cited commonly owned and co-pending applications) could be used as the host cell for transformation with an integration or expression vector comprising a chimeric ddsA gene, as described above in Example 5, and using the methodology for transformation described in Example 1. CoQ 10  would be extracted and quantified. 
 Transformation of Plasmids Comprising Synthetic ddsA Constructs Into Y4184U4 
 Plasmids pDMW359-Ss_ddsA, pDMW359-Sp_ddsA, pDMW359-Ob_ddsA, pDMW359-RI_ddsA, pDMW359-MI_ddsA, pDMW359-At_ddsA and pDMW359-Rs_ddsA (Example 4) were each individually transformed into strain Y4184U4 (Example 5), as described in Example 1. After transformation, the cells were plated onto MM plates without uracil supplementation. 
 Characterization of CoQ 10  and ω-3/ω-6 PUFA Production in Transformants 
 Strains containing expression plasmids pDMW359-Ss_ddsA, pDMW359-Sp_ddsA, pDMW359-Ob_ddsA, pDMW359-RI_ddsA, pDMW359-MI_ddsA, pDMW359-At_ddsA and pDMW359-Rs_ddsA were re-streaked onto MM plates, and then inoculated into liquid MM at 30° C. and shaken at 250 rpm/min for 2 days. The cells were collected by centrifugation, resuspended in HGM and then shaken at 250 rpm/min for 5 days. The cells were collected by centrifugation, lipids were extracted, and FAMEs were prepared by trans-esterification, and subsequently analyzed with a Hewlett-Packard 6890 GC, as described in Example 5. 
 As shown in Table 12, ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs were produced in the transformant strains. Total lipid content [“TFAs % DCW”] and concentration of a given fatty acid(s) expressed as a weight percent (wt. %) of total fatty acids [“% TFAs”] are provided; fatty acids are identified as 16:0 (palmitate), 16:1 (palmitoleic acid), 18:0 (stearic acid), 18:1 (oleic acid), 18:2 (LA), ALA, EDA, DGLA, ARA, ETrA, ETA, EPA and “other”. ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs include LA, ALA, EDA, DGLA, ARA, ETrA, ETA and EPA and account for at least 69% of the TFAs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 12 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Lipid Composition In Yarrowia lipolytica Strain Y4184U4 Transformed With Various ddsA Plasmids 
 
 
 
 
   
 % TFAs 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 18:3 
   
 20:3 
   
   
 20:4 
   
   
 
 
   
 TFAs % 
   
   
   
   
   
 (n-3) 
 20:2 
 (n-6) 
 20:4 
   
 (n-3) 
 20:5 
   
 
 
 Plasmid 
 DCW 
 16:0 
 16:1 
 18:0 
 18:1 
 18:2 
 ALA 
 EDA 
 DGLA 
 ARA 
 EtrA 
 ETA 
 EPA 
 other 
 
 
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 23 
 3.5 
 1.6 
 2.0 
 8.1 
 30.8 
 4.2 
 5.1 
 1.2 
 0.6 
 1.5 
 1.3 
 24.6 
 15.4 
 
 
 Ss_ddsA 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 25 
 4.0 
 1.7 
 2.1 
 7.7 
 32.2 
 3.8 
 5.0 
 1.3 
 0.7 
 1.4 
 1.4 
 27.4 
 11.2 
 
 
 Sp_ddsA 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 16 
 4.4 
 1.9 
 2.1 
 8.2 
 33.0 
 4.0 
 5.2 
 1.3 
 0.8 
 1.4 
 1.3 
 26.6 
 9.7 
 
 
 Ob_ddsA 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 26 
 3.9 
 1.6 
 2.1 
 7.7 
 32.8 
 3.8 
 4.9 
 1.3 
 0.7 
 1.4 
 1.4 
 26.6 
 11.9 
 
 
 Rl_ddsA 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 19 
 4.4 
 1.9 
 2.1 
 7.8 
 32.4 
 3.6 
 5.2 
 1.3 
 0.8 
 1.5 
 1.5 
 26.8 
 10.8 
 
 
 Ml_ddsA 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 23 
 4.2 
 1.9 
 2.1 
 8.1 
 32.0 
 3.8 
 5.2 
 1.3 
 0.7 
 1.5 
 1.5 
 26.5 
 11.0 
 
 
 At_ddsA 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 pDMW359- 
 21 
 4.4 
 2.0 
 2.1 
 8.2 
 31.9 
 3.8 
 5.3 
 1.3 
 0.8 
 1.5 
 1.5 
 26.1 
 11.2 
 
 
 Rs_ddsA 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 To analyze the presence of CoQ 10 , colonies were inoculated into flasks containing fermentation medium supplemented with 5% glucose. After 2 days of growth, the CoQ 10  was extracted and quantified via HPLC. The extraction protocol was based on the previously described procedure of Zahiri, H. S. et al. ( Metab. Eng.,  8(5):406-16 (2006)). Specifically, a 1 mL sample of each culture was centrifuged at 14,000 rpm for 15 sec using a bench-top centrifuge. The cell pellets were re-suspended in 400 μl of Solution I (Zymoprep II Yeast Plasmid Mini-prep Kit, Zymo Research, Orange, Calif.; Catalog #D2004) and incubated at 37° C. After 60 min, about 40 μl of 0.5 mm glass beads was added to the suspensions. The tubes were shaken with a bead beater for 5 min at the highest setting. CoQ 10  was extracted from the cell lysate with 900 μl of a hexane/propanol (5:3) mixture and then with 500 μl of hexane. Following each extraction, the hexane organic phase containing CoQ 10  was separated from the aqueous phase by centrifugation at 14,000 rpm and collected into a new tube. The hexane extract was evaporated to dryness under a stream of N 2  at room temperature. The pellets were first dissolved in 200 μl of chloroform (Sigma), then with 1800 μl of ethanol:methanol (7:3). 
 An aliquot of 10 μl was injected into a HPLC (Shimadzu 10A system) equipped with a Symmetry® C18 column (Waters Corp., Milford, Mass.). The chromatography was operated at room temperature using an isocratic solvent mixture of ethanol and methanol (70:30 v/v, Fisher Scientific, HPLC grade) as a mobile phase at a flow rate of 1 mL/min. A UV detector was used at 275 nm for the detection and quantification of CoQ 10 . Authentic standards, CoQ 9  and CoQ 10  (Sigma), were used to distinguish the corresponding peaks in the HPLC chromatograms of the experimental samples. All the samples showed the presence of the CoQ 10  peak. In addition, the mass of these peaks were confirmed to be that of CoQ 10  by mass spectrometry. 
 The above results demonstrated that ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs and CoQ 10  were co-produced in  Yarrowia lipolytica  strain Y4184U4. 
 Example 7 
 Construction of Various  Yarrowia lipolytica  Strains Producing C 40  Carotenoids 
 The present Example describes various strains of  Yarrowia lipolytica  that have been engineered to produce C 40  carotenoids. More specifically, a variety of  Y. lipolytica  strains have been engineered by the Applicant's Assignee to produce various C 40  carotenoids. Since the organism does not natively produce C 40  carotenoids, all of the genetically engineered strains have been transformed to express various C 40  carotenoid biosynthetic pathway genes (i.e., crtE, crtB, crtI, crtY, crtW and crtZ). 
 Summary of Representative  Yarrowia lipolytica  Strains Producing C 40  Carotenoids 
 Although some representative strains are summarized in the Table below, the disclosure of  Y. lipolytica  strains producing C 40  carotenoids is not limited to the strains therein. Instead, the teachings provided in the present Application, in addition to commonly owned and co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/952,243, are useful for development of a suitable  Y. lipolytica  strain engineered to produce C 40  carotenoids. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 13 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Carotenoid Profile Of Representative Yarrowia lipolytica Strains 
 
 
 Engineered To Produce C 40  Carotenoids 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 Carotenoid 
   
 
 
 Strain(s) 
 Reference 
 Produced 
 Quantification 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Yarrowia lipolytica 
 
 Example 2 of Int'l. 
 lycopene 
 — 
 
 
 strain YL5 
 App. Pub. No. WO 
   
   
 
 
   
 2008/073367 
   
   
 
 
 
 Yarrowia lipolytica 
 
 Example 3 of Int'l. 
 lycopene 
 — 
 
 
 strains YCS1001- 
 App. Pub. No. WO 
   
   
 
 
 YSC1026 
 2008/073367 
   
   
 
 
 YCS1200 series 
 Example 5 of Int'l. 
 β-carotene 
 e.g., strain YCS1201 
 
 
 of carotenoid- 
 App. Pub. No. WO 
   
 produced 15% 
 
 
 producing  Y. lipolytica   
 2008/073367 
   
 lycopene, 72% β- 
 
 
 transformants 
   
   
 carotene, 5% 
 
 
   
   
   
 zeaxanthin 
 
 
 YCS1300 series 
 Example 5 of Int'l. 
 β-carotene 
 e.g., strain YCS1302 
 
 
 of carotenoid- 
 App. Pub. No. WO 
   
 produced 40% 
 
 
 producing  Y. lipolytica   
 2008/073367 
   
 lycopene, 53% β- 
 
 
 transformants 
   
   
 carotene 
 
 
 YCS3700 series 
 Example 6 of Int'l. 
 zeaxanthin 
 e.g., strain YCS3701 
 
 
 of carotenoid- 
 App. Pub. No. WO 
   
 produced 6% 
 
 
 producing  Y. lipolytica   
 2008/073367 
   
 zeaxanthin; YCS3702 
 
 
 transformants 
   
   
 produced 4% 
 
 
   
   
   
 zeaxanthin 
 
 
 YCS4000 series 
 Example 6 of Int'l. 
 canthaxanthin 
 e.g., strain YCS4002 
 
 
 of carotenoid- 
 App. Pub. No. WO 
   
 produced 5% 
 
 
 producing  Y. lipolytica   
 2008/073367 
   
 canthaxanthin 
 
 
 transformants 
   
   
   
 
 
 YCS4100 series 
 Example 6 of Int'l. 
 zeaxanthin 
 e.g., strain YCS4101 
 
 
 of carotenoid- 
 App. Pub. No. WO 
   
 produced 6% zeaxanthin 
 
 
 producing  Y. lipolytica   
 2008/073367 
   
   
 
 
 transformants 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Example 8 (Prophetic) 
 Production of CoQ 10  in  Yarrowia lipolytica  Strains Co-Producing C 40  Carotenoids and ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs 
 Any  Y. lipolytica  strains producing ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs, as described in Example 5, maybe engineered to also co-produce CoQ 10  and C 40  carotenoids. 
 Specifically,  Yarrowia lipolytica  strains engineered to produce high concentrations of various ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs could be transformed with e.g., integration vector pYCRTEBI (described in Example 2 of Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367, and set forth therein as SEQ ID NO:12) and optionally integration vector pYPS108 (described in Example 5 of Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367, and set forth therein as SEQ ID NO:36) and optionally integration vector pYPS127 (described in Example 6 of Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367, and set forth therein as SEQ ID NO:43) and/or pYPS128 (described in Example 6 of Int'l. App. Pub. No. WO 2008/073367, and set forth therein as SEQ ID NO:44) to produce a strain co-producing ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs and C 40  carotenoids. Subsequently, the resulting transformant cells could be used as host for transformation with an integration or expression vector comprising a chimeric ddsA gene, as described herein, to thereby enable co-production of CoQ 10 , ω-3/ω-6 PUFAs, and C 40  carotenoids. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
