
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
 This application is the National Phase of PCT/JP2014/051402, filed Jan. 23, 2014, which claims priority to Japanese Application No. 2013-011536, filed Jan. 24, 2013 and Japanese Application No. 2013-011538, filed Jan. 24, 2013. 
 TECHNICAL FIELD 
 The present invention relates to a microorganism having a carbon dioxide fixation cycle introduced thereinto and a method of producing a substance using the microorganism. 
 BACKGROUND ART 
 Acetyl-CoA is one of significantly important intermediates in metabolic pathways of microorganisms. Various metabolites are produced via acetyl-CoA. Well-known examples of such substances produced via acetyl-CoA include amino acids such as L-glutamic acid, L-glutamine, L-proline, L-arginine, L-leucine, and L-isoleucine; organic acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, caproic acid, citric acid, 3-hydroxybutyric acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 3-aminoisobutyric acid, 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid, methacrylic acid, and poly-3-hydroxybutyric acid; alcohols such as isopropyl alcohol, ethanol, and butanol; acetone; and polyglutamic acid. 
 In most microorganisms, acetyl-CoA is produced using a sugar such as glucose as a carbon source. The sugar is first converted into pyruvate via a metabolic pathway called the glycolytic pathway, such as the Embden-Meyerhof pathway, the Entner-Doudoroff pathway, or the pentose phosphate pathway. Subsequently, pyruvate is converted into acetyl-CoA by the action of the enzymes pyruvate decarboxylase, pyruvate formate-lyase, and the like. In this process, since carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and formate are generated as byproducts, not all of the carbons derived from the sugar are fixed as acetyl-CoA. Therefore, several studies have been carried out with the aim of achieving re-fixation of CO 2  in order to increase the yield of acetyl-CoA. 
 In microorganisms, there are several known pathways for fixing carbon dioxide as a carbon source (Applied and Environmental Microbiology, 2011; 77(6), 1925-1936). Specific examples of the pathways include the Calvin-Benson cycle, the reductive TCA cycle, the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, the 3-hydroxypropionate cycle, and the 4-hydroxybutyrate cycle. The Calvin-Benson cycle is a CO 2  fixation pathway existing in plants and photosynthetic bacteria, and comprising about 12 enzymes. In the Calvin-Benson cycle, CO 2  is fixed by ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (RubisCO) and, ultimately, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate is produced. The reductive TCA cycle is found in microaerophilic bacteria and anaerobic bacteria including green sulfur bacteria, and comprises 11 enzymes. The reductive TCA cycle comprises the CO 2  fixation enzymes acetyl-CoA carboxylase and 2-oxoglutarate synthase which requires ferredoxin as a coenzyme. In the reductive TCA cycle, pyruvate is produced from CO 2  by the reverse reaction of the usual TCA cycle. The Wood-Ljungdahl pathway is found in anaerobic microorganisms such as acetic acid-producing bacteria, and comprises 9 enzymes. In the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, CO 2  and formate bound to a coenzyme are reduced by formate dehydrogenase, CO dehydrogenase, etc., and, ultimately converted into acetyl-CoA. The 3-hydroxypropionate cycle is found in  Chloroflexus  bacteria and the like, and comprises 13 enzymes. In the 3-hydroxypropionate cycle, CO 2  is fixed by the action of acetyl-CoA (propionyl-CoA) carboxylase, and acetyl-CoA is produced via malonyl-CoA and the like. The 4-hydroxybutyrate cycle exists in archaebacteria and the like. In the 4-hydroxybutyrate cycle, CO 2  is fixed by the actions of pyruvate synthase, acetyl-CoA (propionyl-CoA) carboxylase, and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, whereby acetyl-CoA is produced via 4-hydroxybutyryl CoA and the like. 
 Several approaches of producing a useful substance by introducing a carbon dioxide fixation pathway to a microorganism that produces a useful compound have been proposed. For example, International Publication Nos. WO 2009/094485 and WO 2010/071697 disclose approaches for producing acetyl-CoA from CO 2  by using a microorganism to which a pathway similar to the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway of acetic acid bacteria has been introduced. WO 2009/046929 discloses an approach for producing lactic acid from CO 2  by using a microorganism to which hydrogenase and tetrahydrofolate lyase have been introduced. WO 2011/099006 proposes a cycle in which CO 2  is fixed via a carbon dioxide fixation reaction into acetyl-CoA or a malonyl-CoA reduction reaction. German Patent Application Laid-open No. 102007059248 proposes production of acetyl-CoA via a pathway similar to the 4-hydroxybutyrate cycle. 
 SUMMARY OF INVENTION 
 Technical Problem 
 However, known carbon dioxide fixation cycles are not necessarily efficient from the viewpoints of CO 2  fixation and production of useful compounds derived from acetyl-CoA. For example, in the Calvin-Benson cycle, which is a well-known carbon dioxide fixation cycle found in nature, RubisCO working for carbon dioxide fixation is not a very efficient enzyme, since RubisCO has a low reaction rate and causes side reactions such as oxidative degradation (Journal of Bioscience and Bioengineering 2002; 94(6): 497-505). In the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway and the pathways described in WO 2009/094485, WO 2010/071697, WO 2009/046929, a pathway for reducing CO 2  into CO or formate is included. However, it is often the case that an enzyme catalyzing this kind of strong reduction reaction only works under a reductive environment, and consequently, such a reduction reaction hardly occurs under normal conditions. Moreover, it is difficult to introduce this enzyme into microorganisms other than strictly anaerobic microorganisms. In the reductive TCA cycle, the reduction reaction by pyruvate synthase and the reduction reaction by 2-oxoglutarate synthase require a strong reduction power using ferredoxin as an electron acceptor, and the reactions do not proceed easily. The 4-hydroxybutyrate cycle, 3-hydroxypropionate cycle, and the pathways described in WO 2009/046929 and WO 2011/099006 utilize reduction reactions of carboxylic acid or a (thio)ester thereof, such as reduction of succinyl-CoA or reduction of malonyl-CoA. However, it is generally difficult to carry out this kind of reaction as an enzymatic reaction, and it is desirable to avoid including this kind of reaction in fermentation pathways where possible (Nature, 2008; 451: 86-89; Nature Chemical Biology, 2011; 7: 445-452). The 4-hydroxybutyrate cycle proceeds via a dehydration reaction such as dehydration of 4-hydroxybutyryl CoA or dehydration of 3-hydroxypropionate, and has the disadvantage that, in water, this kind of dehydration reaction often competes with the reverse reaction (hydration). In the 4-hydroxybutyrate cycle, the 3-hydroxypropionate cycle, and the reductive TCA cycle, the acetyl-CoA produced is converted into other substances within the cycles by the action of malonyl-CoA synthase or pyruvate synthase. Therefore, these cycles are not necessarily efficient in terms of acetyl-CoA production. 
 When attempting to produce a certain substance by introducing the cycles described above to a microorganism, it is necessary to consider the number of enzymes constituting the cycle and the number of enzymatic activities to be newly imparted. When the number of enzymes constituting the cycle or the number of enzymatic activities to be newly imparted increases, construction and regulation of the cycle become more difficult as well as the burden on the microorganism increases. For example, in order to introduce the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway to  Escherichia coli , at least 9 genes are required to be introduced. It would practically be a very difficult task to construct a substance-producing pathway by introducing so many genes in a controllable manner. It would clearly be advantageous to construct a cycle that includes a small number of enzymes by introducing a small number of genes, in terms of constructing the cycle as well as in terms of combining it with an intrinsic substance production pathway of the microorganism. 
 Accordingly, in order to fix CO 2  and convert it into acetyl-CoA, it would be preferable that (1) each enzyme constituting the pathway has a sufficiently high activity; (2) the cycle does not include an enzyme that consumes acetyl-CoA; and (3) the cycle has a simple configuration with a small number of newly imparted enzymes. However, none of the cycles for producing acetyl-CoA from CO 2  reported so far satisfies all of the conditions (1) to (3), and feasibility was low. In fact, there have been almost no actual examples of constructing a carbon dioxide fixation cycle by imparting an enzymatic activity as proposed in the above references, to an industrially-usable microorganism, converting CO 2  into acetyl-CoA, and further converting the acetyl-CoA to a useful compound. 
 The invention has been made under the above circumstances. 
 An object of a first invention is to provide a microorganism useful for efficient production of acetyl-CoA using carbon dioxide. In addition, another object of a first invention is to provide a method of producing acetyl-CoA and a useful metabolite derived from acetyl-CoA using the microorganism in high yield. 
 An object of a second invention is to provide a microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or a microorganism belonging to genus  Cupriavidus  that can efficiently convert carbon dioxide into a useful metabolite via acetyl-CoA. In addition, another object of a second invention is to provide a method of producing a useful metabolite using the microorganism. 
 Solution to Problem 
 The first invention, capable of solving the above problem, includes the following aspects. 
 [A1] An acetyl-CoA producing microorganism including an acetyl-CoA production cycle obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and hydroxypyruvate reductase, to a microorganism that does not have any of the following (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e): 
 (a) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate; 
 (b) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate; 
 (c) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA; 
 (d) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate; or 
 (e) at least one selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, 
 the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism being obtained without imparting any of (a), (b), (c), or (d) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a), (b), (c), or (d) even if one or more of (a), (b), (c), or (d) is imparted thereto, 
 wherein, in the microorganism: at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of pyruvate kinase, pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, malate dehydrogenase, malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, hydroxypyruvate isomerase, hydroxypyruvate reductase, glycerate 2-kinase, glycerate 3-kinase, phosphoglycerate mutase, and enolase, is enhanced; at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of a malic enzyme and fumarate reductase is inactivated or reduced; or any combination thereof. 
 [A2] An acetyl-CoA producing microorganism including an acetyl-CoA production cycle obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and hydroxypyruvate reductase, to a microorganism that does not have any of the following (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e): 
 (a) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate; 
 (b) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate; 
 (c) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA; 
 (d) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate; or 
 (e) at least one selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, 
 the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism being obtained without imparting any of (a), (b), (c), or (d) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a), (b), (c), and (d) even if one or more of (a), (b), (c), or (d) is imparted thereto, 
 wherein, in the microorganism, at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of pyruvate kinase, pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, malate dehydrogenase, malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, hydroxypyruvate isomerase, hydroxypyruvate reductase, glycerate 2-kinase, glycerate 3-kinase, phosphoglycerate mutase, and enolase is enhanced. 
 [A3] The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to [A1] or [A2], wherein enzymatic activities of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase are imparted. 
 [A4] The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A3], wherein enzymatic activities of 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase and glycerate 3-kinase are enhanced. 
 [A5] The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according any one of [A1] to [A4], wherein the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism includes an acetyl-CoA production cycle wherein: 
 phosphoenolpyruvate or pyruvate is converted to oxaloacetate; 
 oxaloacetate is converted to 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate by malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, and glyoxylate carboligase; 
 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate is converted to 2-phosphoglycerate; and 
 2-phosphoglycerate is converted to phosphoenolpyruvate. 
 [A6] The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A5], wherein the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism includes an acetyl-CoA production cycle including the following (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m): 
 (f) at least one selected from the group consisting of: pyruvate kinase and pyruvate carboxylase; phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase; and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase; 
 (g) malate dehydrogenase; 
 (h) malate thiokinase; 
 (i) malyl-CoA lyase; 
 (j) glyoxylate carboligase; 
 (k) at least one selected from the group consisting of: 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase; and hydroxypyruvate isomerase and hydroxypyruvate reductase; 
 (l) at least one selected from the group consisting of: glycerate 2-kinase; and glycerate 3-kinase and phosphoglycerate mutase; and 
 (m) enolase. 
 [A7] The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A6], wherein the microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), is a microorganism belonging to Enterobacteriaceae or a microorganism belonging to coryneform bacteria. 
 [A8] The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A7], wherein the microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), is an  Escherichia  bacterium or a  Pantoea  bacterium belonging to Enterobacteriaceae, or is a  Corynebacterium  bacterium belonging to coryneform bacteria. 
 [A9] A method of producing acetyl-CoA, the method including: a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A8] while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material, and a collection step of collecting an intended product obtained by the contacting. 
 [A10] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to [A9], further including a supply step of supplying at least one selected from the group consisting of a carbonate ion, a bicarbonate ion, carbon dioxide gas, and a reductant, to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [A11] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to [A9] or [A10], further including a gas supply step of collecting a gas that contains carbon dioxide generated by the culturing and supplying the gas to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [A12] A method of producing a metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate, including: a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A8] while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material, and a collection step of collecting the metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate obtained by the contact. 
 [A13] The method of producing a metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate according to [A12], further including a supply step of supplying at least one selected from the group consisting of a carbonate ion, a bicarbonate ion, carbon dioxide gas, and a reductant, to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [A14] The method of producing a metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate according to [A12] or [A13], further including a gas supply step of collecting a gas that contains carbon dioxide generated by the culturing and supplying the gas to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [A15] The method of producing a metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate according to any one of [A12] to [A14], in which the metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate is isopropyl alcohol, acetone, or glutamic acid. 
 [A16] A method of producing acetyl-CoA, including: 
 a culture step of culturing an acetyl-CoA producing microorganism including an acetyl-CoA production cycle obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and hydroxypyruvate reductase, to a microorganism that does not have any of the following (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e): 
 (a) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate; 
 (b) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate; 
 (c) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA; 
 (d) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate; or 
 (e) at least one selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, 
 the acetyl-CoA producing microoranism being obtained without imparting any of (a), (b), (c), or (d) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a), (b), (c), or (d) even if one or more of (a), (b), (c), or (d) is imparted thereto; and 
 a supply step of supplying at least one selected from the group consisting of a carbonate ion or a bicarbonate ion with a total supply amount of 150 mmol/L or more, carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 100 μm or more, and sodium sulfite with a total supply amount of from 0.01 g/l to 50 g/L, to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [A17] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to [A16], further including a gas supply step of collecting a gas that contains carbon dioxide generated by the culturing and supplying the gas to the culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [A18] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to [A16] or [A17], wherein the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism includes an acetyl-CoA production cycle in which phosphoenolpyruvate or pyruvate is converted to oxaloacetate, oxaloacetate is converted to 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate by malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, and glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate is converted to 2-phosphoglycerate, and 2-phosphoglycerate is converted to phosphoenolpyruvate. 
 [A19] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to any one of [A16] to [A18], wherein the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism includes an acetyl-CoA production cycle including the following (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l), and (m): 
 (f) at least one selected from the group consisting of: pyruvate kinase and pyruvate carboxylase; phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase; and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase; 
 (g) malate dehydrogenase; 
 (h) malate thiokinase; 
 (i) malyl-CoA lyase; 
 (j) glyoxylate carboligase; 
 (k) at least one selected from the group consisting of: 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase; and hydroxypyruvate isomerase and hydroxypyruvate reductase; 
 (l) at least one selected from the group consisting of: glycerate 2-kinase; and glycerate 3-kinase and phosphoglycerate mutase; and 
 (m) enolase. 
 [A20] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to any one of [A16] to [A19], wherein the microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), is a microorganism belonging to Enterobacteriaceae or a microorganism belonging to coryneform bacteria. 
 [A21] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to any one of [A16] to [A20], wherein the microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), is an  Escherichia  bacterium or a  Pantoea  bacterium belonging to Enterobacteriaceae, or is a  Corynebacterium  bacterium belonging to coryneform bacteria. 
 [A22] A method of producing isopropyl alcohol, including allowing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism to produce isopropyl alcohol, using, as an intermediate, acetyl-CoA produced by the method of producing acetyl-CoA according to any one of [A16] to [A21]. 
 [A23] A method of producing acetone, including allowing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism to produce acetone, using, as an intermediate, acetyl-CoA produced by the method of producing acetyl-CoA according to any one of [A16] to [A21]. 
 [A24] A method of producing glutamic acid, including allowing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism to produce glutamic acid, using, as an intermediate, acetyl-CoA produced by the method of producing acetyl-CoA according to any one of [A16] to [A21]. 
 [A25] A method of producing isopropyl alcohol including: a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A8] while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material, and a collection step of collecting the isopropyl alcohol obtained by the contacting. 
 [A26] A method of producing acetone including: a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A8] while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material, and a collection step of collecting the acetone obtained by the contacting. 
 [A27] A method of producing glutamic acid including: a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to any one of [A1] to [A8] while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material, and a collection step of collecting the glutamic acid obtained by the contacting. 
 The second invention to solve the above problem is as follows. 
 [B1] A microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, to a microorganism that does not have any of the following (a2), (b2), (c2), (d2) or (e2): 
 (a2) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate; 
 (b2) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate; 
 (c2) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA; 
 (d2) a carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate; or 
 (e2) at least one selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, 
 the microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  being obtained without imparting any of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) even if one or more of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) is imparted thereto. 
 [B2] The microorganism according to [B1], including an ability to produce acetyl-CoA. 
 [B3] The microorganism according to [B1] or [B2], the microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  being obtained by further imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and hydroxypyruvate reductase. 
 [B4] The microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B3], including an acetyl-CoA production cycle wherein: 
 phosphoenolpyruvate or pyruvate is converted to oxaloacetate; 
 oxaloacetate is converted to 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate by malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, and glyoxylate carboligase; 
 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate is converted to 2-phosphoglycerate; and 
 2-phosphoglycerate is converted to phosphoenolpyruvate. 
 [B5] The microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B4], including an acetyl-CoA production cycle including the following (f2), (g2), (h2), (i2), (j2), (k2), (l2), and (m2): 
 (f2) at least one selected from the group consisting of: pyruvate kinase and pyruvate carboxylase; phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase; and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase; 
 (g2) malate dehydrogenase; 
 (h2) malate thiokinase; 
 (i2) malyl-CoA lyase; 
 (j2) glyoxylate carboligase; 
 (k2) at least one selected from the group consisting of: 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase; and hydroxypyruvate isomerase and hydroxypyruvate reductase; 
 (l2) at least one selected from the group consisting of: glycerate 2-kinase; and glycerate 3-kinase and phosphoglycerate mutase; and 
 (m2) enolase. 
 [B6] The microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B5], including a cycle including: 
 at least one enzymatic reaction selected from the group consisting of the following (a3) and (b3); 
 the following enzymatic reactions (c3), (d3), (e3), (f3), and (g3); and 
 at least one selected from the group consisting of the following enzymatic reaction (h3), the following enzymatic reactions (i3), (j3), (k3) and (n3), and the following enzymatic reactions (i3), (j3), (l3), (m3) and (n3): 
 (a3) an enzymatic reaction from phosphoenolpyruvate to oxaloacetate; 
 (b3) an enzymatic reaction from pyruvate to oxaloacetate; 
 (c3) an enzymatic reaction from oxaloacetate to malate; 
 (d3) an enzymatic reaction from malate to malyl-CoA; 
 (e3) an enzymatic reaction from malyl-CoA to glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA; 
 (f3) an enzymatic reaction from glyoxylate to glycine; 
 (g3) an enzymatic reaction from glycine to serine; 
 (h3) an enzymatic reaction from serine to pyruvate; 
 (i3) an enzymatic reaction from serine to 3-hydroxypyruvate; 
 (j3) an enzymatic reaction from 3-hydroxypyruvate to glycerate; 
 (k3) an enzymatic reaction from glycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate; 
 (l3) an enzymatic reaction from glycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate; 
 (m3) an enzymatic reaction from 3-phosphoglycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate; and 
 (n3) an enzymatic reaction from 2-phosphoglycerate to phosphoenolpyruvate. 
 [B7] The microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B6], including: 
 at least one enzyme selected from the group consisting of the following (a4) and (b4); 
 the following enzymes (c4), (d4), (e4), (f4), and (g4); and 
 at least one selected from the group consisting of the following enzyme (h4), the following enzymes (i4), (j4), (k4), and (n4), and the following enzymes (i4), (j4), (l4), (m4) and (n4): 
 (a4) at least one selected from the group consisting of pyruvate kinase and pyruvate carboxylase; phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase; and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase; 
 (b4) pyruvate carboxylase; 
 (c4) malate dehydrogenase; 
 (d4) malate thiokinase; 
 (e4) malyl-CoA lyase; 
 (f4) glycine transaminase; 
 (g4) a glycine cleavage system and serine hydroxymethyltransferase; 
 (h4) serine dehydratase; 
 (i4) serine transaminase; 
 (j4) hydroxypyruvate reductase; 
 (k4) glycerate 2-kinase; 
 (l4) glycerate 3-kinase; 
 (m4) phosphoglycerate mutase; and 
 (n4) enolase. 
 [B8] The microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B7], wherein the microorganism that does not have any of (a2), (b2), (c2), (d2), or (e2) is  Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus terreus , or  Cupriavidus necator.    
 [B9] A method of producing acetyl-CoA including: a culture step of culturing the microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B8] while contacting the microorganism with a carbon source material, and a collection step of collecting an intended product obtained by the contacting. 
 [B10] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to [B9], further including a supply step of supplying at least one selected from the group consisting of a carbonate ion, a bicarbonate ion, carbon dioxide gas, and a reductant, to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [B11] The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to [B9] or [B10], further including a gas supply step of collecting a gas that contains carbon dioxide generated by the culturing and supplying the gas to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 [B12] A method of producing citric acid, including producing citric acid from a carbon source material using the microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B8]. 
 [B13] A method of producing itaconic acid, including producing itaconic acid from a carbon source material using the microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B8]. 
 [B14] A method of producing (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid, including producing (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid from a carbon source material using the microorganism according to any one of [B1] to [B8]. 
 Advantageous Effects of Invention 
 According to the first invention, a microorganism useful for efficient production of acetyl-CoA using carbon dioxide can be provided. According to the first invention, a method of producing acetyl-CoA or a useful metabolite of acetyl-CoA using the microorganism in high yield can also be provided. 
 According to the second invention, a microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or a microorganism belonging to genus  Cupriavidus  that can efficiently convert carbon dioxide into a useful metabolite via acetyl-CoA can be provided. According to the second invention, a method of producing a useful metabolite using the microorganism can be provided. 
 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
   FIG. 1  is a cycle diagram for illustrating the outline of the carbon dioxide fixation cycle according to the first invention (that is, acetyl-CoA production cycle). 
   FIG. 2  is a pathway diagram for illustrating the outline of the glycine pathway according to the second invention. 
 
 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS 
 Hereinbelow, an embodiment of the invention is described. It should be understood that the following description and examples are provided only to exemplify the present invention, and the scope of the invention is not limited to the following description and examples. 
 The term “process” as used herein encompasses not only a separate process but also a process that cannot be clearly distinguished from other processes as long as the desired effect of the process is obtained therefrom. 
 In this specification, each numerical range specified using “(from) . . . to . . . ” represents a range including the numerical values noted before and after “to” as the minimum value and the maximum value, respectively. 
 Furthermore, when two or more substances, each corresponding to a particular component of a composition, are present, the amount of the particular component in the composition mentioned in the present invention means the total amount of the two or more substances present in the composition, unless otherwise specified. 
 First Invention 
 An acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the first invention is a microorganism including an acetyl-CoA production cycle obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and hydroxypyruvate reductase, to a microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e): 
 the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism being obtained without imparting any of (a), (b), (c), or (d) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a), (b), (c), or (d) even if one or more of (a), (b), (c), or (d) is imparted thereto, 
 wherein, in the microorganism: at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of pyruvate kinase, pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, malate dehydrogenase, malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, hydroxypyruvate isomerase, hydroxypyruvate reductase, glycerate 2-kinase, glycerate 3-kinase, phosphoglycerate mutase, and enolase, is enhanced; at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of a malic enzyme and fumarate reductase is inactivated or reduced; or any combination thereof. 
 (a) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate. 
 (b) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate. 
 (c) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA. 
 (d) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate. 
 (e) At least one selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase. 
 The microorganism according to the first invention, to which a predetermined enzymatic activity is imparted, has a carbon dioxide fixation cycle in which CO 2  generated during carbohydrate metabolism or CO 2  supplied from outside can be converted into acetyl-CoA. Furthermore, the microorganism according to the first invention, in which a predetermined enzymatic activity is enhanced, and/or a predetermined enzymatic activity is inactivated or reduced, can efficiently convert CO 2  into acetyl-CoA. 
 An example of the acetyl-CoA production method according to the first invention is a method of producing acetyl-CoA in which CO 2  can be efficiently converted into acetyl-CoA by use of the microorganism according to the first invention. 
 Another example of the acetyl-CoA production method according to the first invention is a method of producing acetyl-CoA, including: 
 a culture step of culturing an acetyl-CoA producing microorganism including an acetyl-CoA production cycle obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and hydroxypyruvate reductase, to a microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) described above, 
 the acetyl-CoA producing microoranism being obtained without imparting any of (a), (b), (c), or (d) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a), (b), (c), or (d) even if one or more of (a), (b), (c), or (d) is imparted thereto; and 
 a supply step of supplying at least one selected from the group consisting of a carbonate ion or a bicarbonate ion with a total supply amount of 150 mmol/L or more, carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 100 μm or more, and sodium sulfite with a total supply amount of from 0.01 g/l to 50 g/L, to a culture medium used for the culturing. 
 According to another example, acetyl-CoA can be efficiently produced using the microorganism, in which the carbon dioxide fixation cycle is constructed, by supplying at least one selected from the group consisting of a carbonate ion, a bicarbonate ion, carbon dioxide gas, and sodium sulfite, to a culture medium. 
 By using the microorganism or the production method according to the first invention, or additionally imparting a predetermined enzymatic activity to the microorganism, acetyl-CoA and useful metabolites derived from acetyl-CoA (such as isopropyl alcohol, ethanol, acetone, citric acid, itaconic acid, acetic acid, butyric acid, (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 3-aminoisobutyric acid, 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid, methacrylic acid, (poly)glutamic acid, glutamine, arginine, ornithine, citrulline, leucine, isoleucine, or proline) can be efficiently produced. 
 Second Invention 
 A microorganism according to the second invention is a microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, to a microorganism that does not have any of (a2), (b2), (c2), (d2) or (e2), 
 the microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  being obtained without imparting any of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) even if one or more of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) is imparted thereto. 
 (a2) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle having an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate. 
 (b2) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle having an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate. 
 (c2) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle having an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA. 
 (d2) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle having an enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate. 
 (e2) At least one selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase. 
 The microorganism according to the second invention has a pathway including a predetermined enzymatic action, and therefore CO 2  generated during carbohydrate metabolism or CO 2  supplied from outside can be efficiently fixed. Furthermore, the microorganism according to the second invention can efficiently convert CO 2  into acetyl-CoA. 
 The acetyl-CoA production method according to the second invention is a method of producing acetyl-CoA in which CO 2  can be efficiently converted into acetyl-CoA by use of the microorganism according to the second invention. 
 By using the microorganism or the production method according to the second invention, or additionally imparting a predetermined enzymatic activity to the microorganism, acetyl-CoA and useful metabolites derived from acetyl-CoA (such as citric acid, itaconic acid, (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid, proline, leucine, isoleucine, valine, arginine, citrulline, ornithine, acetic acid, (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid, itaconic acid, citric acid, butyric acid, polyglutamic acid, 4-aminobutyric acid, 4-hydroxybutyric acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid, or 3-aminoisobutyric acid) can be efficiently produced. 
 Hereinbelow, the meaning of the term used in the specification and the invention is described. 
 The term “cycle” as used herein refers to a pathway which starts from any one substance on the pathway, and through which the substance is converted into another substance, and eventually converted into the same substance as the starting substance. 
 The term “pathway” as used herein refers to a series of reactions composed of enzymatic reactions and/or spontaneous chemical reactions in a fermentor. The pathway may be a cyclic pathway or a non-cyclic pathway. Therefore, the carbon dioxide fixation pathway encompasses the carbon dioxide fixation cycle. 
 The “carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) fixation” in the invention refers to conversion of CO 2  generated in carbohydrate metabolism and/or CO 2  supplied from outside into an organic compound. The CO 2  may be HCO 3   − . Here, “carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) fixation” may also be referred to as “carbon dioxide fixation”. 
 The “enzyme” in the invention includes a “factor” that exhibits no enzymatic activity by itself, unless otherwise specified. 
 The term “inactivation” of an enzymatic activity in the invention refers to a condition in which the activity of the enzyme as measured by any existing measurement system is 1/10 th  or less of the activity in the microorganism before inactivation, assuming that the activity in the microorganism before inactivation is 100. 
 The “reduction” of an enzymatic activity in the invention means a condition in which the activity of the enzyme is significantly reduced when a gene encoding the enzyme is processed using genetic recombination technique, as compared to the activity of the enzyme before such processing. 
 The “enhancement” of an enzymatic activity in the invention broadly means that the an enzymatic activity in a microorganism becomes higher after enhancement compared to the enzymatic activity before enhancement. The method for the enhancement is not particularly limited as long as the activity of an enzyme possessed by a microorganism is enhanced. Examples thereof include enhancement by introduction of an enzyme gene into the cell from outside the cell, enhancement by augmented expression of an enzyme gene in the cell, and any combination thereof. 
 Specific examples of enhancement by introduction of an enzyme gene into the cell from outside the cell include: introducing a gene encoding an enzyme having a higher activity than that of an intrinsic enzyme of a host into the host cell from outside the cell using a genetic recombination technique, thereby adding the enzymatic activity of the introduced enzyme gene or substituting the introduced enzymatic activity for the enzymatic activity that the host originally possesses; increasing the number of enzyme genes that the host intrinsically has or the number of enzyme genes introduced into the cell from outside the cell; and any combination thereof. 
 Specific examples of enhancement by augmented expression of an enzyme gene in the cell include: introducing a base sequence that enhances the expression of an enzyme gene into the host cell from outside the cell; enhancing the expression of the enzyme gene by augmenting the promoter activity of an enzyme gene that the host originally possesses on the genome; enhancing the expression of the enzyme gene by the substitution of another promoter for the promoter of an enzyme gene that the host possesses on the genome; and any combination thereof. 
 The “imparting” of an enzymatic activity in the invention broadly means the provision of the activity of an intended enzyme by introducing an enzyme gene from outside into the cell of the microorganism that does not exhibit the intended enzymatic activity. The method of imparting an activity is not particularly limited as long as the intended enzymatic activity can be imparted to a microorganism, and the imparting can be carried out using a genetic recombination technique. Specific examples thereof include transformation with a plasmid harboring an enzyme gene, introduction of an enzyme gene into the genome, and any combination thereof. The enzyme gene to be introduced may be either homologous or heterologous to that of the host cell. 
 The “imparting” of an enzymatic activity involved in a substance metabolic cycle or pathway means that the substance metabolic cycle or pathway is functionally constructed as a result of the imparting of the enzymatic activity, and the imparting method can be selected in accordance with the host. 
 In the present specification, “exhibits none of the functions” of the carbon dioxide fixation cycle “even though imparted” means that the carbon dioxide fixation cycle does not exhibit function even when a relevant enzymatic activity is imparted by introducing an enzyme gene from outside to a microorganism that does not exhibit the relevant enzymatic activity. That “the carbon dioxide fixation cycle does not function” can be confirmed indirectly, for example, by a label originating from CO 2  being not detected in a metabolite in the cycle or in a substance derived from the metabolite in a test using labeled CO 2 , or by an increase in the yield of a substance derived from a metabolite in the cycle per sugar consumption being not detected. 
 The promoter that may be used for “enhancing” or “imparting” of an enzymatic activity is not particularly limited as long as the promoter allows the gene expression, and a constitutive promoter or an inducible promoter may be used. 
 Whether or not the microorganism has the intended enzyme gene can be determined with reference to, for example, the gene information of respective strains registered in KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; http://www.genome.jp/kegg/) or NCBI (National Center for Biotechnology Information; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/). In the invention, only the gene information of respective strains registered in KEGG or NCBI is used. 
 Methods for preparation of a genomic DNA necessary to introduce a gene from outside the cell into the cell, cleavage and ligation of DNA, transformation, PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction), the design and synthesis of oligonucleotides to be used as primers, etc. may be carried out by usual methods well known to those skilled in the art. These methods are described in “Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual, Second Edition”, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (1989), etc. 
 The expression such as “by genetic recombination technique” in the invention encompasses any alteration to the base sequence caused by the insertion of another DNA into a base sequence of a native gene, substitution or deletion of a certain site of a gene, or any combinations thereof. For example, the alteration may be an alteration resulting from a mutation. 
 In the invention, the microorganism in which the activity of a factor or an enzyme is inactivated refers to a microorganism in which the native activity of the factor or an enzyme is impaired by a certain method. Such microorganism can be generated by, for example, disrupting a gene encoding the factor or the enzyme (gene disruption). 
 Examples of the gene disruption in the invention include insertion of another DNA into the gene, and introduction of a mutation to the base sequence by substitution or deletion of a certain part of the gene, so as to prevent the function of the gene from being exerted. As a result of the gene disruption, for example, the gene becomes unable to be transcribed into an mRNA and thus the protein is not translated. Alternatively, due to incompleteness of the transcribed mRNA, the amino acid sequence of the translated protein is mutated or deleted, and, therefore, the intrinsic functions thereof become unable to be exerted. 
 The gene disruption mutant may be produced by any method as long as a disruption mutant in which an enzyme or protein is not expressed can be obtained. Various methods for gene disruption have been reported (natural breeding, addition of a mutagen, UV irradiation, radiation irradiation, random mutagenesis, insertion or transposition of transposons, or site-directed gene disruption). Gene disruption by homologous recombination is preferable due to its ability to disrupt only a specific gene. Methods of gene disruption by homologous recombination are described in Journal of Bacteriology, 1985; 161(3): 1219-1221, Journal of Bacteriology, 1995; 177(6): 1511-1519, and Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 2000; 97(12): 6640-6645, and those skilled in the art can easily perform homologous recombination using these methods or applying these methods. 
 The expression “not (naturally) have” in the invention means that the lack of intrinsic presence in the host microorganism in nature. 
 The “host” in the invention means a target microorganism to which one or more genes are to be introduced from outside. 
 The “host” in the invention becomes in a state in which the effect of the gene can be exerted as a result of the introduction of one or more genes from outside. 
 The “host” in the invention may have a pathway for producing a useful metabolite. The “useful metabolite” in the invention is used as a generic name for major metabolites in the metabolic pathways of microorganisms, such as alcohols, amino acids, organic acids, and terpenes. The “host” may be any microorganism as long as it can be made to possess the ability to produce a useful metabolite by using a certain means, regardless of whether or not the microorganism intrinsically has the innate ability to produce the useful metabolite. 
 The classification of the enzyme as used herein is a classification based on the report of the Enzyme Commission of International Union of Biochemistry (IUB.), and the “Enzyme Commission number” is an enzyme number based on the report of the Enzyme Commission of the IUB. 
 With regard to the first invention, each of the terms “metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate” and “(useful) metabolite derived from acetyl-CoA” is used as a generic name for (useful) metabolites produced via acetyl-CoA in metabolic pathways. Examples thereof include alcohols such as isopropyl alcohol, ethanol, or butanol; amino acids such as L-glutamic acid, L-glutamine, L-arginine, L-ornithine, L-citrulline, L-leucine, L-isoleucine, or L-proline; organic acids such as 3-hydroxybutyric acid, poly-3-hydroxybutyric acid, polyglutamic acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 3-aminoisobutyric acid, 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid, methacrylic acid, citric acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, caproic acid, or mevalonic acid; and terpenes such as isoprene, squalene, steroid, or carotenoid. Examples thereof further include acetone. 
 With regard to the second invention, each of the terms “metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate” and “(useful) metabolite derived from acetyl-CoA” is used as a generic name for (useful) metabolites produced via acetyl-CoA in metabolic pathways. Examples thereof include organic acids such as citric acid, itaconic acid, or (poly-)3-hydroxybutyric acid. Examples thereof further include 3-hydroxybutyric acid, polyglutamic acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 3-aminoisobutyric acid, 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid, methacrylic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, caproic acid, or mevalonic acid. 
 The “production of acetyl-CoA” in the invention refers to conversion of a certain substance into acetyl-CoA in a metabolic pathway. Since acetyl-CoA is a metabolic intermediate and is quickly converted into various substances in metabolic pathways, the apparent amount of acetyl-CoA does not necessarily increase. However, the effect can be confirmed indirectly by detection of a CO 2 -derived label in a substance derived from acetyl-CoA, by an increase in the yield of a substance derived from acetyl-CoA relative to sugar consumption, or the like. Since various factors (e.g., the quantity of a coenzyme, the quantity of a substrate, or a change in metabolism caused by feedback inhibition) are involved in conversion of acetyl-CoA into another substance, the production amount of acetyl-CoA is not always proportional to the total amount of substances derived from acetyl-CoA. However, in a case in which the pathway to produce a specific substance from acetyl-CoA is enhanced or in a case in which such pathway is intrinsically intense (for example, in the case of glutamic acid-producing microorganism described below), the conversion efficiency of acetyl-CoA into a downstream substance is less likely to be affected by external factors, and, therefore, the production efficiency of the specific substance can be regarded as an index of the acetyl-CoA production efficiency. 
 Hereinbelow, the invention is described in more detail. 
 Acetyl-CoA Producing Microorganism 
 The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the first invention is a microorganism including an acetyl-CoA production cycle obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and hydroxypyruvate reductase, to a microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) described above, 
 the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism being obtained without imparting any of (a), (b), (c), or (d) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a), (b), (c), or (d) even if one or more of (a), (b), (c), or (d) is imparted thereto, 
 wherein, in the microorganism: at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of pyruvate kinase, pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, malate dehydrogenase, malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, hydroxypyruvate isomerase, hydroxypyruvate reductase, glycerate 2-kinase, glycerate 3-kinase, phosphoglycerate mutase, and enolase, is enhanced; at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of a malic enzyme and fumarate reductase is inactivated or reduced; or any combination thereof. 
 From the viewpoint of the production efficiency of acetyl-CoA, the microorganism according to the first invention is imparted with preferably an enzymatic activity of malate thiokinase, more preferably enzymatic activities of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, still more preferably enzymatic activities of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, and glyoxylate carboligase, and even more preferably enzymatic activities of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, and 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and/or hydroxypyruvate reductase. 
 The microorganism according to the first invention has a simple and practical acetyl-CoA production cycle which fixes CO 2  and converts it into acetyl-CoA. The cycle is described in more detail with reference to  FIG. 1 . 
 The acetyl-CoA production cycle illustrated in  FIG. 1  represents one preferable example of the acetyl-CoA production cycle according to the first invention (hereinafter, also referred to as “cycle of  FIG. 1 ”). 
 As illustrated in  FIG. 1 , the acetyl-CoA production cycle includes the following (f) to (m): 
 (f) at least one selected from the group consisting of: pyruvate kinase (Pyk) and pyruvate carboxylase (Pyc); phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (Ppc); and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (Pck); 
 (g) malate dehydrogenase (Mdh); 
 (h) malate thiokinase (Mtk); 
 (i) malyl-CoA lyase (Mel); 
 (j) glyoxylate carboligase (Gel); 
 (k) at least one selected from the group consisting of: 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase (GlxR); and hydroxypyruvate isomerase (Hyi) and hydroxypyruvate reductase (YcdW); 
 (l) at least one selected from the group consisting of: glycerate 2-kinase (GarK); and glycerate 3-kinase (GlxK) and phosphoglycerate mutase (Gpm); and 
 (m) enolase (Eno). 
 In the invention, the acetyl-CoA production cycle preferably substantively includes only the above-described (f) to (m). The acetyl-CoA production cycle that the microorganism according to the invention has is preferably an acetyl-CoA production cycle composed only of the above-described (f) to (m). 
 Among the above-described enzymes, Pyc, Ppc, and Pck are involved in CO 2  fixation. CO 2  is first bound to phosphoenolpyruvate or pyruvate by the action of Ppc, Pck, or Pyc, and converted into oxaloacetate. The oxaloacetate is converted into malate by the action of Mdh. The malate is converted into malyl-CoA (malate CoA) by the action of Mtk. The malyl-CoA (malate CoA) is converted into acetyl-CoA and glyoxylate by the action of Mcl. The glyoxylate is converted into 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate by the action of Gcl. The 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate is converted into glycerate by the action of GlxR, or alternatively, converted into hydroxypyruvate by the action of Hyi and then into glycerate by the action of YcdW. The glycerate is converted into 2-phosphoglycerate by the action of GarK, or alternatively, converted into 3-phosphoglycerate by the action of GlxK and then converted into 2-phosphoglycerate by the action of Gpm. The 2-phosphoglycerate is converted into phosphoenolpyruvate by the action of Eno. In a case in which Pyk and Pyc is included in the cycle, the phosphoenolpyruvate is converted into pyruvate by the action of Pyk. 
 The microorganism according to the second invention is a microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  obtained by imparting at least one enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase, to a microorganism that does not have any of (a2), (b2), (c2), (d2) or (e2) described above, 
 the microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  being obtained without imparting any of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) to the microorganism, or such that the microorganism exhibits none of the functions of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) even if one or more of (a2), (b2), (c2), or (d2) is imparted thereto. Here, (a2), (b2), (c2), (d2), and (e2) have the same definitions as (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) in the first invention, respectively. 
 As a preferable example of the microorganism according to the second invention, a microorganism that includes a pathway via glycine (hereinafter, also referred to as “glycine pathway”) is described. The microorganism has at least one type of enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of glycine transaminase and a glycine cleavage system. The glycine pathway is described with reference to  FIG. 2 . 
 As illustrated in  FIG. 2 , the glycine pathway includes: 
 at least one enzymatic reaction selected from the group consisting of (a3) and (b3); 
 enzymatic reactions of (c3), (d3), (e3), (f3), and (g3); and 
 at least one enzymatic reaction selected from the group consisting of: an enzymatic reaction of (h3); enzymatic reactions of (i3), (j3), (k3), and (n3); and enzymatic reactions of (i3), (j3), (l3), (m3), and (n3). 
 (a3) An enzymatic reaction from phosphoenolpyruvate to oxaloacetate. 
 (b3) An enzymatic reaction from pyruvate to oxaloacetate. 
 (c3) An enzymatic reaction from oxaloacetate to malate. 
 (d3) An enzymatic reaction from malate to malyl-CoA. 
 (e3) An enzymatic reaction from malyl-CoA to glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA. 
 (f3) An enzymatic reaction from glyoxylate to glycine. 
 (g3) An enzymatic reaction from glycine to serine. 
 (h3) An enzymatic reaction from serine to pyruvate. 
 (i3) An enzymatic reaction from serine to 3-hydroxypyruvate. 
 (j3) An enzymatic reaction from 3-hydroxypyruvate to glycerate. 
 (k3) An enzymatic reaction from glycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate. 
 (l3) An enzymatic reaction from glycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. 
 (m3) An enzymatic reaction from 3-phosphoglycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate. 
 (n3) An enzymatic reaction from 2-phosphoglycerate to phosphoenolpyruvate. 
 Examples of (a3) include an enzymatic reaction involving any one of a reaction mediated by phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, a reaction mediated by phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, or a reaction mediated by pyruvate kinase and pyruvate carboxylase. 
 Examples of (b3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by pyruvate carboxylase. 
 Examples of (c3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by malate dehydrogenase. 
 Examples of (d3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by malate thiokinase. 
 Examples of (e3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by malyl-CoA lyase. 
 Examples of (f3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by glycine transaminase. 
 Examples of (g3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by a glycine cleavage system and serine hydroxymethyltransferase. 
 Examples of (h3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by serine dehydratase. 
 Examples of (i3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by serine transaminase. 
 Examples of (j3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by hydroxypyruvate reductase. 
 Examples of (k3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by glycerate 2-kinase. 
 Examples of (l3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by glycerate 3-kinase. 
 Examples of (m3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by phosphoglycerate mutase. 
 Examples of (n3) include an enzymatic reaction mediated by enolase. 
 In the glycine pathway, the conversion of serine into pyruvate may be performed by an enzymatic reaction that directly converts serine into pyruvate (the above reaction (h3)), or enzymatic reactions that convert serine into pyruvate via 3-hydroxypyruvate (reactions including above reaction (i3) and downstream reactions thereof). 
 In a case in which the conversion of serine into pyruvate is achieved by an enzymatic reaction that converts serine into pyruvate via 3-hydroxypyruvate (reactions including the above reaction (i3) and downstream reactions thereof), the conversion of glycerate into 2-phosphoglycerate may be an enzymatic reaction that directly converts glycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate (the above reaction (k3)), or by enzymatic reactions that convert glycerate into 2-phosphoglycerate via 3-phosphoglycerate (reactions including the above reactions (l3) and (m3)). 
 A preferable example of the microorganism according to the second invention has: 
 at least one enzyme selected from the group consisting of (a4) and (b4); 
 enzymes of (c4), (d4), (e4), (f4), and (g4); and 
 at least one selected from the group consisting of:
         (h4);   (i4), (j4), (k4), and (n4); and   (i4), (j4), (l4), (m4), and (n4).       
 (a4) At least one selected from the group consisting of pyruvate kinase and pyruvate carboxylase; phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase; and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase. 
 (b4) Pyruvate carboxylase. 
 (c4) Malate dehydrogenase. 
 (d4) Malate thiokinase. 
 (e4) Malyl-CoA lyase. 
 (f4) Glycine transaminase. 
 (g4) A glycine cleavage system and serine hydroxymethyltransferase. 
 (h4) Serine dehydratase. 
 (i4) Serine transaminase. 
 (j4) Hydroxypyruvate reductase. 
 (k4) Glycerate 2-kinase. 
 (l4) Glycerate 3-kinase. 
 (m4) Phosphoglycerate mutase. 
 (n4) Enolase. 
 Hereinbelow, the conversion of substances in the cycle of  FIG. 1  and the glycine pathway in  FIG. 2  are described in detail. 
 Pyruvate carboxylase (Pyc) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (Ppc) are carbon dioxide-fixing enzymes having high activity. For example, RubisCO used in photosynthesis in plants or the like is known to have a specific activity of from about 3 U/mg to about 20 U/mg (Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1999; 274(8): 5078-5082, Salvucci M. E. at al., Analytical Biochemistry, 1986; 153(1): 97-101). On the other hand, pyruvate carboxylase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase are reported to have a specific activity of 30 U/mg in  Escherichia coli , or as high as 100 U/mg to 150 U/mg (Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1972; 247(18): 5785-5792, Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Biochemistry, 1995; 59(1): 140-142, Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, 2000; 1475(3): 191-206). 
 Furthermore, neither the cycle of  FIG. 1  nor the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  includes an enzyme that consumes acetyl-CoA. Therefore, it can be said that the cycle of  FIG. 1  and the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  are ideal cycles for fixing CO 2  and converting it into acetyl-CoA. 
 An enzyme that consumes acetyl-CoA as described above refers to an enzyme that uses acetyl-CoA as a substrate and converts acetyl-CoA into another substance, and examples thereof include acetyl-CoA carboxylase and pyruvate synthase. 
 That a cycle does not include an enzyme that consumes acetyl-CoA means that the cycle is not a closed cycle in which acetyl-CoA is converted again into acetyl-CoA through the cycle due to an action of an enzyme that consumes acetyl-CoA. A case in which a substance produced by the conversion due to an enzyme that consumes acetyl-CoA is further converted into another product without being returning to acetyl-CoA (for example, a case of conversion into glutamate as the end-product in a glutamate-producing pathway), is not included in the scope of the “cycle including an enzyme that consumes acetyl-CoA”, since the pathway is not a closed cycle. A closed cycle refers to a pathway which starts from any one substance on the pathway, and through which the substance is converted into another substance, and eventually converted into the same substance as the starting substance. 
 Acetyl-CoA carboxylase, which is classified as Enzyme commission number: 6.4.1.2, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting acetyl-CoA and CO 2  into malonyl-CoA. 
 Pyruvate synthase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.2.7.1, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting acetyl-CoA into pyruvate. 
 Another advantage of the cycle of  FIG. 1  and the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  is that, since these pathways are independent from glycolytic pathway, each pathway can be freely combined with various glycolytic pathways. For example, the cycle of  FIG. 1  and the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  can be easily combined with the pentose phosphate pathway, which produces NADPH with a high production rate and is often used in production of substances (Japanese National-phase publication (JP-A) No. 2007-510411), since the cycle of  FIG. 1  and the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  are independent from the pentose phosphate pathway. 
 In the cycle of  FIG. 1 , malate dehydrogenase (Mdh), 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase (GlxR), and hydroxypyruvate reductase (YcdW) consume NADH (or NADPH) as the reduction power; malate thiokinase (Mtk), glycerate 2-kinase (GarK), glycerate 3-kinase (GlxK), and pyruvate carboxylase (Pyc) consume ATP; and pyruvate kinase (Pyk) produces pyruvate. 
 In a case in which phosphoenolpyruvate is used as the starting substance, the balanced equation for the cycle of  FIG. 1  is: “phosphoenolpyruvate+2CoA+CO 2 +3NAD(P)H+3ATP→2acetyl-CoA+3NAD(P) + +3ADP”. In a case in which pyruvate is used as the starting substance, the balanced equation is: “pyruvate+2CoA+CO 2 +3NAD(P)H+4ATP→2acetyl-CoA+3NAD(P) + +4ADP”. 
 That is, the cycle of  FIG. 1  requires supply of phosphoenolpyruvate (or pyruvate), NAD(P)H, and ATP for fixing CO 2  and converting it into acetyl-CoA. 
 In the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2 , malate dehydrogenase (Mdh) and hydroxypyruvate reductase (YcdW) consume NADH (or NADPH) as the reduction power. In a case in which glyoxylate is converted into glycine, the reduction power corresponding to one molecule of NADH (or NADPH) is consumed directly by glycine dehydrogenase or indirectly via another amino acid with mediation by an aminotransferase such as glyoxylate aminotransferase. The glycine cleavage system consumes NAD +  (or NADP + ) and converts it into NADH (or NADPH). In a case in which serine is converted into 3-hydroxypyruvate, NAD +  (or NADP + ) is consumed and converted into NADH (or NADPH) directly by serine dehydrogenase or indirectly via another amino acid with mediation by an aminotransferase such as serine aminotransferase. 
 Malate thiokinase (Mtk), glycerate 2-kinase (GarK), glycerate 3-kinase (GlxK), and pyruvate carboxylase (Pyc) consume ATP. In a case in which ammonia is incorporated into the metabolic system, ATP is sometimes consumed. Pyruvate kinase (Pyk) produces pyruvate. 
 In a case in which phosphoenolpyruvate is used as the starting substance, the balanced equation for the pathway of  FIG. 2  is: “phosphoenolpyruvate+2CoA+CO 2 +3NAD(P)H+3 to 5ATP→2acetyl-CoA+3NAD(P) + +3 to 5ADP”. In a case in which pyruvate is used as the starting substance, the balanced equation is: “pyruvate+2CoA+CO 2 +3NAD(P)H+4 to 6ATP→2acetyl-CoA+3NAD(P) + +4 to 6ADP”. 
 Among fermentation pathways that produce acetyl-CoA as an intermediate, balanced equations of pathways that consume oxygen during fermentation are listed in Table 1. It is assumed that, in these fermentation pathways, a reduced coenzyme such as NADH is produced during the fermentation pathway and the reduced coenzyme is reconverted into a oxidized form by the action of oxygen. Therefore, if the reduced coenzyme produced is consumed by the cycle of  FIG. 1  and/or the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  instead of by oxygen, it can be expected that the reduction power generated through fermentation process could be efficiently used in the acetyl-CoA production cycle for fixing CO 2  and converting it into products. 
 Here, the reduced coenzyme refers to a coenzyme in the reduced state that is involved in an oxidation-reduction reaction, and examples thereof include NADH, NADPH, FADH 2 , FMNH 2 , and a reduced quinone coenzyme. The reduced coenzyme is preferably NADH or NADPH, and more preferably NADH. The oxidized coenzyme refers to the oxidized form of a reduced coenzyme, and examples thereof include NAD + , NADP + , FAD, FMN, and an oxidized quinone coenzyme. The oxidized coenzyme is preferably NAD +  or NADP + , and more preferably NAD + . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 1 
 
 
   
 
 
 Compound Name 
 Fermentation equation 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Isopropyl alcohol 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + H 2 O + 3/2O 2  → C 3 H 8 O + 3CO 2  + 3H 2 O 
 
 
 Acetone 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 2O 2  → C 3 H 6 O + 3H 2 O + 3CO 2   
 
 
 Glutamic acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  + NH 3  → C 5 H 9 NO 4  + CO 2  + 3H 2 O 
 
 
 Glutamine 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  + 2NH 3  → C 5 H 10 N 2 O 3  + CO 2  + 4H 2 O 
 
 
 Arginine 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 1/2O 2  + 4NH 3  → C 6 H 14 N 2 O 2  + 5H 2 O 
 
 
 Ornithine 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 1/2O 2  + 2NH 3  → C 5 H 12 N 2 O 2  + 3H 2 O + CO 2   
 
 
 Citrulline 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 1/2O 2  + 3NH 3  → C 6 H 13 N 3 O 3  + 4H 2 O 
 
 
 Proline 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 1/2O 2  + NH 3  → C 5 H 9 NO 2  + 3H 2 O + CO 2   
 
 
 Acetic acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 2O 2  → 2C 2 H 4 O 2  + 2CO 2  + 2H 2 O 
 
 
 (poly-)3-hydroxybutyric acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  → C 4 H 8 O 3  + 2CO 2  + 2H 2 O 
 
 
 Itaconic acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  → C 5 H 6 O 4  + CO 2  + 3H 2 O 
 
 
 Citric acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  → C 6 H 8 O 7  + 2H 2 O 
 
 
 Butyric acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + O 2  → C 4 H 8 O 2  + 2H 2 O + 2CO 2   
 
 
 Leucine (Isoleucine) 
 3/2C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  + NH 3  → C 6 H 13 NO 2  + 4H 2 O + 3CO 2   
 
 
 4-Aminobutyric acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  + NH 3  → C 4 H 9 NO 2  + 3H 2 O + 2CO 2   
 
 
 4-hydroxybutyric acid 
 C 6 H 12 O 6  + 3/2O 2  → C 4 H 8 O 3  + 2H 2 O+ 2CO 2   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 As illustrated in Table 1, fermentation in which oxygen is present on the left side of the fermentation equation often requires a large amount oxygen. In such cases, extensive aeration and/or vigorous stirring is sometimes required, which results in increase in equipment costs and electric power costs. Therefore, by introducing the cycle of  FIG. 1  or the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  into a substance production system, surplus reduction power can be consumed by the cycle of  FIG. 1  or the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  instead of by oxygen, and excessive aeration/stirring can be moderated, and the cost of fermentative production can be expected to be reduced. 
 In order to supply the reduction power to the cycle of  FIG. 1  or the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2 , the reduction power may be provided by adding a substance that can generate a reduction power or by imparting energies from outside. Specific means thereof include using a substance that has a higher reduction degree (e.g., hydrogen, sulfite, alcohols, or paraffin) as a substrate; supplying reduction energies directly by electric culture; and supplying a reduction power by a photochemical reaction of an organism. Supply of reducing power from outside enables the carbon dioxide fixation pathway according to the invention to be driven even in cases where fermentation does not involve generation of a reduced coenzyme, dissimilar to the fermentations indicated in Table 1. 
 Hereinbelow, enzymes included in the cycle of  FIG. 1  and enzymes included in the glycine pathway in  FIG. 2  are described in detail. 
 Pyruvate kinase (Pyk), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 2.7.1.40, is a generic name for enzymes which convert phosphoenolpyruvate and ADP into pyruvate and ATP. Examples of pyruvate kinase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding pyruvate kinase (pyk), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding pyruvate kinase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Pyruvate carboxylase (Pyc), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 6.4.1.1, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting pyruvate and carbon dioxide into oxaloacetate. The reaction consumes ATP, and produces ADP and phosphate. Examples of pyruvate carboxylase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , or  Mycobacterium  bacteria such as  Mycobacterium smegmatis.    
 As a gene encoding pyruvate carboxylase (pyc), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding pyruvate carboxylase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , or a  Mycobacterium  bacterium such as  Mycobacterium smegmatis.    
 Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (Ppc), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.31, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting phosphoenolpyruvate and carbon dioxide into oxaloacetate and phosphate. Examples of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli, Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis, Hyphomicrobium  bacteria such as  Hyphomicrobium methylovorum, Starkeya  bacteria such as  Starkeya novella, Rhodopseudomonas  bacteria such as  Rhodopseudomonas  sp., or  Streptomyces  bacteria such as  Streptomyces coelicolor.    
 As a gene encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (ppc), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis , a  Hyphomicrobium  bacterium such as  Hyphomicrobium methylovorum , a  Starkeya  bacterium such as  Starkeya novella , a  Rhodopseudomonas  bacterium such as  Rhodopseudomonas  sp., or a  Streptomyces  bacterium such as  Streptomyces coelicolor.    
 Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (Pck), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.32, Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.38, or Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.49, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting phosphoenolpyruvate and carbon dioxide into oxaloacetate. Among these enzymes, the enzyme classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.32 is involved in a reaction of converting GDP into GTP; the enzyme classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.38 is involved in a reaction of converting phosphate into pyrophosphate; and the enzyme classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.49 is involved in a reaction of converting ADP into ATP. Examples of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase include those from  Actinobacillus  bacteria such as  Actinobacillus succinogenes, Mycobacterium  bacteria such as  Mycobacterium smegmatis , or  Trypanosoma  bacteria such as  Trypanosoma brucei.    
 As a gene encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (pck), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Actinobacillus  such as  Actinobacillus succinogenes , a  Mycobacterium  bacterium such as  Mycobacterium smegmatis , or a  Trypanosoma  bacterium such as  Trypanosoma brucei.    
 Malate dehydrogenase (Mdh), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.1.1.37, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing malate from oxaloacetate using NADH as a coenzyme. Examples of malate dehydrogenase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , or  Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli.    
 As a gene encoding malate dehydrogenase (mdh), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding malate dehydrogenase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Malate thiokinase (Mtk), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 6.2.1.9, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of binding malate to CoA to produce malyl-CoA. In this reaction, one molecule of ATP is consumed, and one molecule of ADP and one molecule of phosphate are produced. Malate thiokinase is composed of a large subunit having approximately 400 amino acids and a small subunit having 300 amino acids. In the gene, the large subunit and the small subunit are present usually in this order. Here, for convenience, the large subunit is referred to as mtkB, and the small subunit is referred to as mtkA. It is reported that the specific activity of the purified malate thiokinase is, for example, 2.5 U/mg (Analytical Biochemistry, 1995; 227(2): 363-367). 
 Malate thiokinase is mainly found in an assimilation pathway for C1 carbon sources such as methane (Journal of Bacteriology, 1994; 176(23): 7398-7404) and a 3-hydroxypropionate pathway (Archives of Microbiology, 1989; 151: 252-256). The gene encoding malyl-CoA lyase is present in the vicinity of the gene encoding malate thiokinase in the genome, and such a gene encoding malate thiokinase and being present at such a location is preferably used. 
 Examples of malate thiokinase include those from  Methylobacterium  such as  Methylobacterium extorquens  (SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2), those from  Granulibacter  such as  Granulibacter bethesdensis  (SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4), those from  Hyphomicrobium  such as  Hyphomicrobium methylovorum  (SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6) or  Hyphomicrobium denitrificans  (SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8), those from  Rhizobium  such as  Rhizobium  sp. NGR234 (SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 10), those from  Nitrosomonas  such as  Nitrosomonas europaea  (SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 12), those from  Methylococcus  such as  Methylococcus capsulatus  (SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 14), and those from Gammaproteobacteria (SEQ ID NOs: 15 and 16). 
 From the viewpoint of the production efficiency of useful substances produced via acetyl-CoA, preferable examples of malate thiokinase include those from  Hyphomicrobium  (SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6, and SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8), those from  Rhizobium  (SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 10), those from  Nitrosomonas  (SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 12), those from  Methylococcus  (SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 14), and those from Gammaproteobacteria (SEQ ID NOs: 15 and 16). 
 Malate thiokinase from  Hyphomicrobium  (SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6, and SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8), malate thiokinase from  Rhizobium  (SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 10) and malate thiokinase from  Nitrosomonas  (SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 12) share 65% to 80% sequence homology with one another. Malate thiokinase from  Methylococcus  (SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 14) shares 70% to 80% sequence homology with the malate thiokinase from Gammaproteobacteria (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 15 and 16). 
 Proteins having at least 70% amino acid sequence homology with any one of the amino sequences of malate thiokinase from  Hyphomicrobium , malate thiokinase from  Rhizobium , malate thiokinase from  Nitrosomonas , malate thiokinase from  Methylococcus , or malate thiokinase from Gammaproteobacteria disclosed in the invention, and having a malate thiokinase activity may be suitably used for producing acetyl-CoA or useful substances producible from acetyl-CoA. 
 As a gene encoding malate thiokinase (mtk), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding malate thiokinase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthetic DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Methylobacterium  such as  Methylobacterium extorquens  (SEQ ID NOs: 17 and 18),  Hyphomicrobium  such as  Hyphomicrobium methylovorum  or  Hyphomicrobium denitrificans, Rhizobium  such as  Rhizobium  sp. NGR234 , Granulibacter  such as  Granulibacter bethesdensis, Nitrosomonas  such as  Nitrosomonas europaea, Methylococcus  such as  Methylococcus capsulatus , or Gammaproteobacterium. From the viewpoint of the production efficiency of acetyl-CoA, preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Hyphomicrobium  (SEQ ID NOs: 19 and 20, and SEQ ID NOs: 21 and 22),  Rhizobium  such as  Rhizobium  of which codon usage is optimized (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 23),  Granulibacter  (SEQ ID NOs: 24 and 25),  Nitrosomonas  (SEQ ID NOs: 26 and 27),  Methylococcus  (SEQ ID NOs: 28 and 29), or Gammaproteobacteria (SEQ ID NOs: 30 and 31). 
 More preferable examples thereof include a base sequence of a gene from  Hyphomicrobium  (SEQ ID NOs: 19 and 20, and SEQ ID NOs: 21 and 22),  Rhizobium  such as  Rhizobium  of which codon usage is optimized (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 23),  Nitrosomonas  (SEQ ID NOs: 26 and 27),  Methylococcus  (SEQ ID NOs: 28 and 29), or Gammaproteobacteria (SEQ ID NOs: 30 and 31). 
 Methanotrophic microorganisms such as  Methylobacterium extorquens  intrinsically have malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase. However, since vector systems suitable for methanotrophic microorganisms or techniques for modification of genomic genes of methanotrophic microorganisms have not been developed, genetic manipulation of the microorganisms is difficult compared with industrial microorganisms such as  Escherichia coli  and  Corynebacterium . Further, methanotrophic microorganisms grow slowly in many cases and therefore are not suitable for producing useful metabolites. 
 Malyl-CoA lyase (Mel), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.3.24, is an enzyme that catalyzes a reaction of producing glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA from malyl-CoA. Examples of malyl-CoA lyase include those from  Methylobacterium  such as  Methylobacterium extorquens, Hyphomicrobium  such as  Hyphomicrobium methylovorum  or  Hyphomicrobium denitrificans, Chloroflexus  such as  Chloroflexus aurantiacus, Nitrosomonas  such as  Nitrosomonas europaea , or  Methylococcus  such as  Methylococcus capsulatus . It is reported that the specific activity of purified malyl-CoA lyase in  Methylobacterium extorquens  is, for example, 28.1 U/mg (Biochemical Journal, 1974; 139(2): 399-405). 
 From the viewpoint of the production efficiency of acetyl-CoA, preferable examples of malyl-CoA lyase include an enzyme having the amino acid sequence from  Methylobacterium  (SEQ ID NO: 32),  Hyphomicrobium  (SEQ ID NO: 33 and 34),  Nitrosomonas  (SEQ ID NO: 35), or  Methylococcus  (SEQ ID NO: 36). 
 As a gene encoding malyl-CoA lyase (mei), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding malyl-CoA lyase obtained from the above organism, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Methylobacterium  such as  Methylobacterium extorquens, Hyphomicrobium  such as  Hyphomicrobium methylovorum  or  Hyphomicrobium denitrificans , or  Chloroflexus  such as  Chloroflexus aurantiacus . From the viewpoint of the production efficiency of acetyl-CoA, more preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Methylobacterium  and a gene having a base sequence of a gene from  Hyphomicrobium.    
 Specific examples of preferable base sequences of the gene from  Methylobacterium  include a base sequence of a gene from  Methylobacterium extorquens  (SEQ ID NO: 37). Specific examples of preferable base sequences of the gene from  Hyphomicrobium  include a base sequence of a gene from  Hyphomicrobium methylovorum  (SEQ ID NO: 38) or  Hyphomicrobium denitrificans  (SEQ ID NO: 39). Specific examples of preferable base sequences of the gene from  Nitrosomonas  include a base sequence of a gene from  Nitrosomonas europaea  (SEQ ID NO: 40). Specific examples of preferable base sequences of the gene from  Methylococcus  include a base sequence of a gene from  Methylococcus capsulatus  (SEQ ID NO: 41). 
 Glyoxylate carboligase (Gel), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.47, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting two molecules of glyoxylate into one molecule of 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate. This reaction is accompanied by decarboxylation of one molecule of carbon dioxide. Examples of glyoxylate carboligase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Rhodococcus  bacteria such as  Rhodococcus jostii.    
 As a gene encoding glyoxylate carboligase (gel), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding glyoxylate carboligase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Rhodococcus  bacterium such as  Rhodococcus jostii , or an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli.    
 2-Hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.1.1.60, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate into glycerate using NADH as a coenzyme. Examples of 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase include those from  Rhodococcus  bacteria such as  Rhodococcus jostii , or  Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli.    
 As a gene encoding 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase (glxR), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Rhodococcus  bacterium such as  Rhodococcus jostii , or an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli.    
 Hydroxypyruvate isomerase (Hyi), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 5.3.1.22, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of isomerizing 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate to hydroxypyruvate. Examples of hydroxypyruvate isomerase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding hydroxypyruvate isomerase (hyi), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding hydroxypyruvate isomerase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Hydroxypyruvate reductase (YcdW), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.1.1.81, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting hydroxypyruvate into glycerate using NADH or NADPH as a coenzyme. Examples of hydroxypyruvate reductase include those from  Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding hydroxypyruvate reductase (ycdW), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding hydroxypyruvate reductase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthetic DNA sequence synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Glycerate 2-kinase (GarK), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 2.7.1.165, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting glycerate into 2-phosphoglycerate. In this reaction, one molecule of ATP is consumed, and one molecule of ADP and one molecule of phosphate are produced. Examples of glycerate 2-kinase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding glycerate 2-kinase (garK), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding glycerate 2-kinase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Glycerate 3-kinase (GlxK), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 2.7.1.31 is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting glycerate into 3-phosphoglycerate. In this reaction, one molecule of ATP is consumed, and one molecule of ADP and one molecule of phosphate are produced. Examples of glycerate 3-kinase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding glycerate 3-kinase (glxK), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding glycerate 3-kinase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Phosphoglycerate mutase (Gpm), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 5.4.2.1, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting 3-phosphoglycerate into 2-phosphoglycerate. Examples of phosphoglycerate mutase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding phosphoglycerate mutase (gpm), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding phosphoglycerate mutase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Enolase (Eno), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.2.1.11, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting 2-phosphoglycerate into phosphoenolpyruvate. Examples of enolase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding enolase (eno), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding enolase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Glycine transaminase (Gta) is an enzyme that catalyzes a reaction of transferring an amino group from a compound having an amino group (a secondary amine or a primary amine) to glyoxylate and converting it into glycine. Examples thereof include, among the enzymes classified in the group of Enzyme Commission number: 2.6.1, an enzyme that uses glyoxylate as a substrate. Specific examples thereof include enzymes classified Enzyme Commission number: 2.6.1.*, in which * represents 4, 35, 44, 45, 60, 63, or 73. Furthermore, similar enzymatic activities are reported in some cases regarding enzymes classified Enzyme Commission number: 2.6.1.*, in which * represents 2, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 27, 38, 40, 42, 57, 64, 72, or 78. Examples of glycine transaminase include those from  Methylococcus  such as  Methylococcus capsulatus, Aspergillus  fungi such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator . Glycine transaminase may have a serine transaminase activity described below. In the invention, glycine dehydrogenase (Gdh) is considered to be included in the scope of glycine transaminase. 
 As a gene encoding glycine transaminase (gta), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding glycine transaminase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Methylococcus  such as  Methylococcus capsulatus , an  Aspergillus  fungus such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator . In the invention, a gene encoding glycine dehydrogenase is considered to be included in the scope of a gene encoding glycine transaminase. 
 As a gene encoding glycine dehydrogenase (gdh), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding glycine dehydrogenase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Mycobacterium  bacterium such as  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  or  Mycobacterium smegmatis , or a  Hyphomicrobium  bacterium such as  Hyphomicrobium vulgare.    
 The glycine cleavage system (Gcs) is a generic name of a series of enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting glycine, tetrahydrofolate, and NAD +  into 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, NH 3 , CO 2 , and NADH. The glycine cleavage system is composed of proteins called H-protein, P-protein, L-protein, and T-protein (Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, 1973; 1(2): 169-187). P-protein, L-protein, and T-protein are classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.4.4.2, 1.8.1.4, and 2.1.2.10, respectively. Examples of the glycine cleavage system include those from  Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis, Aspergillus  fungi such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator.    
 As genes encoding the glycine cleavage system (gcs), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding glycine cleavage system obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis , an  Aspergillus  fungus such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator.    
 By the action of serine hydroxymethyltransferase, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate produced by the glycine cleavage system is reacted with another glycine and converted into serine. That is, by the action of serine hydroxymethyltransferase, two molecules of glycine and NAD +  are converted into serine, NH 3 , CO 2 , and NADH. 
 Serine hydroxymethyltransferase (Shmt), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 2.1.2.1, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate and glycine into serine and tetrahydrofolate. Examples of serine hydroxymethyltransferase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli , or  Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 As a gene encoding serine hydroxymethyltransferase (shmt), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding serine hydroxymethyltransferase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , or a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis.    
 Serine dehydratase (Sda), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.3.1.17, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing pyruvate and ammonia from serine. Furthermore, similar enzymatic activities are sometimes reported regarding enzymes classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.3.1.19. Examples of serine dehydratase include those from  Corynebacterium  bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli, Pantoea  bacteria such as  Pantoea ananatis, Aspergillus  fungi such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator.    
 As a gene encoding serine dehydratase (sda), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding serine dehydratase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Corynebacterium  bacterium such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum , an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli , a  Pantoea  bacterium such as  Pantoea ananatis , an  Aspergillus  fungus such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator.    
 Serine transaminase (Sga) is an enzyme that catalyzes a reaction of transferring an amino group from serine to a compound having a carbonyl group (a ketone group or an aldehyde group) and converting it into 3-hydroxypyruvate. Examples thereof include, among the enzymes classified Enzyme Commission number: 2.6.1, an enzyme that uses serine as a substrate. Specific examples thereof include enzymes classified Enzyme Commission number: 2.6.1.51 or 2.6.1.45. Furthermore, similar enzymatic activities are reported in some cases regarding enzymes classified Enzyme Commission number: 2.6.1.44 or 2.6.1.35. Serine transaminase may have a glycine transaminase described above. Examples of serine transaminase include those from  Methylococcus  such as  Methylococcus capsulatus, Aspergillus  fungi such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator . In the invention, serine 2-dehydrogenase is considered to be included in the scope of serine transaminase. 
 As a gene encoding serine transaminase (sga), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding serine transaminase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Methylococcus  such as  Methylococcus capsulatus , an  Aspergillus  fungus such as  Aspergillus niger , or  Cupriavidus  such as  Cupriavidus necator . In the invention, a gene encoding serine 2-dehydrogenase is considered to be included in the scope of a gene encoding serine transaminase. 
 Serine 2-dehydrogenase (Sdh), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.4.1.7, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing 3-hydroxypyruvate and ammonia from serine. Examples of serine 2-dehydrogenase include those from a plant such as  Petroselinum crispum.    
 As a gene encoding serine 2-dehydrogenase (sdh), a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding serine 2-dehydrogenase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a plant such as  Petroselinum crispum.    
 In a microorganism in which the cycle of  FIG. 1  is not formed because the microorganism does not have some of the enzymes included in the cycle of  FIG. 1 , the missing enzyme(s) may be supplied. 
 Among  Escherichia  bacteria,  Escherichia coli , for example, possesses none of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, or glycine transaminase, and therefore, at least malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, and glycine transaminase may be imparted. 
 Among  Pantoea  bacteria,  Pantoea ananatis , for example, possesses none of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, or glycine transaminase, and therefore, at least malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, and glycine transaminase may be imparted. 
 Among coryneform bacteria,  Corynebacterium glutamicum , for example, possesses none of malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, or hydroxypyruvate reductase, and therefore, at least malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, and 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, and/or hydroxypyruvate reductase may be imparted. 
 In a microorganism in which neither the cycle of  FIG. 1  or the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2  is formed because the microorganism does not have some of the enzymes in the cycle of  FIG. 1  and the glycine pathway of  FIG. 2 , the missing enzyme(s) may be supplied. In the case of  Aspergillus niger , a species of filamentous fungi, the pathway of  FIG. 2  can be formed by imparting malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase. 
 In the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the first invention, it is preferable that at least one type of enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of pyruvate kinase, pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, malate dehydrogenase, malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, hydroxypyruvate isomerase, hydroxypyruvate reductase, glycerate 2-kinase, glycerate 3-kinase, phosphoglycerate mutase, and enolase is enhanced. This enables more efficient production of acetyl-CoA. 
 Pyruvate kinase, pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, malate dehydrogenase, malate thiokinase, malyl-CoA lyase, glyoxylate carboligase, 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase, hydroxypyruvate isomerase, hydroxypyruvate reductase, glycerate 2-kinase, glycerate 3-kinase, phosphoglycerate mutase, and enolase, which may become targets for enhancement, are enzymes constituting the cycle of  FIG. 1 . 
 In the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the first invention, it is preferable that at least one type of enzymatic activity selected from the group consisting of a malic enzyme and fumarate reductase is inactivated or reduced. This enables more efficient production of acetyl-CoA. 
 Malic enzyme is a generic name for enzymes that are classified as Enzyme Commission numbers: 1.1.1.38, 1.1.1.39, and 1.1.1.40 and catalyze a reaction of converting malate into pyruvate and carbon dioxide. In terms of acetyl-CoA production efficiency, it is preferable to inactivate or reduce the enzymatic activity of malic enzyme. 
 Fumarate reductase is a generic name for enzymes that are classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.3.99.1 and catalyze a reaction of converting fumarate into succinate. Furthermore, succinate dehydrogenase that is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.3.99.1 sometimes has a fumarate reductase activity of converting fumarate into succinate. Therefore, in the invention, succinate dehydrogenase having a fumarate reductase activity is included in the scope of fumarate reductase. In terms of acetyl-CoA production efficiency, it is preferable to inactivate or reduce the enzymatic activity of fumarate reductase. This enables suppression of reduction in the amount of malate due to the conversion of malate into fumarate or succinate, and leads to efficient production of acetyl-CoA. 
 With regard to the gene encoding the malic enzyme (in many cases, named sfcA, maeA, maeB, or malE, but not limited thereto), some microorganisms may have plural isomers thereof in the genome.  Pantoea ananatis  has sfcA and maeB.  Corynebacterium glutamicum  has malE. 
 With regard to the gene encoding fumarate reductase (frd, sdh, yqiG, and the like), some microorganisms may have plural isomers thereof in the genome.  Pantoea ananatis  has yqiG.  Corynebacterium glutamicum  has sdh. 
 The microorganism used as a host in the first invention is not particularly limited as long as it is a microorganism that does not have any of the following (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e). 
 (a) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate. 
 (b) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate. 
 (c) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA. 
 (d) A carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate. 
 (e) At least one selected from the group consisting of malate thiokinase and malyl-CoA lyase. 
 Here, the “(a) carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate” refers to the following cycles (1) to (7): 
 (1) the cycle illustrated in FIG. 1 of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via malonyl-CoA, 3-hydroxypropionate, propionyl-CoA, malate, and malyl-CoA; 
 (2) the cycle illustrated in  FIG. 4A  of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via malonyl-CoA, malonate semialdehyde, β-alanine, malate, and malyl-CoA; 
 (3) the cycle illustrated in FIG. 4B, 16, or 18 of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via malonyl-CoA, hydroxypropionate, (R)-lactate or (S)-lactate, malate, and malyl-CoA; 
 (4) the cycle illustrated in FIG. 8 of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via malonyl-CoA, malonate semialdehyde or hydroxypropionate, pyruvate, malate, and malyl-CoA; 
 (5) the cycle illustrated in FIG. 9A, 9B, or 9C of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via malonyl-CoA, hydroxypropionate, 2-ketoglutarate, malate, and malyl-CoA; 
 (6) the cycle illustrated in  FIG. 9D or 9F  of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via malonyl-CoA, hydroxypropionate, methylmalonyl-CoA, malate, and malyl-CoA; and 
 (7) the cycle illustrated in FIG. 17 of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via malonyl-CoA, malonate semialdehyde or hydroxypropionate, methylmalonyl-CoA, pyruvate, oxaloacetate, malate, and malyl-CoA. 
 All of carbon dioxide fixation cycles (1) to (7) described above have an enzymatic reaction from malonyl-CoA to malonate semialdehyde or from malonyl-CoA to 3-hydroxypropionate. This kind of reaction is catalyzed by malonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase or malonyl-CoA reductase (WO 2011/099006). It is thought that the reduction reaction of carboxylic acid or a (thio)ester thereof, such as reduction of succinyl-CoA or reduction of malonyl-CoA, is generally difficult to carry out as enzymatic reactions and inclusion thereof in a fermentation pathway should be avoided as much as possible (Nature, 2008; 451: 86-89, Nature Chemical Biology, 2011; 7: 445-452). 
 The “(b) carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from acetyl-CoA and CO 2  to pyruvate” in the present specification refers to the following cycles (8) to (10): 
 (8) the cycle illustrated in FIG. 1 of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via pyruvate, phosphoenolpyruvate, oxaloacetate, malate, and malyl-CoA; 
 (9) the cycle illustrated in FIG. 7C, 7D or 7E of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via pyruvate, malate, and malyl-CoA; and 
 (10) the cycle illustrated in  FIG. 9M  of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via pyruvate, 2-ketoglutarate, malate, and malyl-CoA. 
 All of carbon dioxide fixation cycles (8) to (10) have an enzyme reaction converting acetyl-CoA and CO 2  into pyruvate. This reaction is catalyzed by pyruvate synthase (WO 2011/099006). The pyruvate synthetic reaction by pyruvate synthase requires a strong reduction power from ferredoxin and proceeds slowly, and proceeds only under strictly anaerobic conditions because the reaction is sensitive to oxygen. 
 The “(c) carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA” in the present specification refers to the cycle illustrated in FIG. 9H or 9J of WO 2011/099006, in which acetyl-CoA is reconverted into acetyl-CoA via crotonyl-CoA, ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA, oxaloacetate, malate, and malyl-CoA. 
 The conversion of crotonyl-CoA and CO 2  to ethylmalonyl-CoA or glutaconyl-CoA is catalyzed by crotonyl-CoA carboxylase-reductase or methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase. Since the Km value of crotonyl-CoA carboxylase-reductase for carbonates is high (14 mM; Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 2007; 104(25): 10631-10636), sufficient activity at low substrate concentration cannot be expected. Crotonyl-CoA, which is a substrate of crotonyl-CoA carboxylase-reductase, is produced from 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA by a dehydration reaction. In general, an enzyme involved in the dehydration reaction predominantly catalyzes the reverse reaction (i.e., hydration reaction) in an aqueous environment. Therefore, a sufficiently high production rate of crotonyl-CoA cannot be expected. Further, the reported specific activity of methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase is not so high (0.2 U/mg to 0.6 U/mg; Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics, 1994; 310(1): 64-75). In addition, a sufficiently high production rate of crotonyl-CoA as a substrate cannot be expected, similar to the above. 
 The “(d) carbon dioxide fixation cycle including an enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate” in the present specification refers to the cycle illustrated in FIG. 5, 6, 13 or 14 of WO 2009/046929, that is, a cycle that is a combination of a pathway in which 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate is produced from CO 2  via formate and 5-formyltetrahydrofolate; a pathway in which 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate is reacted with glycine to produce serine, and the serine is reconverted into glycine via 3-hydroxypyruvate, glycerate, 3-phosphoglycerate, phosphoenol pyruvate, oxaloacetate, malate, malyl-CoA, and glyoxylate; and a pathway in which acetyl-CoA produced via malate and malyl-CoA is reconverted into malate via the TCA cycle and a reaction involving isocitrate lyase. 
 The enzymatic reaction from CO 2  to formate requires a strong reduction power and proceeds slowly, and proceeds only under strictly anaerobic conditions because the reaction is sensitive to oxygen. 
 Malonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.2.1.18, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting malonyl-CoA into malonate semialdehyde. 
 Malonyl-CoA reductase is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting malonyl-CoA into malonate semialdehyde or 3-hydroxypropionate. 
 Pyruvate synthase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.2.7.1, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyzes a reaction of converting acetyl-CoA into pyruvate. 
 Crotonyl-CoA carboxylase-reductase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.3.1.85, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze the conversion of crotonyl-CoA into ethylmalonyl-CoA. 
 Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 6.4.1.4, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of converting crotonyl-CoA into glutaconyl-CoA. 
 Examples of the microorganism that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) include microorganisms belonging to Enterobacteriaceae, microorganisms belonging to  Corynebacterium  bacteria, microorganisms belonging to filamentous fungi, and actinomycetes. 
 Specific examples of the microorganisms belonging to Enterobacteriaceae include bacteria belonging to  Enterobacter, Erwinia, Escherichia, Klebsiella, Pantoea, Providencia, Salmonella, Serratia, Shigella , or  Morganella . Among these, microorganisms belonging to  Escherichia  and microorganisms belonging to  Pantoea  are preferable from the viewpoint of efficient production of useful metabolites.  Escherichia  bacteria and  Pantoea  bacteria are very closely related species (Journal of General and Applied Microbiology, 1997; 43(6): 355-361, International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology, 1997; 47(4): 1061-1067). 
 The  Escherichia  bacteria are not particularly limited, and examples thereof include  Escherichia coli . Specific strains of the  Escherichia coli  include prototype wild-type strain  Escherichia coli  B (ATCC 11303); and  Escherichia coli  W3110 (ATCC 27325) and  Escherichia coli  MG1655 (ATCC 47076), derived from the prototype wild-type strain K12. 
 Examples of representative strains of the  Pantoea  bacteria include  Pantoea ananatis, Pantoea stewartii, Pantoea agglomerans , and  Pantoea citrea . Specific examples thereof include the following strains. 
   Pantoea ananatis  AJ13355 (FERM BP-6614) (European Patent Application Laid-open No. 0952221) 
   Pantoea ananatis  AJ13356 (FERM BP-6615) (European Patent Application Laid-open No. 0952221) 
 Although these strains are described as  Enterobacter agglomerans  in European Patent Application Laid-open No. 0952221, the strains were reclassified into  Pantoea ananatis  as described above based on base sequence analysis of 16S rRNA and the like. 
 In recent years, some bacteria belonging to  Enterobacter  have been reclassified into  Pantoea agglomerans, Pantoea dispersa , or the like (International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology, 1989; 39(3): 337-345). Further, some bacteria belonging to  Erwinia  have been reclassified into  Pantoea ananas  or  Pantoea stewartii  (International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology, 1993; 43(1): 162-173). 
 Examples of the  Enterobacter  bacteria include  Enterobacter agglomerans  and  Enterobacter aerogenes . More specifically, strains exemplified in European Patent Application Laid-open No. 952221 may be used. Examples of representative strains of  Enterobacter  include  Enterobacter agglomerans  ATCC 12287. 
 The “coryneform bacteria” in the invention refers to the microorganisms belonging to  Corynebacterium, Brevibacterium , or  Microbacterium , as defined in Bergey's Manual of Determinative Bacteriology, 8, 599 (1974). 
 Examples of the coryneform bacteria further include microorganisms which had been classified into  Brevibacterium  but were reclassified later into  Corynebacterium  (International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology, 1991; 41(2): 255-260), and related bacteria such as microorganisms belonging to  Brevibacterium . Examples of the coryneform bacteria are listed below. 
 Examples of the coryneform bacteria include  Corynebacterium acetoacidophilum, Corynebacterium acetoglutamicum, Corynebacterium alkanolyticum, Corynebacterium callunae, Corynebacterium glutamicum, Corynebacterium lilium, Corynebacterium melassecola, Corynebacterium thermoaminogenes, Corynebacterium herculis, Brevibacterium divaricatum, Brevibacterium flavum, Brevibacterium immariophilum, Brevibacterium lactofermentum, Brevibacterium roseum, Brevibacterium saccharolyticum, Brevibacterium thiogenitalis, Corynebacterium ammoniagenes, Brevibacterium album, Brevibacterium cerinum , and  Microbacterium ammoniaphilum.    
 Specific examples of the  Corynebacterium  bacteria include the following strains. 
 That is, examples thereof include  Corynebacterium acetoacidophilum  ATCC 13870,  Corynebacterium acetoglutamicum  ATCC 15806,  Corynebacterium alkanolyticum  ATCC 21511,  Corynebacterium callunae  ATCC 15991,  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13020, ATCC 13032 and ATCC 13060,  Corynebacterium lilium  ATCC 15990,  Corynebacterium melassecola  ATCC 17965,  Corynebacterium thermoaminogenes  AJ 12340 (FERM BP-1539),  Corynebacterium herculis  ATCC13868 , Brevibacterium divaricatum  ATCC 14020 , Brevibacterium flavum  ATCC 13826, ATCC 14067, and AJ 12418 (FERM BP-2205),  Brevibacterium immariophilum  ATCC 14068 , Brevibacterium lactofermentum  ( Corynebacterium glutamicum ) ATCC 13869 , Brevibacterium roseum  ATCC 13825 , Brevibacterium saccharolyticum  ATCC 14066 , Brevibacterium thiogenitalis  ATCC 19240,  Corynebacterium ammoniagenes  ATCC 6871 and ATCC 6872 , Brevibacterium album  ATCC 15111 , Brevibacterium cerinum  ATCC 15112, and  Microbacterium ammoniaphilum  ATCC 15354. 
 In the second invention, a microorganism belonging to the genus  Aspergillus  or the genus  Cupriavidus  that does not have any of (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) above is used as a host. Examples of the  Aspergillus  fungi include  Aspergillus niger  (including variants such as  Aspergillus awamori  or  Aspergillus kawachii ),  Aspergillus terreus , and  Aspergillus itaconicus . Examples of the  Cupriavidus  bacteria include  Cupriavidus necator  (also known as  Alcaligenes eutropha, Ralstonia eutropha , or  Wautersia eutropha ). In the second invention, in a case in which citric acid is to be produced, it is preferable to use an  Aspergillus  fungus such as  Aspergillus niger . In a case in which itaconic acid is to be produced, it is preferable to use an  Aspergillus  fungus such as  Aspergillus terreus  or  Aspergillus itaconicus . In a case in which (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid is to be produced, it is preferable to use a  Cupriavidus  bacterium such as  Cupriavidus necator.    
 The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention may include a pathway of any kind that produce a metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate, or may be a microorganism in which an enzymatic activity associated with such a pathway is enhanced. Examples of the pathway include an isopropyl alcohol producing pathway, an acetone producing pathway, and a glutamic acid producing pathway. Hereinbelow, the microorganism that includes a pathway such as those described above and can produce a useful metabolite derived from acetyl-CoA is explained. 
 Microorganism Involved in Isopropyl Alcohol Production and Microorganism Involved in Acetone Production 
 The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention that includes an isopropyl alcohol production pathway can be obtained by constructing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention using a microorganism having an isopropyl alcohol production pathway as a host, or imparting or enhancing one or more enzymatic activities relating to the isopropyl alcohol production pathway in the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention. Hereinafter, the microorganism having an isopropyl alcohol production pathway may be referred to as “isopropyl alcohol-producing microorganism”, and  Escherichia coli  having an isopropyl alcohol production pathway may be referred to as “isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli”.    
 The isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  is an  Escherichia coli  having an isopropyl alcohol production pathway, and has an isopropyl alcohol production ability that has been introduced by a genetic recombination technique. The isopropyl alcohol production pathway may be any pathway that allows  Escherichia coli  of interest to produce isopropyl alcohol. In the isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  according to the invention, it is preferable that four enzymatic activities—a thiolase activity, a CoA transferase activity, an acetoacetate decarboxylase activity, and an isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase activity—are imparted or enhanced. 
 In a case in which the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention is used for producing acetone, a microorganism having thiolase activity, CoA transferase activity, and acetoacetate decarboxylase activity from among those involved in the isopropyl alcohol production pathway may be used. The microorganism does not have an isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase activity from among those involved in the isopropyl alcohol production pathway. 
 In a case in which the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention is a microorganism that is constructed using an  Escherichia  bacterium as a host, the following embodiments are preferable. 
 An example of preferable embodiments of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism is an  Escherichia  bacterium in which a thiolase activity, a CoA transferase activity, an acetoacetate decarboxylase activity, and an isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase activity have been imparted or enhanced. Such a microorganism allows efficient production of isopropyl alcohol. 
 Another example of preferable embodiments of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism is an  Escherichia  bacterium in which a thiolase activity, a CoA transferase activity, and an acetoacetate decarboxylase activity have been imparted or enhanced. Such a microorganism allows efficient production of acetone. 
 Hereinbelow, the details of the isopropyl alcohol production pathway and enzymes constituting the pathway are described. 
 Thiolase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 2.3.1.9, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing acetoacetyl-CoA from acetyl-CoA. Examples of thiolase include those from  Clostridium  bacteria such as  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or  Clostridium beijerinckii, Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli, Halobacterium  sp.,  Zoogloea  bacteria such as  Zoogloea ramigera, Rhizobium  sp.,  Bradyrhizobium  bacteria such as  Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Candida  such as  Candida tropicalis, Caulobacter  bacteria such as  Caulobacter crescentus, Streptomyces  bacteria such as  Streptomyces collinus , or  Enterococcus  bacteria such as  Enterococcus faecalis.    
 As a gene encoding thiolase, a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding thiolase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Clostridium  bacterium such as  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or  Clostridium beijerinckii ; an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli, Halobacterium  sp., a  Zoogloea  bacterium such as  Zoogloea ramigera, Rhizobium  sp., a  Bradyrhizobium  bacterium such as  Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Candida  such as  Candida tropicalis , a  Caulobacter  bacterium such as  Caulobacter crescentus , a  Streptomyces  bacterium such as  Streptomyces collinus , or an  Enterococcus  bacterium such as  Enterococcus faecalis . More preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a prokaryote such as a  Clostridium  bacterium or an  Escherichia  bacterium, and a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or  Escherichia coli  is still more preferable. 
 CoA transferase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 2.8.3.8, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing acetoacetate from acetoacetyl-CoA. Examples of CoA transferase include those from  Clostridium  bacteria such as  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or  Clostridium beijerinckii, Roseburia  bacteria such as  Roseburia intestinalis, Faecalibacterium  bacteria such as  Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Coprococcus  bacteria, trypanosomes such as  Trypanosoma brucei , or  Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli.    
 As a gene encoding CoA transferase, a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding CoA transferase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Clostridium  bacterium such as  Clostridium acetobutylicum , a  Roseburia  bacterium such as  Roseburia intestinalis , a  Faecalibacterium  bacterium such as  Faecalibacterium prausnitzii , a  Coprococcus  bacterium, trypanosomes such as  Trypanosoma brucei , or an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli . More preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Clostridium  bacterium or an  Escherichia  bacterium, and a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or  Escherichia coli  is still more preferable. 
 Acetoacetate decarboxylase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 4.1.1.4, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing acetone from acetoacetate. Examples of acetoacetate decarboxylase include those from  Clostridium  bacteria such as  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or  Clostridium beijerinckii , or  Bacillus  bacteria such as  Bacillus polymyxa.    
 As a gene encoding acetoacetate decarboxylase, a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding acetoacetate decarboxylase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Clostridium  bacterium such as  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or a  Bacillus  bacterium such as  Bacillus polymyxa . The DNA is more preferably a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Clostridium acetobutylicum.    
 Isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase, which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.1.1.80, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing isopropyl alcohol from acetone. Examples of isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase include those from  Clostridium  bacteria such as  Clostridium beijerinckii.    
 As a gene encoding isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase, a DNA having a base sequence of a gene encoding isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Clostridium  bacterium, such as  Clostridium beijerinckii.    
 From the viewpoint of the enzymatic activity, it is preferable that each of the above four kinds of enzymes is an enzyme from at least one selected from the group consisting of a  Clostridium  bacterium, a  Bacillus  bacterium, and an  Escherichia  bacterium. In particular, it is preferable that thiolase and CoA transferase are from an  Escherichia  bacterium, and acetoacetate decarboxylase and isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase are from a  Clostridium  bacterium or  Clostridium  bacteria. 
 From the viewpoint of the enzymatic activity, it is preferable that each of the above four kinds of enzymes is from at least one selected from the group consisting of  Clostridium acetobutylicum, Clostridium beijerinckii , and  Escherichia coli . It is more preferable that each of thiolase and CoA transferase is from  Clostridium acetobutylicum  or  Escherichia coli , that acetoacetate decarboxylase is from  Clostridium acetobutylicum , and that isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase is from  Clostridium beijerinckii . It is still more preferable that thiolase and CoA transferase are from  Escherichia coli , that acetoacetate decarboxylase is from  Clostridium acetobutylicum , and that isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase is from  Clostridium beijerinckii.    
 The CoA transferase genes (atoD and atoA) and the thiolase gene (atoB) from  Escherichia coli  form an operon on the genome of  Escherichia coli  in the order of atoD, atoA, and atoB (Journal of Bacteriology, 1987; 169(1): 42-52). Therefore, the expression of the CoA transferase gene and the thiolase gene can be simultaneously controlled by modifying the atoD promoter. 
 In a case in which the CoA transferase activity and the thiolase activity are those obtained from genomic genes of the host  Escherichia coli , it is preferable to enhance the expression of both enzyme genes by, for example, replacing the promoter responsible for the expression of both enzyme genes with another promoter, from the viewpoint of obtaining sufficient isopropyl alcohol production ability. Examples of the promoter that may be used for enhancing the expression of the CoA transferase activity and the thiolase activity include a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) promoter from  Escherichia coli . The GAPDH promoter from  Escherichia coli  is described at Base Nos. 397 to 440 in the base sequence information of GenBank accession number: X02662. 
 Examples of the isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  include a pIPA/B variant and a plaaa/B variant described in WO 2009/008377, which is capable of producing isopropyl alcohol from a plant-derived raw material. Examples thereof include a variant in which the CoA transferase activity and the thiolase activity are enhanced by enhancing the expression of the respective genes on the  Escherichia coli  genome, and in which the acetoacetate decarboxylase activity and the isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase activity are enhanced through introduction of a plasmid or plasmids (also referred to as “pIa/B::atoDAB variant” in this specification). Other examples of the isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  include microorganisms described in WO 2009/094485, WO 2009/094485, WO 2009/046929, or WO 2009/046929. 
 The isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  may be an isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  in which the transcriptional repressor GntR is inactivated, and which has an isopropyl alcohol production pathway and a group of auxiliary enzymes exhibiting an enzymatic activity pattern that maintains or enhances the improved isopropyl alcohol production ability associated with the inactivation of the GntR activity. Such  Escherichia coli  leads to greater production of isopropyl alcohol. 
 The term “group of auxiliary enzymes” in the invention refers to one enzyme or two or more enzymes, which affect(s) isopropyl alcohol production ability. The group of auxiliary enzymes is not necessarily constituted by plural enzymes, and may be constituted by single kind of enzyme. An activity of each enzyme included in the group of auxiliary enzymes is inactivated, activated, or enhanced. The phrase the “enzymatic activity pattern” of the “group of auxiliary enzymes” as used herein refers to an enzymatic activity pattern of respective enzymes that is capable of maintaining or enhancing the improved isopropyl alcohol production amount achieved solely by inactivation of the GntR activity, and may refer to one enzyme or a combination of two or more enzymes. 
 Examples of preferable enzymatic activity patterns of the group of auxiliary enzymes include the following: 
 (i) maintenance of wild-type activities of glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (Pgi), glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase (Zwf), and phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (Gnd); 
 (ii) inactivation of glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (Pgi) activity, and enhancement of glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase (Zwf) activity; and 
 (iii) inactivation of glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (Pgi) activity, enhancement of glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase (Zwf) activity, and inactivation of phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (Gnd) activity. 
 Among these, the enzymatic activity pattern of the group of auxiliary enzymes described in item (iii) above is more preferable, from the viewpoint of isopropyl alcohol production ability. 
 The group of auxiliary enzymes and the enzymatic activity pattern thereof are not limited to those described above. The invention encompasses any group of auxiliary enzymes and enzymatic activity pattern thereof as long the GntR activity is inactivated, and the amount of isopropyl alcohol production in the isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  can be increased due to the group of auxiliary enzymes and the enzymatic activity pattern thereof. 
 GntR refers to a transcription factor that negatively regulates an operon involved in gluconate metabolism via the Entner-Doudoroff pathway. GntR is a generic name for GntR transcriptional repressors that suppress the functions of two groups of genes (GntI and GntII), which are responsible for the uptake and metabolism of gluconic acid. 
 Glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (Pgi), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 5.3.1.9, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing D-fructose-6-phosphate from D-glucose-6-phosphate. 
 Glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase (Zwf), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.1.1.49, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing D-glucono-1,5-lactone-6-phosphate from D-glucose-6-phosphate. Examples of glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase include those from  Deinococcus  bacteria such as  Deinococcus radiophilus, Aspergillus  fungi such as  Aspergillus niger  or  Aspergillus aculeatus, Acetobacter  bacteria such as  Acetobacter hansenii, Thermotoga  bacteria such as  Thermotoga maritima, Cryptococcus  fungi such as  Cryptococcus neoformans, Dictyostelium  fungi such as  Dictyostelium discoideum, Pseudomonas  such as  Pseudomonas fluorescens  or  Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Saccharomyces  such as  Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Bacillus  bacteria such as  Bacillus megaterium , or  Escherichia  bacteria such as  Escherichia coli.    
 As a gene encoding glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase (Zwf), a DNA having a base sequence of gene encoding Zwf obtained from any of the above microorganisms, or a synthesized DNA sequence that is synthesized based on a known base sequence of the gene, may be used. Preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a  Deinococcus  bacterium such as  Deinococcus radiophilus , an  Aspergillus  fungus such as  Aspergillus niger  or  Aspergillus aculeatus ; an  Acetobacter  bacterium such as  Acetobacter hansenii , a  Thermotoga  bacterium such as  Thermotoga maritima , a  Cryptococcus  fungus such as  Cryptococcus neoformans , a  Dictyostelium  fungus such as  Dictyostelium discoideum, Pseudomonas  such as  Pseudomonas fluorescens  or  Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Saccharomyces  such as  Saccharomyces cerevisiae , a  Bacillus  bacterium such as  Bacillus megaterium , or an  Escherichia  bacterium such as  Escherichia coli . More preferable examples thereof include a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from a prokaryote such as a  Deinococcus  bacterium, an  Aspergillus  fungus, an  Acetobacter  bacterium, a  Thermotoga  bacterium,  Pseudomonas , a  Bacillus  bacterium, or an  Escherichia  bacterium. The DNA is more preferably a DNA having a base sequence of a gene from  Escherichia coli.    
 Phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (Gnd), which is classified as Enzyme Commission number: 1.1.1.44, is a generic name for enzymes that catalyze a reaction of producing D-ribulose-5-phosphate and CO 2  from 6-phospho-D-gluconate. 
 The above-described impartment or enhancement of the enzymatic activity can be achieved by introducing a gene into a host, or enhancing a promoter activity for the enzyme gene that the host possesses on the genome, or replacing the promoter with another promoter; or any combination thereof. 
 A promoter in the isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli  means a region to which an RNA polymerase having a sigma factor binds to start transcription. The promoter may be any promoter as long as it can control gene expression, and is preferably a potent promoter that constantly functions in the microorganism, and which is not susceptible to repression of expression even in the presence of glucose. Specific examples thereof include GAPDH promoter and a promoter of serine hydroxymethyltransferase. 
 In the isopropyl alcohol-producing  Escherichia coli , a gene (ldhA) encoding lactate dehydrogenase (LdhA) may be disrupted. The disruption of lactate dehydrogenase suppresses lactate production even under culture conditions in which oxygen supply is restricted, as a result of which isopropyl alcohol can be efficiently produced. The “conditions in which oxygen supply is restricted” generally means, in a case in which air alone is used as the gas for aeration with agitation of the culture liquid, conditions with 0.02 vvm to 2.0 vvm (vvm: aeration volume [mL]/liquid volume [mL]/time [min]) and an agitation speed of 200 to 600 rpm. The lactate dehydrogenase (LdhA) refers to an enzyme that produces D-lactate and NAD from pyruvate and NADH. 
 Microorganism Involved in Glutamate Production 
 The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention may have a pathway of any kind that produces glutamate producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate. Alternatively, the activity of one or more enzymes involved in a pathway that produces glutamate producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate may be enhanced in the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention. 
 The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention that has a glutamate production pathway can be obtained by constructing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention using a microorganism having a glutamate production pathway as a host, or imparting or enhancing any of the enzymatic activities relating to the glutamate production pathway in the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the invention. Hereinafter, the microorganism having a glutamate production pathway may be referred to as “glutamate-producing microorganism”. 
 Examples of the glutamate-producing microorganism include microorganisms having an ability to produce L-amino acids. 
 Specific examples of preferable glutamate-producing microorganisms include Enterobacteriaceae bacteria such as  Escherichia  bacteria and  Pantoea  bacteria, and coryneform bacteria such as  Corynebacterium glutamicum  in which the glutamate production pathway is imparted or enhanced. 
 A method of imparting the glutamate production ability to a microorganism or enhancing the glutamate production ability in a microorganism includes, for example, modifying the microorganism such that the expression of a gene encoding an enzyme involved in L-glutamate biosynthesis is increased and/or is overexpressed. Examples of the enzymes involved in L-glutamate biosynthesis include glutamate dehydrogenase, glutamine synthetase, glutamate synthase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, aconitate hydratase, citrate synthase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, pyruvate carboxylase, pyruvate dehydrogenase, pyruvate kinase, phosphoenolpyruvate synthase, enolase, phosphoglyceromutase, phosphoglycerate kinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, triose-phosphate isomerase, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase, phosphofructokinase, and glucose-phosphate isomerase. Among these enzymes, it is preferable to enhance the activity of one or more of citrate synthase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, or glutamate dehydrogenase, and it is more preferable to enhance the activity of all of the three enzymes. Examples of the glutamate-producing microorganism include a glutamate-producing microorganism described in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open (JP-A) No. 2005-278643. 
 For the L-glutamate-producing microorganism, a microorganism having an ability to accumulate L-glutamate in an amount exceeding the saturation concentration of L-glutamate in a liquid medium when the microorganism is cultured under acidic conditions (hereinafter referred to as “L-glutamate-accumulating ability under acidic conditions”) may be used. For example, a variant having increased resistance to L-glutamate in a low-pH environment may be obtained by a method described in European Patent Application Laid-open No. 1078989, whereby the ability to accumulate L-glutamate in an amount exceeding the saturation concentration is imparted to the microorganism according to the invention. 
 Specific examples of microorganisms having an intrinsic L-glutamate-accumulating ability under acidic conditions include  Pantoea ananatis  AJ13356 (FERM BP-6615) and AJ13601 (FERM BP-7207) (see European Patent Application Laid-open No. 0952221).  Pantoea ananatis  AJ13356 was deposited with National Institute of Bioscience and Human-Technology, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, Ministry of International Trade and Industry (present name: International Patent Organism Depositary, National Institute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE-IPOD)) under accession No. FERM P-16645 on Feb. 19, 1998, and then transferred to an international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty under accession No. FERM BP-6615 on Jan. 11, 1999. This strain was identified as  Enterobacter agglomerans  and deposited as  Enterobacter agglomerans  AJ13355 when first isolated, but, according to recent base sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA and the like, the strain was reclassified as  Pantoea ananatis  (see Examples below). Similarly, AJ13356 and AJ13601, strains derived from AJ13355, were deposited to the above depositary as  Enterobacter agglomerans , but these strains are described as  Pantoea ananatis  in the present specification. AJ13601 was deposited with National Institute of Bioscience and Human-Technology, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, Ministry of International Trade and Industry (present name: International Patent Organism Depositary, National Institute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE-IPOD) under accession No. FERM P-17156 on Aug. 18, 1999, and then transferred to an international depository authority under the Budapest Treaty under accession No. FERM BP-7207 on Jul. 6, 2000. 
 Other examples of the method of imparting or enhancing the L-glutamate production ability include a method of imparting resistance to an organic acid analogue or a respiratory inhibitor, and a method of imparting sensitivity to a cell wall synthesis inhibitor. Specific examples thereof include: a method of imparting resistance to monofluoroacetic acid (JP-A No. S50-113209); a method of imparting resistance to adenine or resistance to thymine (JP-A No. S57-065198); a method of weakening urease (JP-A No. S52-038088); a method of imparting resistance to malonic acid (JP-A No. S52-038088); a method of imparting resistance to benzopyrone or naphthoquinones (JP-A No. S56-001889); a method of imparting resistance to HOQNO (JP-A No. S56-140895); a method of imparting resistance to α-ketomalonic acid (JP-A No. S57-002689 A); a method of imparting resistance to guanidine (JP-A No. S56-035981), and a method of imparting resistance to penicillin (JP-A No. H04-088994). 
 Specific examples of such resistant microorganisms include the following strains. 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ3949 (FERM BP-2632; see JP-A No. S50-113209) 
   Corynebacterium glutamicum  AJ11628 (FERM P-5736; see JP-A No. S57-065198) 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ11355 (FERM P-5007; see JP-A No. S56-001889) 
   Corynebacterium glutamicum  AJ11368 (FERM P-5020; see JP-A S56-001889) 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ11217 (FERM P-4318; see JP-A No. S57-002689) 
   Corynebacterium glutamicum  AJ11218 (FERM P-4319; see JP-A No. S57-002689) 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ11564 (FERM P-5472; see JP-A No. S56-140895) 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ11439 (FERM P-5136; see JP-A No. S56-035981) 
   Corynebacterium glutamicum  H7684 (FERM BP-3004; see JP-A No. H04-088994) 
   Brevibacterium lactofermentum  AJ11426 (FERM P-5123; see JP-A No. S56-048890) 
   Corynebacterium glutamicum  AJ11440 (FERM P-5137; see JP-A No. S56-048890) 
   Brevibacterium lactofermentum  AJ11796 (FERM P-6402; see JP-A No. S58-158192) 
 Preferable examples of the microorganism having an L-glutamine production ability include a microorganism in which the glutamate dehydrogenase activity is enhanced, a microorganism in which the glutamine synthetase (glnA) activity is enhanced, and a microorganism in which the glutaminase gene is disrupted (see the specification of European Patent Application Laid-open Nos. 1229121 and 1424398). Enhancement of the glutamine synthetase activity can also be achieved by disrupting glutamine adenylyl transferase (glnE) or disrupting the PII regulation protein (glnB). Other preferable examples of the L-glutamine-producing microorganism include a variant belonging to genus  Escherichia  harboring a mutant glutamine synthetase in which the tyrosine residue at position 397 of glutamine synthetase is replaced by another amino acid residue (U.S. Patent Application Laid-open No. 2003-0148474). 
 Other examples of the method of imparting or enhancing the L-glutamine production ability include: a method of imparting resistance to 6-diazo-5-oxo-norleucine (JP-A No. H03-232497); a method of imparting resistance to a purine analogue and resistance to methionine sulfoxide (JP-A No. S61-202694); and a method of imparting resistance to α-ketomaleic acid (JP-A No. S56-151495). Specific examples of coryneform bacteria having the L-glutamine production ability include the following microorganisms. 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ11573 (FERM P-5492; JP-A No. S56-161495) 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ11576 (FERM BP-10381; JP-A No. S56-161495) 
   Brevibacterium flavum  AJ12212 (FERM P-8123; JP-A No. S61-202694) 
 Preferable examples of microorganisms that produce proline, leucine, isoleucine, valine, arginine, citrulline, ornithine, and/or polyglutamic acid include a microorganism described in JP-A No. 2010-41920. Microorganisms that produce acetic acid, (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid, itaconic acid, citric acid, and/or butyric acid are described in Fermentation Handbook (Kyoritsu Shuppan Co., Ltd.). Examples of microorganisms that produce 4-aminobutyric acid include a microorganism obtained by introducing glutamate decarboxylase into a glutamate-producing microorganism (JP-A No. 2011-167097). Examples of microorganisms that produce 4-hydroxybutyric acid include a microorganism obtained by introducing glutamate decarboxylase, transaminase, and/or aldehyde dehydrogenase into a glutamate-producing microorganism (JP-A No. 2009-171960). 
 Examples of microorganisms that produce 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid include a microorganism to which a pathway described in WO 2009/135074 or a pathway described in WO 2008/145737 has been introduced. Examples of microorganisms that produce 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid include a microorganism to which a pathway described in WO 2009/135074 or a pathway described in WO 2009/156214 has been introduced. Examples of microorganisms that produce 3-aminoisobutyric acid and/or methacrylic acid include a microorganism to which a pathway described in WO 2009/135074 has been introduced. 
 Method of Producing Acetyl-CoA and Method of Producing Metabolite Producible from Acetyl-CoA as Intermediate 
 A method of producing acetyl-coA and a method of producing a metabolite producible from acetyl-CoA as an intermediate according to the first invention include: a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the first invention while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material; and a collection step of collecting an intended product (acetyl-coA, or a metabolite producible from acetyl-coA as an intermediate) obtained by the contacting. Examples of the metabolites producible from acetyl-coA as an intermediate include acetone, isopropyl alcohol, and glutamic acid. In the invention, acetyl-coA and the metabolite producible from acetyl-coA as an intermediate may also be collectively referred to as “intended product”. 
 The method of producing acetyl-coA and the method of producing a metabolite producible from acetyl-coA as an intermediate according to the second invention include: a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism according to the second invention while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material; and a collection step of collecting an intended product (acetyl-coA, or a metabolite producible from acetyl-coA as an intermediate) obtained by the contacting. Examples of the metabolites producible from acetyl-coA as an intermediate include citric acid, itaconic acid, and (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid. In the invention, acetyl-coA and the metabolite producible from acetyl-coA as an intermediate may also be collectively referred to as “intended product”. 
 According to the production methods described above, since each microorganism is cultured while contacting the microorganism with a carbon source material, the carbon source material is assimilated by the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism and carbon dioxide is fixed, whereby an intended product can be efficiently produced. 
 The carbon source material is not specifically limited as long as the material contains a carbon source that can be assimilated by the microorganism, and the material is preferably a plant-derived raw material. The plant-derived raw material refers to an organ such as a root, a stem, a trunk, a branch, a leaf, a flower, and a seed; a plant body containing the organ; and a decomposition product of the plant organ. Furthermore, from among the carbon sources obtained from the plant body, the plant organ, or the decomposition product thereof, those that can be used as carbon sources by the microorganism during cultivation are also included within the scope of the plant-derived raw material. 
 General examples of carbon sources contained in the plant-derived raw material include sugars such as starch, sucrose, glucose, fructose, xylose, and arabinose; herbaceous or ligneous plant decomposition products containing the above ingredients in large amounts; cellulose hydrolysates; and any combinations thereof. The scope of the carbon source in the invention further includes vegetable oil-derived glycerin or a fatty acid. 
 Preferable examples of the plant-derived raw material include agricultural crops such as grain, specifically, corn, rice, wheat, soybean, sugarcane, beet, or cotton, and any combinations thereof. The form thereof as the raw material is not specifically limited, and may be a crude product, squeezed juice, a crushed product, or the like. Alternatively, the plant-derived raw material may be in a form that consists only of the carbon source described above. 
 The contact between the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism and the plant-derived raw material in the culture step is generally achieved by culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism in a culture medium containing the plant-derived raw material. 
 The density of contact between the plant-derived raw material and the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism may be varied depending on the activity of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism. In general, the concentration of the plant-derived raw material in the culture medium may be adjusted such that the initial sugar concentration in terms of glucose-equivalent sugar concentration is set to 20% by mass or less with respect to the total mass of the mixture (the mixture containing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism and carbon source material). From the viewpoint of sugar tolerance of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism, the initial sugar concentration is preferably set to 15% by mass or less. The addition amounts of other components are not particularly limited as long as they are amounts that are usually added to culture media for microorganisms. 
 The method of producing acetyl-coA according to the invention may further include a supply step of supplying a carbonate ion, a bicarbonate ion, carbon dioxide gas (carbon dioxide), and/or a reductant, to a culture medium used for cultivation. In a case in which a carbonate ion, a bicarbonate ion, and/or carbon dioxide gas is supplied to a culture medium used for cultivation, the activity of enzymes such as phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, pyruvate carboxylase, or phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase is enhanced and the fixation amount of carbon dioxide is increased, whereby an intended product can be efficiently produced. The conditions such as the temperature, pH, and the like in the supply step are the same as the conditions in the culture step unless otherwise specified. 
 Any carbonate ion or bicarbonate ion may be used as long as it is derived from a component capable of generating a carbonate ion and/or a bicarbonate ion when supplied to the culture medium. Examples of the component capable of generating a carbonate ion and/or a bicarbonate ion include sodium carbonate, sodium hydrogen carbonate, potassium carbonate, potassium hydrogen carbonate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium hydrogen carbonate, magnesium carbonate, and calcium carbonate. 
 The amount of carbonate ions and/or bicarbonate ions supplied to the culture medium is not particularly limited as long as the intended product can be efficiently produced. The total supply amount per 1 L of the culture medium is preferably 150 mmol or more. In a case in which 150 mmol or more of carbonate ions and/or bicarbonate ions is supplied, the yield of the intended product can be sufficiently increased. The total supply amount of carbonate ions and/or bicarbonate ions per 1 L of the culture medium is more preferably 200 mmol or more. 
 The total supply amount of carbonate ions and/or bicarbonate ions per 1 L of the culture medium is preferably 5 mol or less. In a case in which the total supply amount per 1 L of the culture medium is 5 mol or less, it is less likely that excessive amounts of carbonate ions and bicarbonate ions, which are not utilized by the microorganism cell in the culture step, are produced. The total supply amount of carbonate ions and/or bicarbonate ions per 1 L of the culture medium is more preferably 3 mol or less, and still more preferably 2 mol or less. 
 The method of supplying carbonate ions and/or bicarbonate ions may be a known method. The timing of supply is not specifically limited, and may be the beginning of the culture or during the culture. The carbonate ions and/or bicarbonate ions may be supplied in a batch, or may be supplied intermittently. 
 As the carbon dioxide gas, any carbon dioxide gas can be used as long as it is a gas including carbon dioxide. For example, the carbon dioxide gas may be air. The carbon dioxide concentration of the carbon dioxide gas is preferably higher than the carbon dioxide concentration in the air, more preferably 0.1% v/v or more, and still more preferably 1% v/v or more. 
 The carbon dioxide concentration is preferably 75% v/v or less, more preferably 50% v/v or less, and still more preferably 25% v/v or less. 
 The carbon dioxide gas can be dissolved in the culture medium by bubbling or the like. The average bubble diameter of the carbon dioxide gas to be supplied to the culture medium is not specifically limited as long as the intended product can be efficiently produced. For example, the carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 100 μm or more is preferable. In a case in which the carbon dioxide gas has an average bubble diameter of 100 μm or more, it is less likely that foamability of the culture medium increases drastically, and the increase in foamability makes it difficult to continue the fermentation. The carbon dioxide gas is more preferably one with an average bubble diameter of 200 μm or more, and more preferably carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 500 μm or more. The carbon dioxide gas is preferably carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 100 cm or less. Carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 100 cm or less is preferable, since carbon dioxide can sufficiently dissolve in the culture medium. The carbon dioxide gas is more preferably carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 50 cm or less, and more preferably carbon dioxide gas with an average bubble diameter of 20 cm or less. 
 The carbon dioxide gas can be supplied to the culture medium using a conventionally used bubble generator. Examples of the bubble generator include an air sparger. 
 Examples of the method of measuring the average bubble diameter include: a measuring method by a laser diffraction/scattering method using a particle size distribution measurement apparatus (for example,  LS  13 320 manufactured by Beckman Coulter); a measuring method based on a pore electrical resistance method using a precise particle size distribution measurement apparatus (for example,  MULTISIZER  3 manufactured by Beckman Coulter); and a method in which a gray-scale image is processed to make a binary image using a high-speed video camera. 
 The reductant is not particularly limited as long as it is a component that can reduce components in the culture medium or the microorganism cell during cultivation while the reductant itself is oxidized. Examples thereof include sulfides, carbon compounds, and hydrogen. Specific examples of sulfides include a sulfite (such as sodium sulfite, sodium hydrogen sulfite, potassium sulfite, or ammonium sulfite); a thiosulfate (such as sodium thiosulfate or potassium thiosulfate); a salt of a sulfide ion (such as sodium sulfide, sodium hydrogen sulfide, potassium sulfide, or ammonium sulfide); cysteine, sulfur dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide. Specific examples of the carbon compounds include alcohols, fatty acids, paraffin, and carbon oxide. The reductant is preferably a sulfide, more preferably sodium sulfite, sodium hydrogen sulfite, sodium sulfide, or cysteine, and still more preferably sodium sulfite. 
 The concentration of the reductant to be supplied to the culture medium is not particularly limited as long as the intended product can be efficiently produced, and may be appropriately set in accordance with the component to be supplied. For example, the concentration of sodium sulfite per 1 L of the culture medium is preferably 0.01 g/L or more, more preferably 0.1 g/L or more, and even more preferably 1 g/L or more. The concentration of the reductant to be supplied is preferably 50 g/L or less, more preferably 20 g/L or less, and even more preferably 10 g/L or less. 
 The acetyl-CoA production method according to the invention may further include a gas supply step of collecting a gas that contains carbon dioxide generated by the culturing and supplying the gas to a culture medium used for the culturing. That is, the carbon dioxide gas that is not consumed in the culture medium and is released as exhaust air may be circulated and reused by resupplying it to the culture medium. 
 The method of supplying the gas to the culture medium is not specifically limited as long as it is a conventionally used method. Examples thereof include a method in which a gas is pressurized and discharged to a liquid from a circular or plate-like member having fine pores (in a case in which the gas is air, the method is called an aerate method or an aeration method); a method in which a gas is supplied from a hollow pipe, called draft tube, that has voids on an entire side circumferential surface; and a method using an air sparger (gas dispersion apparatus in which a porous material having numerous pores for generating fine bubbles of air or the like is attached to the tip of a plastic or stainless tube). 
 The content of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism in the culture medium may be varied in accordance with the kind and the activity of the microorganism. Generally, a preculture bacterial liquid (OD 660 nm=4 to 8) may be added at the start of cultivation in an amount of from 0.1% by mass to 30% by mass with respect to the culture liquid, and preferably in an amount of from 1% by mass to 10% by mass from the viewpoint of controlling culture conditions. 
 The culture medium for culture of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism is not particularly limited as long as it is a culture medium that is usually employed and that includes a carbon source, a nitrogen source, and an inorganic ion, and further an inorganic trace element, a nucleic acid, and a vitamin, etc., required by the microorganism to produce the intended product. 
 In the first invention, the culture condition in the culture process is not particularly limited, and culturing may be carried out, for example, under aerobic conditions at an appropriately controlled pH and temperature within a range of pH 4 to 9 (preferably pH 6 to 8) and a range of 20° C. to 50° C. (preferably 25° C. to 42° C.). 
 In the second invention, the culture condition in the culture process is not particularly limited. In the case of  Aspergillus  fungi, culturing may be carried out, for example, under aerobic conditions at an appropriately controlled pH and temperature within a range of pH 1 to 10 (preferably  pH  3 to 7) and a range of 20° C. to 50° C. (preferably 25° C. to 42° C.). In the case of  Cupriavidus  bacteria, culturing may be carried out, for example, under aerobic conditions at an appropriately controlled pH and temperature within a range of pH 4 to 9 (preferably pH 6 to 8) and a range of 20° C. to 50° C. (preferably 25° C. to 42° C.). 
 The aeration volume of a gas into the mixture that contains the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism and the carbon source material is not particularly limited. In a case in which air alone is used as the gas, the aeration volume is generally from 0.02 vvm to 2.0 vvm (vvm: aeration volume [mL]/liquid volume [mL]/time [min]) at 50 to 600 rpm. From the viewpoint of suppressing physical damage to the microorganism, the aeration is carried out preferably at 0.1 vvm to 2.0 vvm, and more preferably at 0.1 vvm to 1.0 vvm. 
 The culture process may be continued from the beginning of the cultivation until the carbon source material in the mixture is exhausted, or until the activity of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism disappears. The duration of the culture process may be varied in accordance with the number and the activity of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism in the mixture and the amount of the carbon source material. In general, the duration may be at least one hour, and preferably at least four hours. In the culture process, the duration of the culture process may be continued indefinitely by addition of the carbon source material or the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism, However, from the viewpoint of process efficiency, the duration may generally be set to 5 days or less, preferably to 72 hours or less. With regard to other conditions, conditions employed for usual cultivation may be applied as they are. 
 The method of collecting an intended product accumulated in the culture medium is not particularly limited. Since the culture liquid obtained by the culture process is a mixture of the intended product and other component(s), a method in which the microorganism cell is removed from the culture medium by centrifugal separation or the like, and then the intended product is separated using a conventional separation method such as distillation or membrane separation under conditions suitable for the kind of the intended product, for example, may be applied. 
 The method of producing acetyl-CoA according to the invention may further include, before the culture process, a preculture process for achieving an appropriate number of cells and/or appropriate activated state of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism to be used. The preculture process may be any cultivation conducted under usually-employed conditions suitable for the type of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism. 
 Method of Producing Isopropyl Alcohol and Method of Producing Acetone 
 The method of producing isopropyl alcohol and the method of producing acetone according to the invention include producing an intended product, which is isopropyl alcohol or acetone, respectively, from a carbon source material using the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism. That is, each of the method of producing isopropyl alcohol and the method of producing acetone according to the invention includes a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material; and a collection step of collecting an intended product (isopropyl alcohol or acetone) obtained by the contacting. 
 The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism used in the method of producing isopropyl alcohol is preferably an acetyl-CoA producing microorganism having a thiolase activity, a CoA transferase activity, an acetoacetate decarboxylase activity, and an isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase activity, described above as a preferable example of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism, from the viewpoint of the efficiency of isopropyl alcohol production. 
 The acetyl-CoA producing microorganism used in the method of producing acetone is preferably an acetyl-CoA producing microorganism having a thiolase activity, a CoA transferase activity, and an acetoacetate decarboxylase activity, described above as a preferable example of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism, from the viewpoint of the efficiency of acetone production. 
 Each of the method of producing isopropyl alcohol and the method of producing acetone preferably includes a culture step in which the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism is cultured while supplying a gas into the mixture containing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism and the carbon source material (also referred to as “aeration culture step”); and an intended product collection step in which an intended product (isopropyl alcohol or acetone) produced by the culture step is separated and collected from the mixture. During the aeration culture in the aeration culture step, the intended product is released into the mixture, and evaporates from the mixture. As a result, the intended product can be easily separated from the mixture. Further, since the intended product is continuously separated from the mixture, an increase in the concentration of the intended product in the mixture can be suppressed. Therefore, it is not necessary to pay particular attention to the tolerance of the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism for the intended product. With regard to culture conditions, those described above shall apply as they are. 
 The method of collecting an intended product in the intended product collection step may be any method as long as the intended product in the gaseous or droplet state that evaporates from the mixture during cultivation can be collected. Examples thereof include a method of collecting the intended product into a collecting member such as a commonly-employed airtight container. In particular, the method preferably includes contacting a trap solution for trapping the intended product with the intended product separated from the mixture, from the viewpoint of collecting only the intended product with high purity. 
 In the method of producing isopropyl alcohol and the method of producing acetone, an intended product can be collected in a state in which the intended product is dissolved in a trap solution or the mixture. Examples of the collection method include a method described in WO 2009/008377. In a case in which the intended product collected is in the state of aqueous solution, the method according to the invention may further include a dehydration process. The dehydration of the intended product can be carried out by an ordinary method. The intended product collected can be confirmed using a usual detection means such as HPLC. The intended product collected may be further purified, if necessary. Examples of the purification method include distillation. 
 Examples of apparatuses applicable to the method of producing an intended product in which the intended product can be collected in the state being dissolved in the trap solution or the mixture include the production apparatus illustrated in FIG. 1 of WO 2009/008377. In this production apparatus, an injection pipe for injecting a gas from outside the apparatus is connected to a culture tank that contains a culture medium including the microorganism to be used and a plant-derived raw material, thereby enabling aeration to the culture medium. A trap tank that contains a trap solution (trap liquid) is connected to the culture tank via a connecting pipe. The intended product, which has been produced in the culture tank during aeration culture, evaporates due to aeration, and, therefore, can easily be separated from the culture medium. The gas or liquid that has moved to the trap tank contacts the trap solution, and bubbling occurs. As a result, the gas or liquid is trapped in the trap solution. By using this production apparatus, an intended product can be produced in a more purified state in a simple and continuous manner. 
 Method of Producing Glutamate 
 The method of producing glutamate according to the invention includes producing glutamate as an intended product from a carbon source material using the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism. Specifically, the method of producing glutamate according to the invention includes a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material; and a collection step of collecting an intended product (glutamate) obtained by the contacting. 
 According to the method of producing glutamate according to the invention, since the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism is cultured while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material, the carbon source material is assimilated by the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism, whereby glutamate can be efficiently produced while carbon dioxide is fixed. 
 The culture medium used for cultivation may be any culture medium usually employed that includes a carbon source, a nitrogen source, and an inorganic salt, and organic trace nutrients such as amino acids and vitamins. A synthetic culture medium and/or a natural culture medium may be used. Each of the carbon source and the nitrogen source used in the culture medium may be of any type that can be utilized by the microorganism to be cultured. 
 Examples of the carbon source include: a sugar such as glucose, glycerol, fructose, sucrose, maltose, mannose, galactose, starch hydrolysates, or molasses; an organic acid such as acetic acid or citric acid, and an alcohol such as ethanol. These carbon sources may be used singly or in combination with other carbon sources. Examples of the nitrogen source include ammonia, an ammonium salt such as ammonium sulfate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, or ammonium acetate, and a nitric acid salt. Examples of the inorganic salt include a phosphoric acid salt, a magnesium salt, a calcium salt, an iron salt, and a manganese salt. Examples of the organic trace nutrient include: an amino acid, a vitamin, a fatty acid, and a nucleic acid; and a peptone, a casamino acid, a yeast extract, and soybean protein hydrolysates, which contain the above ingredients. In a case in which an auxotrophic mutant that requires an amino acid or the like for growth is used, it is preferable to supply the required nutrient. 
 The culture is preferably carried out at a fermentation temperature of 20° C. to 45° C. and a pH of 3 to 9 under aeration. For adjusting pH, an inorganic or organic, acidic or alkaline substance, ammonia gas, etc. may be used. L-amino acid is accumulated in the culture medium or in the bacterial cells when the microorganism is cultured preferably for about 10 hours to about 120 hours under these conditions. 
 In a case in which the L-amino acid of interest is L-glutamate, the culture may be carried out while L-glutamate is precipitated in the culture medium, by using a liquid medium whose conditions are adjusted to precipitate L-glutamate. For example, the conditions to precipitate L-glutamate may be an acidic condition with pH 4.0 to 5.0, preferably pH 4.0 to 4.5, more preferably pH 4.0 to 4.3, and still more preferably pH 4.0. For achieving both increased growth under acidic conditions and efficient precipitation of L-glutamate, the pH is preferably from 4.0 to 5.0, more preferably from 4.0 to 4.5, and still more preferably from 4.0 to 4.3. Cultivation at the above-described pH may be carried out either throughout the whole culture period or during a part of the culture period. 
 The L-amino acid may be collected from the culture liquid according to a known collection method after completion of the culture. For example, the collection may be carried out by a method in which concentration crystallization is carried out after removal of bacterial cells from a culture medium, or by ion-exchange chromatography. In a case in which the culture is carried out under conditions that allow precipitation of L-glutamate in a culture medium, the L-glutamate precipitated in the culture medium can be collected by centrifugal separation, filtration, or the like. In such cases, L-glutamate dissolved in the culture medium may be collected together, after being crystallized. 
 Method of Producing Citric Acid, Method of Producing Itaconic Acid and Method of Producing (Poly)3-Hydroxybutyric Acid 
 Each of a method of producing citric acid, a method of producing itaconic acid, and a method of producing (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid according to the invention includes producing a corresponding intended product (citric acid, itaconic acid, or (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid) from a carbon source material using the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism. Specifically, the method of producing citric acid, the method of producing itaconic acid, and the method of producing (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid according to the invention include a culture step of culturing the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism while contacting the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism with a carbon source material; and a collection step of collecting an intended product (citric acid, itaconic acid, or (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid) obtained by the contacting. 
 According to the above respective methods, since the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism is cultured while the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism is contacted with a carbon source material, the carbon source material is assimilated by the acetyl-CoA producing microorganism, whereby an intended product (citric acid, itaconic acid, or (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid) can be efficiently produced while carbon dioxide is fixed. 
 The culture medium used for cultivation may be any culture medium usually employed that includes a carbon source, a nitrogen source, and an inorganic salt, and organic trace nutrients such as amino acids and vitamins. A synthetic culture medium and/or a natural culture medium may be used. Each of the carbon source and nitrogen source used in the culture medium may be of any type that can be utilized by the microorganism to be cultured. 
 Examples of the carbon source include: a sugar such as glucose, glycerol, fructose, sucrose, maltose, mannose, galactose, starch hydrolysates, or molasses; an organic acid such as acetic acid or citric acid, and an alcohol such as ethanol. These carbon sources may be used singly or in combination with other carbon sources. Examples of the nitrogen source include ammonia, an ammonium salt such as ammonium sulfate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, or ammonium acetate, and a nitric acid salt. Examples of the inorganic salt include a phosphoric acid salt, a magnesium salt, a calcium salt, an iron salt, and a manganese salt. Examples of the organic trace nutrients include: an amino acid, a vitamin, a fatty acid, and a nucleic acid; and a peptone, a casamino acid, a yeast extract, and soybean protein hydrolysates, which contain the above ingredients. In a case in which an auxotrophic mutant that requires an amino acid or the like for growth is used, it is preferable to supply the required nutrient. 
 In the method of producing citric acid, the method of producing itaconic acid, and the method of producing (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid according to the invention, an intended product (citric acid, itaconic acid, or (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid) can be collected in a state in which the intended product is dissolved in a culture liquid, in a state in which the intended product is precipitated, as a solid, from a culture liquid, or in a state in which the intended product is accumulated in bacterial cells. In a case in which the intended product collected is in the state of aqueous solution, the method according to the invention may further include a dehydration process. The dehydration of the intended product can be carried out by an ordinary method. The intended product collected can be confirmed using a usual detection means such as HPLC. The intended product collected may be further purified, if necessary. Examples of the purification method include crystallization, and purification by a column such as an ion-exchange resin. 
 Examples of a method of producing proline, leucine, isoleucine, valine, arginine, citrulline, ornithine, acetic acid, (poly)3-hydroxybutyric acid, itaconic acid, citric acid, butyric acid, or polyglutamic acid to which the microorganism according to the invention can be applied include methods described in p 363-p 364, p 61-p 63, p 61-p 63, p 61-p 63, p 40-p 42, p 40-p 42, p 40-p 42, p 189-p 192, p 377-p 378, p 64-p 65, p 124-p 125, p 19-p 23, and p 373, respectively, of Fermentation Handbook (Kyoritsu Shuppan Co., Ltd.). 
 Examples of a method of producing 4-aminobutyric acid to which the microorganism according to the invention can be applied include a production method using a microorganism obtained by introducing glutamate decarboxylase to a glutamate-producing microorganism (JP-A No. 2011-167097). 
 Examples of a method of producing 4-hydroxybutyric acid to which the microorganism according to the invention can be applied include a production method using a microorganism obtained by introducing glutamate decarboxylase, aminotransferase, and aldehyde dehydrogenase to a glutamate-producing microorganism (JP-A No. 2009-171960). 
 Examples of a method of producing 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid to which the microorganism according to the invention can be applied include a production method using a microorganism to which the pathway described in WO 2009/135074 or the pathway described in WO 2008/145737 is introduced. 
 Examples of a method of producing 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid to which the microorganism according to the invention can be applied include a production method using a microorganism to which the pathway described in WO 2009/135074 or the pathway described in WO 2009/156214 is introduced. 
 Examples of a method of producing 3-aminoisobutyric acid or methacrylic acid to which the microorganism according to the invention can be applied include a production method using a microorganism to which the pathway described in WO 2009/135074 is introduced. 
 EXAMPLES 
 The present invention will now be described in detail by reference to examples. However, the present invention is by no means restricted to the examples. 
 The promoter of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) from  Escherichia coli  can be used as a promoter necessary for expression of a gene introduced from outside the cell. The base sequence of the GAPDH promoter from  Escherichia coli  is indicated in Base Nos. 397 to 440 of the base sequence information of GenBank accession number X02662. In the following examples, the term “GAPDH promoter” refers to the GAPDH promoter as specified above. 
   Escherichia coli  MG1655 is available from ATCC (American Type Culture Collection). 
   Escherichia coli  B (ATCC 11303) is available from ATCC. 
 Genomic DNA (ATCC 33009D-5) of  Methylococcus capsulatus  ATCC 33009 is available from ATCC. 
   Corynebacterium  DSM 1412 is available from DSMZ (German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures). 
   Rhodococcus jostii  NBRC 16295 is available from NBRC (National Institute of Technology and Evaluation, Biological Resource Center). 
   Aspergillus niger  ATCC 1015 is available from ATCC. 
   Aspergillus terreus  NBRC 6365 is available from NBRC. 
   Cupriavidus necator  JMP 134 (DSM 4058) is available from DSMZ. 
 Example 1 
 <Preparation of Plasmid pMWGKC> 
 In order to obtain the GAPDH promoter, amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 as a template and using CGAGCTACATATGCAATGATTGACACGATTCCG (SEQ ID NO:42) and CGCGCGCATGCTATTTGTTAGTGAATAAAAGG (SEQ ID NO:43) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes NdeI and SphI to obtain an about 110 bp DNA fragment corresponding to the GAPDH promoter. This DNA fragment was mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting plasmid pBR322 (GenBank accession number J01749) with restriction enzymes NdeI and SphI, and the mixed fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells to obtain a plasmid pBRgapP. 
 Amplification was performed by PCR using this plasmid pBRgapP as a template and using CCGCTCGAGCATATGCTGTCGCAATGATTGACACG (SEQ ID NO:44) and GCTATTCCATATGCAGGGTTATTGTCTCATGAGC (SEQ ID NO:45) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was phosphorylated with T4 Polynucleotide Kinase (Takara) to obtain a DNA fragment containing the GAPDH promoter. 
 Plasmid pMW119 (GenBank accession number AB005476) was treated with restriction enzymes NdeI, and the ends of the resulting DNA fragment were blunted with KOD plus DNA Polymerase (Takara), thereby obtaining a DNA fragment containing the pMW119 replication origin. 
 The DNA fragment containing the GAPDH promoter and the DNA fragment containing the pMW119 replication origin were mixed and ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells to obtain a plasmid pMWG. 
 In order to obtain the chloramphenicol resistance gene, amplification was performed by PCR using pTH18cs1 (GenBank accession number AB019610) as a template and using TCGGCACGTAAGAGGTTCC (SEQ ID NO:46) and CGGGTCGAATTTGCTTTCG (SEQ ID NO:47) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was phosphorylated with T4 Polynucleotide Kinase (Takara) to obtain a DNA fragment containing the chloramphenicol resistance gene. Subsequently, amplification was performed by PCR using pMWG as a template and using CTAGATCTGACAGTAAGACGGGTAAGCC (SEQ ID NO:48) and CTAGATCTCAGGGTTATTGTCTCATGAGC (SEQ ID NO:49) as primers, and the resulting DNA fragment was mixed and ligated with the DNA fragment containing the chloramphenicol resistance gene using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and the resulting plasmid was named “pMWGC”. 
 Amplification was performed by PCR using the plasmid pMWGC as a template and using CCTTTGGTTAAAGGCTTTAAGATCTTCCAGTGGACAAACTATGCC (SEQ ID NO:50) and GGCATAGTTTGTCCACTGGAAGATCTTAAAGCCTTTAACCAAAGG (SEQ ID NO:51) as primers. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the amplification product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells to obtain a plasmid pMWGKC. 
 Example 2 
 <Construction of Expression Plasmid pMWGKC_Mcl(Mc)_Mtk(Mc) for Mtk and Mcl from  Methylococcus capsulatus  ATCC 33009> 
 PCR was carried out using the genomic DNA of  Methylococcus capsulatus  as a template and using GGAATTCCATATGGCTGTTAAAAATCGTCTAC (SEQ ID NO:52) and GCTCTAGATCAGAATCTGATTCCGTGTTC (SEQ ID NO:53) as primers, thereby obtaining a  Methylococcus  mcl-mtk fragment. A fragment obtained by cleaving this mcl-mtk fragment was ligated with a fragment obtained by cleaving the plasmid pMWGKC prepared in Example 1. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 30° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and the resulting plasmid was named “pMWGKC_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)”. 
 The pMWGKC_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc) includes the base sequence of the malyl-CoA lyase gene (mcl) (SEQ ID NO:41), the base sequence of the malate thiokinase a subunit gene (mtkA) (SEQ ID NO:28) and the base sequence of the malate thiokinase β subunit gene (mtkB) (SEQ ID NO:29) which are from  Methylococcus capsulatus . The amino acid sequence of the malyl-CoA lyase (Mcl), the amino acid sequence of the malate thiokinase a subunit (MtkA) and the amino acid sequence of the malate thiokinase β subunit (MtkB) which are from  Methylococcus capsulatus  are indicated in SEQ ID NO:36, SEQ ID NO:13 and SEQ ID NO:14, respectively. 
 Example 3 
 <Preparation of Plasmid pCASET> 
 Amplification was performed by PCR using pHSG298 (Takara) as a template and using CGCCTCGAGTGACTCATACCAGGCCTG (SEQ ID NO:54) and CGCCTCGAGGCAACACCTTCTTCACGAG (SEQ ID NO:55) as primers, and the resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzyme XhoI and ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL kanamycin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, and the plasmid, in which an XhoI recognition sequence was inserted in pHSG298, was named “pHSG298-XhoI”. 
 In order to obtain the tac promoter, amplification was performed by PCR using pKK223-3 (Pharmacia) as a template and using ATCATCCAGCTGTCAGGCAGCCATCGGAAG (SEQ ID NO:56) and ATCCCCGGGAATTCTGTT (SEQ ID NO:57) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes PvuII and SmaI to obtain an about 0.2 kbp DNA fragment encoding the tac promoter. 
 This DNA fragment encoding the tac promoter was mixed with an about 2.4 kbp DNA fragment prepared by digesting the plasmid pHSG298-XhoI with restriction enzyme PvuII and further treating the resultant with alkaline phosphatase, and these DNA fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL kanamycin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, as a result of which a plasmid pHSGT1 was obtained in which the lac promoter of pHSG298-XhoI was replaced by the tac promoter, the tac promoter having the same orientation as the original lac promoter. 
 In order to ligate the multicloning site of pHSG298 to a position in the obtained pHSGT1 that is downstream of the tac promoter, pHSG298 was digested with restriction enzymes EcoRI and ClaI to obtain an about 1.0 kbp DNA fragment containing the multicloning site of pHSG298. The obtained DNA fragment was mixed with an about 1.7 kbp DNA fragment prepared by digesting the plasmid pHSGT1 with restriction enzymes EcoRI and ClaI and further treating the resultant with alkaline phosphatase, and these DNA fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL kanamycin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, as a result of which a plasmid pHSGT2 was obtained in which the multicloning site of pHSG298 was ligated to a position that is downstream of the tac promoter. 
 A DNA fragment (SEQ ID NO:58) containing the replication origin, repA and repB of pCASE1 (Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology, 2009; 81: 1107-1115) isolated from  Corynebacterium casei  JCM12072 was prepared by DNA synthesis. The sequence thereof is indicated below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 SEQ ID NO: 58: 
 
 
 CGCCTCGAGCACTGGAAGGGTTCTTCAGGGGAACCCCCGGAAACCGGGGA 
 
 
   
 
 
 AACATCTGACTTGGTTAAATGTCGTATTATGAACACGCCGAGGAATGAAA 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACCGACCGTGCACGCTCGTGTGAGAAAGTCAGCTACATGAGACCAACTAC 
 
 
   
 
 
 CCGCCCTGAGGGACGCTTTGAGCAGCTGTGGCTGCCGCTGTGGCCATTGG 
 
 
   
 
 
 CAAGCGATGACCTCCGTGAGGGCATTTACCGCACCTCACGGAAGAACGCG 
 
 
   
 
 
 CTGGATAAGCGCTACGTCGAAGCCAATCCCGACGCGCTCTCTAACCTCCT 
 
 
   
 
 
 GGTCGTTGACATCGACCAGGAGGACGCGCTTTTGCGCTCTTTGTGGGACA 
 
 
   
 
 
 GGGAGGACTGGAGACCTAACGCGGTGGTTGAAAACCCCTTAAACGGGCAC 
 
 
   
 
 
 GCACACGCTGTCTGGGCGCTCGCGGAGCCATTTACCCGCACCGAATACGC 
 
 
   
 
 
 CAAACGCAAGCCTTTGGCCTATGCCGCGGCTGTCACCGAAGGCCTACGGC 
 
 
   
 
 
 GCTCTGTCGATGGCGATAGCGGATACTCCGGGCTGATCACCAAAAACCCC 
 
 
   
 
 
 GAGCACACTGCATGGGATAGTCACTGGATCACCGATAAGCTGTATACGCT 
 
 
   
 
 
 CGATGAGCTGCGCTTTTGGCTCGAAGAAACCGGCTTTATGCCGCCTGCGT 
 
 
   
 
 
 CCTGGAGGAAAACGCGGCGGTTCTCGCCAGTTGGTCTAGGTCGTAATTGC 
 
 
   
 
 
 GCACTCTTTGAAAGCGCACGTACGTGGGCATATCGGGAGGTCAGAAAGCA 
 
 
   
 
 
 TTTTGGAGACGCTGACGGCCTAGGCCGCGCAATCCAAACCACCGCGCAAG 
 
 
   
 
 
 CACTTAACCAAGAGCTGTTTGATGAACCACTACCTGTGGCCGAAGTTGAC 
 
 
   
 
 
 TGTATTGCCAGGTCAATCCATAAATGGATCATCACCAAGTCACGCATGTG 
 
 
   
 
 
 GACAGACGGCGCCGCCGTCTACGACGCCACATTCACCGCAATGCAATCCG 
 
 
   
 
 
 CACGCGGGAAGAAAGGCTGGCAACGAAGCGCTGAGGTGCGTCGTGAGGCT 
 
 
   
 
 
 GGACATACTCTTTGGAGGAACATTGGCTAAGGTTTATGCACGTTATCCAC 
 
 
   
 
 
 GCAACGGAAAAACAGCCCGCGAGCTGGCAGAACGTGCCGGTATGTCGGTG 
 
 
   
 
 
 AGAACAGCTCAACGATGGACTTCCGAACCGCGTGAAGTGTTCATTAAACG 
 
 
   
 
 
 TGCCAACGAGAAGCGTGCTCGCGTCCAGGAGCTGCGCGCCAAAGGTCTGT 
 
 
   
 
 
 CCATGCGCGCTATCGCGGCAGAGATTGGTTGCTCGGTGGGCACGGTTCAC 
 
 
   
 
 
 CGCTACGTCAAAGAAGTTGAAGAGAAGAAAACCGCGTAAATCCAGCGGTT 
 
 
   
 
 
 TAGTCACCCTCGGCGTGTTCAAAGTCCATCGTAACCAAGTCAGCTCGAGG 
 
 
   
 
 
 CG 
 
 
 
 
 
 A DNA fragment obtained by digesting the thus prepared DNA fragment with restriction enzyme XhoI was mixed with a DNA fragment prepared by digesting the plasmid pHSGT2 with restriction enzyme XhoI and further treating the resultant with alkaline phosphatase, and these DNA fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 mg/mL kanamycin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, and the plasmid, in which the DNA fragment containing the replication origin, repA and repB of pCASE1 was inserted at a XhoI recognition site of pHSGT2, was named “pCASET”. In the recovered pCASET, the orientation of the repA from pCASE1 was opposite to that of the tac promoter. 
 Example 4 
 <Construction of Expression Plasmid pCASET_Mcl(Mc)_Mtk(Mc) for Mtk and Mcl from  Methylococcus capsulatus>   
 PCR was carried out using pMWGKC_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc) (a gene containing mcl and mtk from  Methylococcus capsulatus ) as a template and using a primer pair of GGAATTCACAAAAAGGATAAAACAATGGCTGTCAAGAACCGTCTAC (SEQ ID NO:59) and CGAATTCTCAGAATCTGATTCCGTGTTCCTG (SEQ ID NO:60), thereby obtaining a DNA fragment containing  Methylococcus  mcl-mtk. Each of the primers of SEQ ID NO: 59 and SEQ ID NO:60 has an EcoRI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof. 
 The DNA fragment containing  Methylococcus  mcl-mtk and a fragment obtained by cleaving the plasmid pCASET prepared in Example 3 with EcoRI and dephosphorylating the resultant were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  JM109 strain competent cells (DNA-900, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL kanamycin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, and the plasmid, in which the mcl-mtk fragment was inserted in the direction appropriate for expression based on the promoter of the plasmid, was named “pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)”. 
 The plasmid pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc) includes the base sequence of mcl (SEQ ID NO:41), the base sequence of mtkA (SEQ ID NO:28) and the base sequence of mtkB (SEQ ID NO:29) which are from  Methylococcus capsulatus.    
 Example 5 
 <Construction of Mtk, Mcl, Gcl and GlxR Expression Plasmid for  Corynebacterium>   
   Rhodococcus jostii  NBRC 16295 was cultured in NBRC Medium No. 802, and a genomic DNA was obtained using DNeasy Blood & Tissue Kit (QIAGEN). PCR was carried out using this genomic DNA as a template and using CGAGCTCAAGCTTACAAAAAGGATAAAACAATGAGCACCATTGCATTCATCGG (SEQ ID NO:61) and CGGGATCCCTAGTCCAGCAGCATGAGAG (SEQ ID NO:62) as primers, thereby obtaining a  Rhodococcus  glxR-gcl fragment (SEQ ID NO:63). 
 A fragment obtained by digesting the  Rhodococcus  glxR-gcl fragment with restriction enzymes SacI and BamHI was ligated with a fragment obtained by digesting pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc) constructed in Example 4 with SacI and BamHI. Then,  Escherichia coli  JM109 strain competent cells (DNA-900, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL kanamycin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, and the plasmid, in which the glxR-gcl fragment was inserted in the pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc), was named “pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj)”. 
 The plasmid pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj) includes the base sequence of 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase (glxR) (SEQ ID NO:64) and the base sequence of glyoxylate carboligase (gcl) (SEQ ID NO:65) which are from  Rhodococcus jostii  in addition to the base sequence of mcl (SEQ ID NO:41), the base sequence of mtkA (SEQ ID NO:28) and the base sequence of mtkB (SEQ ID NO:29) which are from  Methylococcus capsulatus . The amino acid sequence of the 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase (GlxR) and the amino acid sequence of glyoxylate carboligase (Gel) which are from  Rhodococcus jostii  are indicated in SEQ ID NO:66 and SEQ ID NO:67, respectively. 
 Example 6 
 <Preparation of Plasmid pMWCBL> 
 Amplification was performed by PCR using pMWGKC prepared in Example 1 as a template and using ATCGATCTCGAGTTACCCGTCTTACTGTCAGATCTAG (SEQ ID NO:68) and ATCGATCTCGAGGCCTGTTGATGATACCGCTGCCTTA (SEQ ID NO:69) as primers, and the resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzyme XhoI and ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, and the plasmid, in which an XhoI recognition sequence was inserted in pMWGKC, was named “pMWGKC-XhoI”. 
 A plasmid pBL1 (Journal of General Microbiology, 1984; 130: 2237-2246) was prepared from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13869, and PCR was carried out using the obtained plasmid as a template and using a primer pair of CCGCTCGAGTCAACAACAAGACCCATCA (SEQ ID NO:70) and CCGCTCGAGCATGCACATGCAGTCATGT (SEQ ID NO:71), thereby amplifying an about 1.8 kb DNA fragment containing the replication origin and repA (SEQ ID NO:72). The sequence thereof is indicated below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 SEQ ID NO: 72: 
 
 
 CCGCTCGAGTCAACAACAAGACCCATCATAGTTTGCCCCCGCGACATTGA 
 
 
   
 
 
 CCATAAATTCATCGCACAAAATATCGAACGGGGTTTATGCCGCTTTTAGT 
 
 
   
 
 
 GGGTGCGAAGAATAGTCTGCTCATTACCCGCGAACACCGCCGCATTCAGA 
 
 
   
 
 
 TCACGCTTAGTAGCGTCCCCATGAGTAGGCAGAACCGCGTCCAAGTCCAC 
 
 
   
 
 
 ATCATCCATAACGATCATGCACGGGGTGGAATCCACACCCAGACTTGCCA 
 
 
   
 
 
 GCACCTCATTAGCGACACGTTGCGCAGCGGCCACGTCCTTAGCCTTATCC 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACGCAATCTAGAACGTACTGCCTAACCGCGAAATCAGACTGAATCAGTTT 
 
 
   
 
 
 CCAATCATCGGGCTTCACCAAAGCAACAGCAACGCGGGTTGATTCGACCC 
 
 
   
 
 
 GTTCCGGTGCTTCCAGACCGGCGAGCTTGTACAGTTCTTCTTCCATTTCA 
 
 
   
 
 
 CGACGTACATCAGCGTCTATGTAATCAATGCCCAAAGCACGCTTAGCCCC 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACGTGACCAGGACGAACGCAGGTTTTTAGAACCAACCTCATACTCACGCC 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACCGAGCCACCAAAACAGCGTCCATATCCTCGCCGGCGTCGCTTTGATCG 
 
 
   
 
 
 GCCAACATATCCAACATCTGAAACGGCGTGTACGACCCCTTAGACGCGGT 
 
 
   
 
 
 TTTAGTAGCGGAGCCAGTCAGTTCCTGAGACATGCCCTTAGCGAGGTAGG 
 
 
   
 
 
 TTGCCATTTTCGCAGCGTCTCCACCCCAGGTAGACACCTGATCAAGTTTG 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACCCCGTGCTCACGCAGTGGCGCGTCCATACCGGCCTTAACCACACCAGC 
 
 
   
 
 
 AGACCAGCGGGAAAACATGGAATCCTCAAACGCCTTGAGTTCATCGTCAG 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACAGTGGACGATCCAAGAACAACAGCATGTTGCGGTGCAAGTGCCAACCG 
 
 
   
 
 
 TTCGCCCAAGAGTCTGTGACCTCATAGTCACTATAGGTGTGCTCCACCCC 
 
 
   
 
 
 GTACCGTGCACGTTCTTTCTTCCACTGAGATGTTTTCACCATCGAAGAGT 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACGCAGTCTTAATACCCGCTTCAACCTGCGCAAATGACTGTGAGCGGTTG 
 
 
   
 
 
 TGTCGAACAGTGCCCACAAACATCATGAGCGCGCCACCCGCCGCCAAGTG 
 
 
   
 
 
 ATTCTTAGTAGCAATAGCCAGCTCAATGCGGCGTTCGCCCATGACTTCCA 
 
 
   
 
 
 ATTCAGCCAGAGGTGACCCCCAGCGAGAGTGAGAGTTTTGCAGACCCTCA 
 
 
   
 
 
 AACTGCGAAGCACCGTTAGACGACCAGGACACCGCAACAGCTTCGTCCCT 
 
 
   
 
 
 GCGCCACCTATGGCACCCCGCCAGAGCCTTACTATTGGTGATCTTGTACA 
 
 
   
 
 
 TGACGTTTTGCCTACGCCACGCCCTAGCGCGAGTGACCTTAGAACCCTCA 
 
 
   
 
 
 TTGACCTGCGGTTCCTTAGAGGTGTTCACTTCTATTTCAGTGTTACCTAG 
 
 
   
 
 
 ACCCGATGTTGTGCGGGGTTGCGCAGTGCGAGTTTGTGCGGGTGTTGTGC 
 
 
   
 
 
 CCGTTGTCTTAGCTAGTGCTATGGTTGTCAATTGAAACCCCTTCGGGTTA 
 
 
   
 
 
 TGTGGCCCCCGTGCATATGAGTTGGTAGCTCGCACGGGGGTTTGTCTTGT 
 
 
   
 
 
 CTAGGGACTATTAATTTTTAGTGGTGTTTGGTGGCCGCCTAGCTTGGCTA 
 
 
   
 
 
 TGCGTGCCAGCTTACCCGTACTCAATGTTAAAGATTTGCATCGACATGGG 
 
 
   
 
 
 AGGGTTACGTGTCCGATACCTAGGGGGGGTATCCGCGACTAGGTGCCCCG 
 
 
   
 
 
 GTGCTCACTGTCTGTACCGGCGGGGCAAGCCCCACACCCCGCATGGACAG 
 
 
   
 
 
 GGTGGCTCCGCCCCCTGCACCCCCAGCAATCTGCATGTACATGTTTTACA 
 
 
   
 
 
 CATTAGCACGACATGACTGCATGTGCATGCTCGAGCGG 
 
 
 
 
 
 A DNA fragment obtained by digesting the amplified DNA fragment with restriction enzyme XhoI was mixed with a DNA fragment obtained by digesting the plasmid pMWGKC-XhoI with restriction enzyme XhoI and further treating the resultant with alkaline phosphatase, and these DNA fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  JM109 strain competent cells (DNA-900, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, and the plasmid, in which the DNA fragment containing the replication origin and repA of pBL1 was inserted at the XhoI recognition site of pMWGKC-XhoI, was named “pMWCBL”. 
 Example 7 
 <Construction of Expression Plasmid pMWCBLpyc for Pyc from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032> 
 Referring to the base sequence of pyruvate carboxylase gene from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032 (GenBank accession number BA000036 GI:21323455), which are already made public, two primers AAGCGAGCTCACAAAAAGGATAAAACAATGTCGACTCACACATCTTCA (SEQ ID NO:73) and ATACATGCATGCTTAGGAAACGACGACGATCAA (SEQ ID NO:74) were synthesized. The primer of SEQ ID NO:73 has a SacI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof, and the primer of SEQ ID NO:74 has a SphI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof. 
 The genomic DNA of  Corynebacterium glutamicum  ATCC 13032 was prepared, and PCR was carried out using the obtained genomic DNA as a template and using the primer pair of SEQ ID NO:73 and SEQ ID NO:74, thereby amplifying an about 3.5 kb DNA fragment. This DNA fragment was digested with SacI and SphI, and the resulting DNA fragments were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and recovered. The recovered DNA fragments were mixed with pMWCBL that had been digested with SacI and SphI and further treated with alkaline phosphatase, and the mixed fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  JM109 strain competent cells (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. From the obtained transformant, a plasmid pMWCBL_pyc in which the pyruvate carboxylase gene was inserted in pMWCBL was recovered. 
 The plasmid pMWCBL_pyc includes the base sequence of the pyruvate carboxylase gene (pyc) from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  (SEQ ID NO:75). The amino acid sequence of pyruvate carboxylase (Pyc) from  Corynebacterium glutamicum  is indicated in SEQ ID NO:76. 
 Example 8 
 <Construction of  Corynebacterium glutamicum  Variants for Evaluation> 
 The plasmids constructed in Examples 3, 5 and 7 were individually employed to transform  Corynebacterium glutamicum  DSM 1412 (hereinafter also referred to as “CG strain”), serving as a host, by electroporation. The resulting variants were each applied to an LB agar medium containing 15 μg/mL kanamycin and/or 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and the variants that grew thereon were used for evaluation. These variants are summarized in Table 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 
 
 
   
 
 
 Variant Name 
 Strain Name/Plasmid 
 Feature 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 CG/vec1 
   C. glutamicam /pCASET 
 Possession of a 
 
 
   
   
 control vector 
 
 
 CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR 
   C. glutamicam / 
 Expression of mtk, 
 
 
   
 pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj) 
 mcl, gcl and glxR 
 
 
 CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR/vec2 
   C. glutamicam / 
 Expression of mtk, 
 
 
   
 pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj)/ 
 mcl, gcl and glxR 
 
 
   
 pMWCBL 
 Possession of a 
 
 
   
   
 control vector 
 
 
 CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR/pyc 
   C. glutamicam / 
 Expression of mtk, 
 
 
   
 pCASET_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj)/ 
 mcl, gcl and glxR 
 
 
   
 pMWCBL_pyc 
 Expression of pyc 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Reference Example 1 
 <Evaluation of  Corynebacterium  Variants Inparted with Mtk, Mcl, Gcl and glxR Genes> 
 The variants CG/vec1 and CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR constructed in Example 8 were individually cultured in 2-mL of LB liquid medium containing 15 μg/mL kanamycin at 30° C. with stirring at 280 rpm until sufficient growth was attained. Then, in a 100-mL Erlenmeyer flask equipped with a stirring baffles, 10 ml of a minimal medium for  Corynebacterium  containing 20 g/L glucose and 15 μg/mL kanamycin (30 g/L (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , 3 g/L Na 2 HPO 4 , 6 g/L KH 2 PO 4 , 2 g/L NaCl, 84 mg/L CaCl 2 , 3.9 mg/L FeCl 3 , 0.9 mg/L ZnSO 4 .7H 2 O, 0.3 mg/L CuCl 2 .H 2 O, 5.56 mg/L MnSO 4 .5H 2 O, 0.1 mg/L (NH 4 ) 6 Mo 7 O 24 .4H 2 O, 0.3 mg/L Na 2 B 4 O 7 .10H 2 O, 0.4 g/L MgSO 4 .7H 2 O, 40 mg/L FeSO 4 .7H 2 O, 500 μg/L Vitamin B1.HCl, 0.1 g/L EDTA and 10 μg/L biotin) was prepared. 1 mL of the culture liquid obtained by the cultivation in the LB liquid medium described above was added thereto, and cultivation was carried out for from 1 to 4 days until sufficient growth was attained, whereby a preculture liquid was obtained. From this preculture liquid, bacterial cells were collected by centrifugation (5,000 rpm for 5 minutes). 
 Next, 2 mL of the minimal medium for  Corynebacterium  (the biotin final concentration having been changed to 2 μg/L) which contained 100 mM sodium hydrogen carbonate (labeled with  13 C), 20 g/L glucose, 1.5% (w/v) Tween 60 (manufactured by Sigma-Aldrich Co. LLC.) and 15 μg/mL kanamycin was prepared, and the precultured bacterial cells were added thereto such that the OD was adjusted to be within a range of from 1 to 5. After hermetic capping, the bacterial cells were cultured at 30° C. with stirring at 150 rpm for from 1 to 2 days. The culture liquid was sampled periodically, and the bacterial cells were removed from the samples by centrifugation (using a centrifuge manufactured by Millipore Corporation at 12,000 rpm for 3 minutes). The supernatant was filtered through a hydrophilic PTFE membrane filter (MSGVN2B50, Millipore Corporation) to obtain a culture sample. 
 For quantification of glutamic acid in the culture sample, an HPLC (2695, manufactured by Waters Corporation) equipped with an NN-814 column (Showa Denko K.K.) and a UV/Vis detector (2489, Waters Corporation) were used. For quantification of glucose in the culture sample, an HPLC (2695, Waters Corporation) equipped with an ULTRON PS-80H column (Shinwa Chemical Industries Ltd.) and an RI detector (2414, Waters Corporation) were used. 
 As a result, the variant imparted with the mtk, mcl, gcl and glxR genes (CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR) exhibited a higher yield per sugar consumed than the control variant (CG/vec1). The improved yield per sugar consumed occurred presumably because a CO 2  fixation pathway was newly imparted by the introduction of the mtk, mcl, gcl and glxR genes into  Corynebacterium  and CO 2  fixed by this pathway was incorporated into glutamate via acetyl-CoA. The yield per sugar consumed was calculated as follows.
 
(Yield per sugar consumed)=(Amount of glutamic acid (g) generated)/(Amount of glucose (g) consumed)
 
 Example 9 
 <Evaluation of  Corynebacterium  Variant which is Imparted with Mtk, Mcl, Gcl and glxR Genes and in which Pyc Gene is Enhanced> 
 Cultivation and Analysis are carried out in the same manner as in Reference Example 1, except that the variants CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR/vec2 and CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR/pyc constructed in Example 8 are used for evaluation and that 15 μg/mL kanamycin and 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol are used as antibiotics added to the medium. As a result of the analysis, the variant in which pyc is enhanced (CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR/pyc) exhibits a higher yield per sugar consumed than the control variant (CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR/vec2). This suggests that, in  Corynebacterium  variants imparted with a CO 2  fixation pathway, enhancement of pyc gene is effective in improving the yield per sugar consumed. 
 Example 10 
 <Evaluation of Glutamic Acid Production Under Condition with Sodium Sulfite Addition> 
 The variant CG/mtk_mcl/gcl_glxR constructed in Example 8, serving as a variant to be evaluated, was inoculated into an LB medium containing 25 μg/mL kanamycin, and cultured at 30° C. for 2 days. Then, 100 μL of the resulting culture liquid was applied to a LB plate that contained 25 μg/mL kanamycin and that had a diameter of 9 cm, and cultivation was carried out at 30° C. for 2 days. Then, bacterial cells in a region that is ⅛ of the total area of the plate were collected by scraping, and inoculated into 5 mL of a minimal medium for  Corynebacterium  strains (60 g/L glucose, 30 g/L (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , 1 g/L KH 2 PO 4 , 0.4 g/L MgSO 4 .7H 2 O, 0.01 g/L FeSO 4 .7H 2 O, 0.01 g/L MnSO 4 .5H 2 O, 200 μg/L thiamine.HCl, 5.1 g/L SOYTONE (Bacto Laboratories Pty Ltd.) and 25 μg/mL kanamycin; pH8.0) that contained 20 μg/L biotin. The bacterial cells were cultured with 0.25 g calcium carbonate in a 125-mL baffle-equipped Erlenmeyer flask for one day at 31.5° C. with stirring at 270 rpm, thereby obtaining a preculture liquid. 
 0.25 mL of the preculture liquid was inoculated into 5 mL of a minimal medium for  Corynebacterium  strains, and sodium sulfite (reducing agent) was further supplied thereto such that the final concentration of sodium sulfite would be 5 g/L. Cultivation was performed with 0.25 g calcium carbonate in a 125-mL baffle-equipped Erlenmeyer flask for 2 days at 31.5° C. with stirring at 270 rpm, thereby obtaining a main culture liquid. 
 The test group with the supply of sodium sulfite was named “test group with supply of sodium sulfite”. A “test group without supply of sodium sulfite” was also prepared as a control, following the same procedures as those described above except that sodium sulfite was not added. 
 As a result of analysis, while the yield per sugar consumed in the test group without supply of sodium sulfite was 44%, the yield per sugar consumed observed in the test group with supply of sodium sulfite was 50%. From the results, improvement of the yield due to the addition of sodium sulfite was confirmed. 
 The OD620 nm values of the culture liquids were measured. Unexpectedly, the OD was 50 in the test group without supply of sodium sulfite while the OD was 29 in the test group with supply of sodium sulfite. Therefore, it was also confirmed that the addition of sodium sulfite has an effect in terms of suppressing an increase in the bacterial cell amount. The suppression of an increase in the bacterial cell amount enables suppression of an increase in the cost incurred for processing waste bacterial cells. 
 Example 11 
 <Preparation of  Escherichia coli  B Strain atoD Genome-Enhanced Variant> 
 The whole base sequence of the genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 is known (GenBank accession number U00096), and the base sequence of a gene encoding the CoA transferase α subunit of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 (hereinafter also referred to as “atoD”) has also been reported. Specifically, atoD is indicated in Base Nos. 2321469 to 2322131 of the  Escherichia coli  MG1655 genomic sequence registered with GenBank accession number U00096. 
 In order to obtain a GAPDH promoter, amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 as a template and using CGCTCAATTGCAATGATTGACACGATTCCG (SEQ ID NO:77) and ACAGAATTCGCTATTTGTTAGTGAATAAAAGG (SEQ ID NO:78) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes MfeI and EcoRI to obtain an about 100 bp DNA fragment encoding the GAPDH promoter. 
 The obtained DNA fragment was mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the plasmid pUC19 (GenBank accession number X02514) with restriction enzyme EcoRI and further treating the resultant with alkaline phosphatase, and the mixed fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and transformants growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin were obtained. Ten of the resulting colonies were individually cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and plasmids were recovered. Plasmids from which the GAPDH promoter was not excised when digested with restriction enzymes EcoRI and KpnI were selected, and their DNA sequences were read. A plasmid in which the GAPDH promoter was correctly inserted was named “pUCgapP”. The plasmid pUCgapP obtained was digested with restriction enzymes EcoRI and KpnI. 
 In order to obtain atoD, amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 as a template and using CGAATTCGCTGGTGGAACATATGAAAACAAAATTGATGACATTACAAGAC (SEQ ID NO:79) and GCGGTACCTTATTTGCTCTCCTGTGAAACG (SEQ ID NO:80) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes EcoRI and KpnI to obtain an about 690 bp atoD fragment. This DNA fragment was mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the pUCgapP with restriction enzymes EcoRI and KpnI, and these fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (DNA-903, TOYOBO Co., Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells, and it was confirmed that atoD was correctly inserted. This plasmid was named “pGAPatoD”. 
 PCR was carried out using the genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 as a template and using GCTCTAGATGCTGAAATCCACTAGTCTTGTC (SEQ ID NO:81) and TACTGCAGCGTTCCAGCACCTTATCAACC (SEQ ID NO:82) as primers, which were prepared based on the genetic information of the 5′-flanking region of atoD of  Escherichia coli  MG1655. As a result, an about 1.1 kbp DNA fragment was amplified. 
 PCR was also carried out using the plasmid pGAPatoD as a template and using primer GGTCTAGAGCAATGATTGACACGATTCCG (SEQ ID NO:83) which was prepared based on the sequence information of the GAPDH promoter of  Escherichia coli  MG1655, and primer GCGGTACCTTATTTGCTCTCCTGTGAAACG (SEQ ID NO:84) which was prepared based on the sequence information of atoD of  Escherichia coli  MG1655. As a result, an about 790 bp DNA fragment composed of the GAPDH promoter and atoD was obtained. 
 The about 1.1 kbp DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes PstI and XbaI, and the about 790 bp DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes XbaI and KpnI. The resulting fragments were mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the temperature-sensitive plasmid pTH18cs1 (GenBank accession number AB019610) (Gene, 2000; 241: 185-191) with restriction enzymes PstI and KpnI, and the mixed fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then, DH5α strain was transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 30° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells.  Escherichia coli  B (ATCC 11303) was transformed with this plasmid, and then cultured overnight at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, as a result of which a transformant was obtained. The transformant was inoculated into an LB liquid medium containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and cultured overnight at 30° C. The resulting cultured bacterial cells were applied to an LB agar plate containing 10 mg/mL chloramphenicol, and cultured at 42° C., and a colony was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured in an antibiotic-free LB liquid medium at 30° C. for 2 hours, and then applied to an antibiotic-free LB agar plate, as a result of which a colony growing at 42° C. was obtained. 
 From the colonies that appeared, 100 colonies were randomly picked. Each of the colonies was allowed to grow on an antibiotic-free LB agar plate and on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and chloramphenicol-sensitive clones were selected. Further, from the chromosomal DNAs of these clones, an about 790 bp fragment containing the GAPDH promoter and atoD was amplified by PCR, and a variant in which the atoD promoter region was replaced by the GAPDH promoter was selected. A clone satisfying the above-described conditions was named “ Escherichia coli  B strain atoD genome-enhanced variant” (hereinafter also referred to as “B::atoDAB variant”). 
 Example 12 
 <Preparation of  Escherichia coli  B Strain atoD Genome-Enhanced and Pgi Gene-Deleted Variant> 
 The whole base sequence of the genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 is known (GenBank accession number U00096), and the base sequence of a gene (pgi) encoding phosphoglucose isomerase of  Escherichia coli  has also been reported (GenBank accession number X15196). 
 In order to clone flanking regions of the pgi-encoding gene (1,650 bp), four primers, specifically, CAGGAATTCGCTATATCTGGCTCTGCACG (SEQ ID NO:85), CAGTCTAGAGCAATACTCTTCTGATTTTGAG (SEQ ID NO:86), CAGTCTAGATCATCGTCGATATGTAGGCC (SEQ ID NO:87) and GACCTGCAGATCATCCGTCAGCTGTACGC (SEQ ID NO:88), were synthesized. The primer of SEQ ID NO:85 has an EcoRI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof; each of the primers of SEQ ID NO:86 and SEQ ID NO:87 has an XbaI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof; and the primer of SEQ ID NO:88 has a PstI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof. 
 The genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 (ATCC 700926) was prepared, and PCR was carried out using the obtained genomic DNA as a template and a primer pair of SEQ ID NO:85 and SEQ ID NO:86, thereby amplifying an about 1.0 kb DNA fragment (hereinafter also referred to as “pgi-L fragment”). Further, PCR was also carried out using a primer pair of SEQ ID NO:87 and SEQ ID NO:88, thereby amplifying an about 1.0 kb DNA fragment (hereinafter also referred to as “pgi-R fragment”). These DNA fragments were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and recovered. The pgi-L fragment was digested with EcoRI and XbaI, and the pgi-R fragment was digested with XbaI and PstI. The resulting two types of digested fragments and a fragment produced by digesting the temperature-sensitive plasmid pTH18cs1 (GenBank accession number AB019610) with EcoRI and PstI were mixed and allowed to ligate using T4 DNA ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (TOYOBO Co, Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the obtained transformant, and it was confirmed that the two fragments, which are the 5′-upstream flanking region fragment and 3′-downstream flanking region fragment of the pgi-encoding gene, were correctly inserted in pTH18cs1. The obtained plasmid was digested with XbaI and then subjected to a blunting treatment with T4 DNA polymerase. Using T4 DNA ligase, the resulting DNA fragment was ligated with a DNA fragment obtained by digesting the pUC4K plasmid (GenBank accession number X06404) (Pharmacia) with EcoRI and further subjecting the obtained kanamycin resistance gene to a blunting treatment with T4 DNA polymerase. Thereafter,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol and 50 μg/mL kanamycin was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the obtained transformant, and it was confirmed that the kanamycin resistance gene was correctly inserted between the 5′-upstream flanking region fragment and the 3′-downstream flanking region fragment of the pgi-encoding gene. This plasmid was named “pTH18cs1-pgi”. 
 The B::atoDAB variant prepared in Example 11 was transformed with the obtained plasmid pTH18cs1-pgi and cultured overnight at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol and 50 μg/mL kanamycin, thereby obtaining a transformant. The obtained transformant was inoculated into an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin, and cultured overnight at 30° C. Then, a portion of the culture liquid was applied to an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin, as a result of which a colony growing at 42° C. was obtained. The obtained colony was further cultured in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin at 30° C. for 24 hours, and applied to an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin, as a result of which a colony growing at 42° C. was obtained. 
 From the colonies that appeared, 100 colonies were randomly picked. Each of the colonies was allowed to grow on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin and on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and chloramphenicol-sensitive clones that grew only on the kanamycin-containing LB agar plate were selected. Further, PCR was carried out using the chromosomal DNAs of these clones as templates, and a variant from which an about 3.3 kbp fragment could be amplified due to replacement of the pgi gene by the kanamycin resistance gene was selected. The variant obtained was named “ Escherichia coli  B strain atoD genome-enhanced and pgi gene-deleted variant” (hereinafter also referred to as “B::atoDABΔpgi variant”). 
 Example 13 
 <Preparation of  Escherichia coli  B Strain atoD Genome-Enhanced, Pgi Gene-Deleted and gntR Gene-Deleted Variant> 
 The whole base sequence of the genomic DNA of the  Escherichia coli  B is known (GenBank accession number CP000819), and the base sequence of the gene encoding transcriptional repressor GntR is indicated in Base Nos. 3509184 to 3510179 of the  Escherichia coli  B genomic sequence registered with GenBank accession number CP000819. 
 In order to clone a flanking region of the GntR-encoding gene (gntR), four primers, specifically, GGAATTCGGGTCAATTTTCACCCTCTATC (SEQ ID NO:89), GTGGGCCGTCCTGAAGGTACAAAAGAGATAGATTCTC (SEQ ID NO:90), CTCTTTTGTACCTTCAGGACGGCCCACAAATTTGAAG (SEQ ID NO:91) and GGAATTCCCAGCCCCGCAAGGCCGATGGC (SEQ ID NO:92), were synthesized. Each of the primers of SEQ ID NO:89 and SEQ ID NO:92 has an EcoRI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof. 
 The genomic DNA of the  Escherichia coli  B strain (GenBank accession number CP000819) was prepared, and PCR was carried out using the obtained genomic DNA as a template and a primer pair of SEQ ID NO:89 and SEQ ID NO:90, thereby amplifying an about 1.0 kb DNA fragment (hereinafter also referred to as “gntR-L fragment”). Further, PCR was also carried out using a primer pair of SEQ ID NO:91 and SEQ ID NO:92 to amplify an about 1.0 kb DNA fragment (hereinafter also referred to as “gntR-R fragment”). These DNA fragments were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and recovered, and PCR was carried out using the gntR-L fragment and the gntR-R fragment as templates and a primer pair of SEQ ID NO:89 and SEQ ID NO:92, thereby amplifying an about 2.0 kbp DNA fragment (hereinafter also referred to as “gntR-LR fragment”). This gntR-LR fragment was separated by agarose gel electrophoresis, recovered, digested with EcoRI, and then mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the temperature-sensitive plasmid pTH18cs1 (GenBank accession number AB019610) with EcoRI and dephosphorylating the digestion product. After allowing the mixed fragments to react with each other using T4 DNA ligase,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (TOYOBO Co, Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the obtained transformant, and it was confirmed that the gntLR fragment was correctly inserted in pTH18cs1. This plasmid was named “pTH18cs1-gntR”. 
 The B::atoDABΔpgi variant prepared in Example 12 was transformed with the obtained plasmid pTH18cs1-gntR, and cultured overnight at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, thereby obtaining a transformant. The obtained transformant was inoculated into an LB liquid medium containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol and cultured overnight at 30° C. Then, a portion of the culture liquid was applied to an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, as a result of which a colony growing at 42° C. was obtained. The obtained colony was further cultured in an LB liquid medium at 30° C. for 24 hours, and applied to an LB agar plate, as a result of which a colony growing at 42° C. was obtained. 
 From the colonies that appeared, 100 colonies were randomly picked. Each of the colonies was allowed to grow on an LB agar plate and on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and chloramphenicol-sensitive clones were selected. Further, PCR was carried out using the chromosomal DNAs of these clones as templates, and a variant from which an about 2.0 kbp fragment could be amplified due to the deletion of the gntR gene was selected. The variant obtained was named “ Escherichia coli  B strain atoD genome-enhanced, pgi gene-deleted and gntR gene-deleted variant” (hereinafter also referred to as “B::atoDABΔpgiΔgntR variant”). 
 Example 14 
 <Preparation of  Escherichia coli  B Strain atoD Genome-Enhanced, Pgi Gene-Deleted, gntR Gene-Deleted and Gnd Gene-Deleted Variant> 
 In order to clone a flanking region of the gene (gnd) encoding the phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, four primers, specifically, CGCCATATGAATGGCGCGGCGGGGCCGGTGG (SEQ ID NO:93), TGGAGCTCTGTTTACTCCTGTCAGGGGG (SEQ ID NO:94), TGGAGCTCTCTGATTTAATCAACAATAAAATTG (SEQ ID NO:95) and CGGGATCCACCACCATAACCAAACGACGG (SEQ ID NO:96), were synthesized. The primer of SEQ ID NO:93 has an NdeI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof; each of the primers of SEQ ID NO:94 and SEQ ID NO:95 has a SacI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof; and the primer of SEQ ID NO:96 has a BamHI recognition site in a 5′-end region thereof. 
 The genomic DNA of the  Escherichia coli  B strain (GenBank accession number CP000819) was prepared, and PCR thereof was carried out using a primer pair of SEQ ID NO:93 and SEQ ID NO:94, thereby amplifying an about 1.0 kb DNA fragment (hereinafter also referred to as “gnd-L fragment”). Further, PCR was also carried out using a primer pair of SEQ ID NO:95 and SEQ ID NO:96 to amplify an about 1.0 kb DNA fragment (hereinafter also referred to as “gnd-R fragment”). These DNA fragments were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and recovered. The gnd-L fragment was digested with NdeI and SacI, and the gnd-R fragment was digested with SacI and BamHI. The resulting two types of digested fragments and a fragment obtained by digesting the temperature-sensitive plasmid pTH18cs1 (GenBank accession number AB019610) with NdeI and BamHI were mixed and allowed to ligate using T4 DNA ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells (TOYOBO Co, Ltd.) were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. A plasmid was recovered from the obtained transformant, and it was confirmed that the two fragments, which are the 5′-upstream flanking region fragment and 3′-downstream flanking region fragment of the gnd-encoding gene, were correctly inserted in pTH18cs1. This plasmid was named “pTH18cs1-gnd”. 
 The B::atoDABΔpgiΔgntR variant prepared in Example 13 was transformed with the obtained plasmid pTH18cs1-gnd, and cultured overnight at 30° C. on an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, thereby obtaining a transformant. The obtained transformant was inoculated into an LB liquid medium containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and cultured overnight at 30° C. Then, a portion of the culture liquid was applied to an LB agar plate containing 10 μg/mL chloramphenicol, as a result of which a colony growing at 42° C. was obtained. The obtained colony was further cultured in an LB liquid medium at 30° C. for 24 hours, and the resulting culture medium was applied to an LB agar plate, as a result of which a colony growing at 42° C. was obtained. 
 From the colonies that appeared, 100 colonies were randomly picked. Each of the colonies was allowed to grow on an LB agar plate and on an LB agar plate containing 10 ng/mL chloramphenicol, and chloramphenicol-sensitive clones were selected. Further, PCR was carried out using the chromosomal DNAs of these clones as templates, and a variant from which an about 2.0 kbp fragment could be amplified due to the deletion of the gnd gene was selected. The variant obtained was named “ Escherichia coli  B strain atoD genome-enhanced, pgi gene-deleted, gntR gene-deleted and gnd gene-deleted variant” (hereinafter also referred to as “B::atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd variant”). 
 Example 15 
 <Preparation of Plasmid pIaz> 
 Acetoacetate decarboxylase of  Clostridium  bacteria is described in GenBank accession number M55392, and isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase of  Clostridium  bacteria is described in GenBank accession number AF157307. 
 A plasmid pBRgapP was prepared in the same manner as that in Example 1. 
 In order to obtain the isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase gene, amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of  Clostridium beijerinckii  NRRL B-593 as a template and using AATATGCATGCTGGTGGAACATATGAAAGGTTTTGCAATGCTAGG (SEQ ID NO:97) and ACGCGTCGACTTATAATATAACTACTGCTTTAATTAAGTC (SEQ ID NO:98) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes SphI and SalI to obtain an about 1.1 kbp isopropyl alcohol dehydrogenase fragment. The obtained DNA fragment was mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the plasmid pUC119 with restriction enzymes SphI and SalI, and these fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells. It was confirmed that IPAdh was correctly inserted, and this plasmid was named “pUC-I”. 
 An IPAdh-containing fragment obtained by digesting the plasmid pUC-I with restriction enzymes SphI and EcoRI was mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the plasmid pBRgapP with restriction enzymes SphI and EcoRI, and these fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells. It was confirmed that IPAdh was correctly inserted, and this plasmid was named “pGAP-I”. 
 In order to obtain the acetoacetate decarboxylase gene, amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of  Clostridium acetobutylicum  ATCC824 as a template and using ACGCGTCGACGCTGGTGGAACATATGTTAAAGGATGAAGTAATTAAACAAATTAGC (SEQ ID NO:99) and GCTCTAGAGGTACCTTACTTAAGATAATCATATATAACTTCAGC (SEQ ID NO:100) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes SalI and XbaI to obtain an about 700 bp acetoacetate decarboxylase fragment. The obtained DNA fragment was mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the plasmid pGAP-I with restriction enzymes SalI and XbaI, and these fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells. It was confirmed that adc was correctly inserted, and this plasmid was named “pIa”. 
 In order to obtain the glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase gene (zwf), amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of the  Escherichia coli  B strain (GenBank accession number CP000819) as a template and using GCTCTAGACGGAGAAAGTCTTATGGCGGTAACGCAAACAGCCCAGG (SEQ ID NO:101) and CGGGATCCCGGAGAAAGTCTTATGAAGCAAACAGTTTATATCGCC (SEQ ID NO:102) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes XbaI and BamHI to obtain an about 1,500 bp glucose-6-phosphate-1-dehydrogenase fragment. The DNA fragment obtained was mixed with a fragment obtained by digesting the plasmid pIa with restriction enzymes XbaI and BamHI, and these fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and the resulting plasmid was named “pIaz”. 
 Example 16 
 <Preparation of Plasmids pMWGC2 and pMWGKC2> 
 In order to obtain the GAPDH promoter, amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of  Escherichia coli  MG1655 as a template and using CTACTAGTCTGTCGCAATGATTGACACGATTCCG (SEQ ID NO:103) and GCTCGAATTCCCATATGTTCCACCAGCTATTTGTTAGTGAATAAAAGG (SEQ ID NO:104) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzyme EcoRI, and the ends of the digestion product were phosphorylated with T4 Polynucleotide Kinase to obtain a DNA fragment containing the GAPDH promoter. 
 The plasmid pMW119 (GenBank accession number AB005476) was digested with restriction enzyme NdeI, and the ends thereof were blunted. Then, the fragment was further digested with EcoRI, followed by dephosphorylation of ends thereof. The resulting DNA fragment of pMW119 was mixed with the DNA fragment containing the GAPDH promoter described above, and these fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells to obtain a plasmid pMWG2. 
 In order to obtain the chloramphenicol resistance gene, amplification was performed by PCR using pTH18cs1 (GenBank accession number AB019610) as a template and using TCGGCACGTAAGAGGTTCC (SEQ ID NO:46) and CGGGTCGAATTTGCTTTCG (SEQ ID NO:47) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was phosphorylated with T4 Polynucleotide Kinase (Takara) to obtain a DNA fragment containing the chloramphenicol resistance gene. Subsequently, amplification was performed by PCR using pMWG2 as a template and using CTAGATCTGACAGTAAGACGGGTAAGCC (SEQ ID NO:48) and CTAGATCTCAGGGTTATTGTCTCATGAGC (SEQ ID NO:49) as primers, and the resulting DNA fragment was mixed with the DNA fragment containing the chloramphenicol resistance gene. The mixed fragments were ligated using a ligase. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and the resulting plasmid was named “pMWGC2”. 
 Amplification was performed by PCR using the plasmid pMWGC2 as a template and using CCTTTGGTTAAAGGCTTTAAGATCTTCCAGTGGACAAACTATGCC (SEQ ID NO:50) and GGCATAGTTTGTCCACTGGAAGATCTTAAAGCCTTTAACCAAAGG (SEQ ID NO:51) as primers. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the amplification product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 37° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and a plasmid was recovered from the resulting bacterial cells to obtain a plasmid pMWGKC2. 
 Example 17 
 <Construction of Expression Plasmids pMWGC2_Mtk(Mc)_Mcl and pMWGKC2_Mtk(Mc)_Mcl for Mtk and Mcl from  Methylococcus capsulatus  ATCC 33009> 
 PCR was carried out using the genomic DNA of  Methylococcus capsulatus  (ATCC33009D-5) as a template and using GGAATTCCATATGGCTGTTAAAAATCGTCTAC (SEQ ID NO:52) and GCTCTAGATCAGAATCTGATTCCGTGTTC (SEQ ID NO:53) as primers, thereby obtaining a  Methylococcus  mcl-mtk fragment. A fragment obtained by cleaving this mcl-mtk fragment with NdeI and XbaI was ligated with a fragment obtained by cleaving the plasmid pMWGC2 or pMWGKC2 prepared in Example 16 with NdeI and XbaI. Then,  Escherichia coli  DH5α strain competent cells were transformed with the ligation product, and a transformant growing on an LB agar plate containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol was obtained. The obtained colony was cultured overnight at 30° C. in an LB liquid medium containing 25 μg/mL chloramphenicol. The plasmids obtained were named “pMWGC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl” and “pMWGKC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl”, respectively. 
 The plasmids pMWGC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl and pMWGKC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl include the base sequence of mcl (SEQ ID NO:41), the base sequence of mtkA (SEQ ID NO:28) and the base sequence of mtkB (SEQ ID NO:29), which are from  Methylococcus capsulatus . The amino acid sequence of Mcl, the amino acid sequence of MtkA and the amino acid sequence of MtkB that are from  Methylococcus capsulatus  are indicated in SEQ ID NO:36, SEQ ID NO:13 and SEQ ID NO:14, respectively. 
 Example 18 
 <Construction of GlxR and GlxK Expression Plasmid> 
 In order to obtain 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase gene (glxR) from  Escherichia coli , amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of the  Escherichia coli  B strain (GenBank accession number CP000819) as a template and using GCTCTAGACGGAGAAAGTCTTATGAAACTGGGATTTATTGGC (SEQ ID NO:105) and AACTGCAGTCAGGCCAGTTTATGGTTAG (SEQ ID NO:106) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes XbaI and PstI to obtain an about 900 bp glxR fragment. In order to obtain glycerate 3-kinase gene (glxK) from  Escherichia coli , amplification was performed by PCR using the genomic DNA of the  Escherichia coli  B strain (GenBank accession number CP000819) as a template and using AACTGCAGCGGAGAAAGTCTTATGAAGATTGTCATTGCGCCA (SEQ ID NO:107) and GGAATTCAAGCTTTCAGTTTTTAATTCCCTGACC (SEQ ID NO:108) as primers. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with restriction enzymes PstI and HindIII to obtain an about 1,100 bp glxK fragment. The glxR fragment and the glxK fragment obtained were mixed with a fragment obtained by cleaving the plasmid pMWGC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl constructed in Example 17 with XbaI and HindIII, and ligated to a position that is downstream of the malate thiokinase (mtk) sequence of the plasmid pMWGC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl. The plasmid obtained was named “pMWGC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl_glxR_glxK”. 
 Example 19 
 <Preparation of Mtk and Mcl-Introduced, Isopropyl Alcohol-Producing, atoD Genome-Enhanced, Pgi Gene-Deleted, gntR Gene-Deleted and Gnd Gene-Deleted Variant> 
 Competent cells of the variant prepared in Example 14 (B::atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd variant) were transformed with the plasmid pIaz prepared in Example 15 and one of the plasmids prepared in Examples 16 to 18, and applied to an LB agar medium containing 25 mg/L chloramphenicol and 100 mg/L ampicillin. The cells were allowed to grow on the LB agar medium containing 25 mg/L chloramphenicol and 100 mg/L ampicillin, as a result of which variants were obtained. These variants are summarized in Table 3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 3 
 
 
   
 
 
 Variant Name 
 Plasmid/Strain Name 
 Feature 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 vec/atoDAB 
 pIaz, pMWGC2/ 
 IPA production system 
 
 
 ΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 B::atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 is included 
 
 
   
   
 MtkAB is not present 
 
 
   
   
 Δpgi, ΔgntR, Δgnd 
 
 
 MtkAB/atoDAB 
 pIaz, pMWGC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl/ 
 IPA production system 
 
 
 ΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 B::atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 is included 
 
 
   
   
 MtkAB is expressed 
 
 
   
   
 Δpgi, ΔgntR, Δgnd 
 
 
 MtkAB, glxR, glxK/ 
 pIaz, 
 IPA production system 
 
 
 atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 pMWGC2_mtk(Mc)_mcl_glxR_glxK/ 
 is included 
 
 
   
 B::atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 MtkAB is expressed 
 
 
   
   
 glxR is expressed 
 
 
   
   
 glxK is expressed 
 
 
   
   
 Δpgi, ΔgntR, Δgnd 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Example 20 
 <Production of Isopropyl Alcohol> 
 As preculture, each of the variants for evaluation constructed in Example 19 was individually inoculated into 2 mL of an LB broth Miller's culture liquid (DIFCO 244620) that contained 25 mg/L chloramphenicol and 100 mg/L ampicillin in a test tube, and cultivation was performed overnight at a culture temperature of 30° C. with stirring at 120 rpm. Then, the OD of the preculture was measured, and cells in an amount corresponding to an OD of 3.0 were recovered. The recovered cells were suspended in 300 μl of 0.9% NaCl solution, and 20 μl of the resulting suspension was inoculated into 20 mL of LB broth Miller's culture liquid that contained 5% glucose, 25 mg/L chloramphenicol and 100 mg/L ampicillin in a 100-mL baffle-equipped flask, and cultivation was performed for 48 hours at a temperature of 30° C. with stirring at 120 rpm. The resulting bacterial culture liquid was sampled, and the bacterial cells were removed by centrifugation. Thereafter, the amounts of isopropyl alcohol (IPA), acetone and other major by-products (organic acids such as succinic acid) accumulated in the obtained culture supernatant were measured by HPLC using a conventional method. The results thereof are indicated in Tables 4 and 5. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 TABLE 4 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
 Yield per Sugar 
 
 
   
 Products 
   
 Consumed 
 
 
   
 formed 
   
 (48 h) 
 
 
 
 
   
 (g/L/48 h) 
 Glucose 
   
 IPA + 
 
 
 
 
   
 Ace- 
 Consumed 
   
 Ace- 
 
 
 
 
 Variant Name 
 IPA 
 tone 
 (g/L/48 h) 
 IPA 
 tone 
 
 
   
 
 
 vec/ 
 4.8 
 0.1 
 33.2 
 14.4 
 14.8 
 
 
 atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 
 
 MtkAB/ 
 7.2 
 0.2 
 42.7 
 17.0 
 17.3 
 
 
 atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 
 
 MtkAB, glxR, glxK/atoDAB 
 7.9 
 0.3 
 43.9 
 18.1 
 18.8 
 
 
 ΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 The amount of isopropyl alcohol produced during the period of 48 hours was 4.8 g in the case of the control variant (vec/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd), 7.2 g in the case of the mtk+mcl−introduced variant (MtkAB/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd) and 7.9 g in the case of the glxR+glxK+mtk+mcl−introduced variant (MtkAB,glxR,glxK/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd). 
 The amount of acetone produced during the period of 48 hours was 0.1 g in the case of the control variant (vec/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd), 0.2 g in the case of the mtk+mcl−introduced variant (MtkAB/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd) and 0.3 g in the case of the glxR+glxK+mtk+mcl−introduced variant (MtkAB,glxR,glxK/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd). 
 From these results, it was found that the production amounts of isopropyl alcohol and acetone are higher when glxR and glxK are introduced in addition to introduction of mtk and mcl. 
 The yield of isopropyl alcohol and acetone per sugar consumed during the period of 48 hours was 14.8% in the case of the control variant (vec/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd), 17.3% in the case of the mtk+mcl-introduced variant (MtkAB/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd) and 18.8% in the case of the glxR+glxK+mtk+mcl−introduced variant (MtkAB,glxR,glxK/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd). From these results, it was demonstrated that the efficiency of conversion of sugar into isopropyl alcohol or acetone is improved by introducing glxR and glxK, in addition to the introduction of mtk and mcl. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 5 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 Succinic acid 
 Lactic acid 
 Acetic acid 
 Formic acid 
 Pyruvic acid 
 
 
 Variant Name 
 (mg/L/48 h) 
 (mg/L/48 h) 
 (mg/L/48 h) 
 (mg/L/48 h) 
 (mg/L/48 h) 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 vec/ 
 11.7 
 525.0 
 73.4 
 17.7 
 184.0 
 
 
 atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 
 
 MtkAB/ 
 0.0 
 311.0 
 89.9 
 24.7 
 1458.0 
 
 
 atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 
 
 MtkAB, glxR, glxK/ 
 0.0 
 247.0 
 129.0 
 21.1 
 1045.0 
 
 
 atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 The amount of lactic acid produced during the period of 48 hours was smaller in the case of the mtk+mcl−introduced variant (MtkAB/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd) than that in the case of the control variant (vec/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd). Additionally, it was found that the amount of lactic acid was unexpectedly reduced even further in the case of the variant in which glxR and glxK were introduced in addition to the introduction of mtk and mcl (MtkAB,glxR,glxk/atoDABΔpgiΔgntRΔgnd). 
 Example 21 
 <Preparation of  Aspergillus niger  Variants for Evaluation> 
 From the genome of  Aspergillus niger  ATCC 1015, the genes of the promoter region (GlaPr) and transcription termination region (GlaTt) of glucoamylase were obtained by PCR using the method described in a document (Plasmid, 2005; 53: 191-204). 
 The malyl-CoA lyase gene (SEQ ID NO:41), malate thiokinase a subunit gene (SEQ ID NO:28) and malate thiokinase β subunit gene (SEQ ID NO:29) from  Methylococcus capsulatus  ATCC 33009 were amplified by PCR together with an appropriate Shine-Dalgarno sequence (SD sequence). The amplified fragments were designed such that each protein-coding region was sandwiched between the promoter region (GlaPr) and the transcription termination region (GlaTt), and the fragments were inserted into the HindIII site of the plasmid pPTRII (Takara). The plasmid obtained was named “pPTRII_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)”. 
 From the genome of  Rhodococcus jostii  NBRC 16295, the gene of 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductase (glxR) (SEQ ID NO:64) and the gene of glyoxylate carboligase (gcl) (SEQ ID NO:65) were amplified by PCR together with an appropriate SD sequence. The amplified fragments were designed such that each protein-coding region was sandwiched between the promoter region (GlaPr) and the transcription termination region (GlaTt), and the fragments were inserted into pPTRII_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc). The plasmid obtained was named “pPTRII_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj)”. 
 pPTRII, pPTRII_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc) and pPTRII_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj) were individually employed to transform  Aspergillus niger  ATCC 1015, thereby preparing a control variant (hereinafter also referred to as “AN/vec”), mtk+mcl-introduced variant (hereinafter also referred to as “AN/mtk_mcl”) and mtk+mcl+glxR+gcl−introduced variant (hereinafter also referred to as “AN/mtk_mcl_gcl_glxR”) of  Aspergillus niger , respectively. 
 Example 22 
 <Citric Acid Production Test Using  Aspergillus niger>   
 When each of the  Aspergillus niger  variants prepared in Example 21 (AN/vec, AN/mtk_mcl and AN/mtk_mcl_gcl_glxR) is cultured at 30° C. using a medium containing a carbon source and pyrithiamine hydrobromide, the AN/mtk_mcl and AN/mtk_mcl_gcl_glxR produce citric acid with higher yields than that exhibited by the control variant AN/vec. By cultivation using  13 C-labeled sodium hydrogen carbonate and measurement of the  13 C content in acetyl-CoA, which is an intermediate, and the  13 C content in citric acid, which is a final product, it can be confirmed that fixed carbonate has been introduced into acetyl-CoA and citric acid. 
 Example 23 
 <Preparation of  Aspergillus terreus  Variants for Evaluation> 
 In the same manner as that in Example 21, pPTRII, pPTRII_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc) and pPTRII_mcl(Mc)_mtk(Mc)_glxR(Rj)_gcl(Rj) were individually employed to transform  Aspergillus terreus  NBRC 6365 in accordance with the instruction manual of pPTRII (Takara), thereby preparing a control variant (hereinafter also referred to as “AT/vec”), mtk+mcl-introduced variant (hereinafter also referred to as “AT/mtk_mcl”) and mtk+mcl+glxR+gcl−introduced variant (hereinafter also referred to as “AT/mtk_mcl_gcl_glxR”) of  Aspergillus terreus , respectively. 
 Example 24 
 <Itaconic Acid Production Test Using  Aspergillus terreus>   
 When each of the  Aspergillus terreus  variants prepared in Example 23 (AT/vec, AT/mtk_mcl and AT/mtk_mcl_gcl_glxR) is cultured at 30° C. using a medium containing a carbon source and pyrithiamine hydrobromide, the AT/mtk_mcl and AT/mtk_mcl_gcl_glxR produce itaconic acid with higher yields than that exhibited by the control variant AT/vec. By cultivation using  13 C-labeled sodium hydrogen carbonate and measurement of the  13 C content in acetyl-CoA, which is an intermediate, and the  13 C content in itaconic acid, which is a final product, it can be confirmed that fixed carbonate has been introduced into acetyl-CoA and itaconic acid. 
 Cultivation and analysis are performed in the same manner using AT/mtk_mcl_gcl_glxR as a variant to be evaluated and supplying a carbonate, carbon dioxide gas or reducing agent as an additive to the medium. As a result of analysis, the test group supplied with a carbonate, carbon dioxide gas or reducing agent as an additive exhibits a higher yield per sugar consumed than that of the test group not supplied with carbonate, carbon dioxide gas or reducing agent, respectively. That is, it can be thought that, in variants imparted with a CO 2  fixation pathway, supplying a carbonate, carbon dioxide gas or reducing agent is effective in the improvement of the yield per sugar consumed. 
 Example 25 
 <Preparation of  Cupriavidus necator  Variants for Evaluation> 
 The malate thiokinase α subunit gene (SEQ ID NO:28) and the malate thiokinase β subunit gene (SEQ ID NO:29), which are from  Methylococcus capsulatus  ATCC 33009, were amplified by PCR together with an appropriate SD sequence. The amplified fragments were ligated to a broad host range vector pBBR1-MCS2 (GenBank accession number U23751) such that the genes came under the control of the lac promoter. The plasmid obtained was named “pBBR-MCS2_mtk(Mc)”. 
 pBBR1-MCS2 and pBBR-MCS2_mtk(Mc) were individually employed to transform  Cupriavidus necator  JMP 134 (DSM 4058), thereby preparing a control variant (hereinafter also referred to as “CP/vec”) and a mtk-introduced variant (hereinafter also referred to as “CP/mtk”) of  Cupriavidus necator , respectively. 
 Example 26 
 <Poly-3-Hydroxybutyric Acid Production Test Using  Cupriavidus necator>   
 When each of the variants for evaluation prepared in Example 25 (CP/vec and CP/mtk) is cultured at 30° C. using a medium containing a carbon source and kanamycin, the mtk-introduced variant CP/mtk produces poly-3-hydroxybutyric acid with a higher yield than that exhibited by the control variant CP/vec. By cultivation using  13 C-labeled sodium hydrogen carbonate and measurement of the  13 C content in acetyl-CoA, which is an intermediate, and the  13 C content in poly-3-hydroxybutyric acid, which is a final product, it can be confirmed that fixed carbonate has been introduced into acetyl-CoA and poly-3-hydroxybutyric acid. 
 The disclosure of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013-011536, filed Jan. 24, 2013, and the disclosure of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013-011538, filed Jan. 24, 2013, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. 
 All publications, patent applications and technical standards mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent application or technical standard was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
