
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  BACTERIAL MASS PRODUCTION OF TAXANES AND PACLITAXEL 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 (a) Field of the invention The present invention relates to the production of paclitaxel and derivatives thereof (such as related taxanes) using a plurality of different bacteria isolated from different species of Taxus, and also to a novel taxane. There are disclosed methods for the iso- lation of these bacteria and the screening tests that were used to provide evidence that paclitaxel and taxanes were produced by said bacteria. There are also disclosed methods for the biotransformation of pro-taxanes by said bacteria. (b) Description of prior art 
 Paclitaxel, also referred to as Taxol™, has been first identified in 1971 by Wani and collaborators ( ani MC et al . , 1971 J. Am . Chem . Soc , £3: 2325-2327) following a screening program of plant extracts of the National Cancer Institute. This complex diterpene showed cytotoxic activity against several types of tumors and is presently used in the treatment of some cancers such as ovarian and breast cancers. Clinical studies suggest that Taxol™ could eventually be used in the treatment of over 70% of human cancers. 
 Paclitaxel differs from other cytotoxic drugs by its unique mechanism of action. It interferes with cell division by manipulating the molecular regulation of the cell cycle. Paclitaxel binds to tubulin, the major structural component of microtubules that are present in all eukaryotic cells. Unlike other antimi- totic agents such as vinca alkaloids and colcichine, 

which inhibit the polymerization of tubulin, paclitaxel promotes this assembly of tubulin and stabilizes the resulting microtubules. This event leads to the interruption of cell division, and ultimately to cell death. The major obstacle in the use of paclitaxel as an anticancer treatment is its supply. It was originally isolated from the bark and leaves of yew trees such as Taxus brevifolia, T. baccata , T. cuspidata or, T. canadensis . The low yield of the isolation of paclitaxel (0,016 g%) and the limited availability of the trees have forced the scientific and industrial community to find alternative ways of producing paclitaxel . 
 The antitumor property of taxoid compounds has also lead to the generation of new anticancer drugs derived from taxanes. Taxotere™ (sold by Rhδne-Poulenc Rorer) , which is produced from 10-deacetylbaccatin III by hemisynthesis, is currently used in the treatment of ovarian and breast cancers. Furthermore, Abbott Labo- ratories is conducting clinical trials with a drug derived from 9-dihydro-13-acetyl baccatin III, a natural precursor specific to Taxus canadensis . The increasing demand for taxanes highlights the urgent need for renewable and economical processes that would not endanger plant species. 
 Presently, industrials are producing paclitaxel through hemisynthesis from baccatin III, a natural precursor of paclitaxel . However, this process still relies on a plant substance that must be extracted from yew trees. The first complete chemical synthesis of paclitaxel has been achieved in 1994 by Nicolaou et al . 
 (1994, Nature, 367 ,630-634) . This is a multistep proc- 

ess and the overall yield has made this approach non economically feasible. 
 Plant cell culture of Taxus species is another approach explored by many groups (Yukimune et al . , 1996, Nature Biotechnology, 14:1129-1132; Srinivasan et al . , 1995, Biotechnology and Bioengineering, 47 : 666- 676) . Somehow, this process is limited by the amount of paclitaxel that can be produced, the length of incubation time required to obtain significant yields, and the application of plant cell culture to the large volumes required by the industry. 
 In United States Patent No. 5,322,779, in the names of Gary A. Strobel et al . disclosed a fungus isolated from the bark of a sample of Taxus brevifolia which is able to synthetize paclitaxel at a level of 24-50 ng/1 after a period of incubation of 3 weeks. Later, Strobel et al . (1996, Microbiology, 142.435-440) reported another fungus, Pestalotiopsis microspora, isolated from the inner bark of Taxus wallachiana that can produced up to 55 μg/1 of paclitaxel within 5 weeks. Somehow, the long periods of incubation and the large volumes required to extract significant amounts of paclitaxel reduce the profitability of the process. 
 In United States Patent number 5,561,055 (issued on October 1, 1996 in the names of Michel Page et al . , the Applicant) , there is disclosed one bacterium, which was referred to as Erwinia taxi , for the production of paclitaxel. Since then, this bacteria has been characterized as Sphingomonas taxi . This bacterium was isolated from Taxus canadensis . It would be highly desirable to be provided with other bacteria having 

highly diverse metabolic capacities isolated from different species of Taxus for the production of paclitaxel and related taxanes at higher yields. 
 It would also be highly desirable to be provided with widely different bacteria for the mass production of various different bacterial taxanes. 
 As mentioned in International Patent Application published under number WO97/16200, biotransformation process may be used for the generation of new taxanes molecules that lead to new therapeutic drugs. It would also be highly desirable to be provided with new strains of microorganisms able to biotransform taxanes compounds for use as therapeutic agents or to be modified by hemisynthesis. Genetic manipulations of bacteria can increase the activity or the production of certain proteins. It would also be highly desirable to be provided with mutant of our original isolates that could produce and biotransform taxanes at higher levels. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 One aim of the present invention is to provide a plurality of bacteria for the mass production of taxanes and paclitaxel. Another aim of the present invention is to provide a method for bacterial mass production of taxanes and paclitaxel which overcomes all the drawbacks of the prior art . 
 Another aim of the present invention is to pro- vide a novel process for the production of taxanes and paclitaxel. The industrial application of this process would provide alternative renewable sources of taxoids 

compounds for the pharmaceutical industry. 
 Another aim of the present invention is to provide a biotransformation process in which plant -derived taxanes are converted into substances that may be use- ful for the production of other therapeutic compounds. 
 In accordance with the present invention there is provided a method to obtain biologically pure cultures of bacteria isolated from Taxus , wherein said bacteria produce de novo taxanes and paclitaxel at a concentration of about 1 to 25 μg/L, wherein said bacteria are isolated from the inner surfaces of different species of Taxus including without limitations Taxus canadensis , T. brevi folia, T. hunnewel liana, T. bac- cata, and T. cuspidata . In addition, said bacteria are capable of producing biotransformed taxanes wherein pro-taxanes are added to their culture medium. 
 Such biologically pure cultures of bacteria of the present invention include, without limitation, bac- teria of the genus selected from the group consisting of Sphingomonas , Bacillus, Pantoea, and Curtobacterium. 
 In accordance with the present invention, the bacteria include, without limitation, Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi , Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi , Pantoea sp . BCM 1, Pantoea sp . BCM 2, Pantoea sp . BCM 3, Bacillus cereus ssp. BCM 4, Bacillus subtilis ssp. taxi, Bacil lus megaterium ssp. BCM 9 or Curtobacterium sp . BCM 5. 
 In accordance with the present invention there is also provided a method of bacterial mass production of taxanes and paclitaxel thereof which comprises the steps of : 

 a) culturing the bacteria of the present invention in a growth- supporting nutrient medium capable of promoting growth and reproduction of said bacteria, and wherein said culturing is effected for a time sufficient to allow production of taxanes and paclitaxel; and b) isolating said produced taxanes and paclitaxel from said bacteria or culturing medium of step a) . In accordance with the present invention there is also provided a process for improving taxanes and paclitaxel production of taxanes and paclitaxel produc ¬  ing bacteria comprising the steps of : a) culturing bacteria in the presence of a muta- genie agent for a period of time sufficient to allow mutagenesis; b) selecting said mutants by a change of the phenotype which results in an increased production of taxanes and paclitaxel . The mutagenic agent may be a chemical agent, such as daunorubicin and nitrosoguanidine . 
 The mutagenic agent may be a physical agent, such as gamma radiation or ultraviolet. 
 The mutagenic agent may be a biological agent, such as a transposon. 
 In accordance with the present invention, the mutated bacteria include, without limitation, Sphingo- monas taxi D200 or Sphingomonas taxi D201. 
 In accordance with the present invention there is also provided a method of bacterial biotrans orma- tion of taxanes and paclitaxel thereof which comprises the steps of : 

 a) incubating the bacteria of the present invention in a growth- supporting nutrient medium capable of promoting growth and reproduction of said bacteria, and wherein said incubation is effected in the presence of pro-taxanes for a time sufficient to allow production of taxanes- and paclitaxel; and b) isolating said produced taxanes and paclitaxel thereof from said culturing medium of step a) . In accordance with the present invention, there is also provided a process for improving biotransforma- tion of pro-taxanes into taxanes and paclitaxel by taxanes and paclitaxel -producing bacteria comprising the steps of: a) culturing bacteria in the presence of a mutagenic agent for a time sufficient to allow mutagenesis; and b) selecting said mutants by a change of the phenotype which results in an increased biotrans- formation of pro-taxanes into taxanes and paclitaxel . 
 In accordance with the present invention there is also provided a method of bacterial biotransforma- tion of pro-taxanes into taxanes and paclitaxel thereof which comprises the steps of: a) incubating the mutated bacteria of the present invention in a nutrient medium, and wherein said incubation is effected in the presence of pro- taxanes for a time sufficient to allow produc- tion of taxanes and paclitaxel; and b) isolating said produced taxanes and paclitaxel thereof from said culturing medium of step a) . 

 In accordance with the present invention there is also provided a novel bacterial taxane having a characteristic ultraviolet spectrum in HPLC as shown in Fig. 9B, Electrospray Ionization (El) spectrum as shown in Fig. 10A, and characteristic fragments as shown in Fig. 10B. 
 This novel bacteria-derived taxane of the present invention is produced by at least two species of Bacillus (B . cereus ssp. taxi and B . megaterium ssp. taxi) . 
 For the purpose of the present invention the following terms are defined below. 
 The term "taxanes and paclitaxel" is intended to mean any paclitaxel derivatives or precursor which have retained or not the taxol-associated cytotoxic biological activity or are thought to be precursors in the synthesis of paclitaxel. Such taxanes and paclitaxel may be selected from the group consisting of all the diterpenes isolated from any Taxus species. The produc- tion of all taxanes by bacteria, whether pharmacologically active or inactive, is contemplated within the scope of the present invention. Taxanes that are produced by the bacteria of the present invention may be as such found in Taxus plant species or may differs from the ones found in Taxus plant species. 
 Exemplary taxanes which may be produced by the bacteria of the present invention include but are not limited to those of the following Formula I: 

 
 
 
 
 wherein R x , R 2 , R 3 , R 4 , R s , R 6 , R 7 , R 8 , R 9 , R 10 / K- n # R- .2 ' R 13 , R 14 , R 15 , R 16 , R 17  are defined in Table 1 below. 
 However, since bacteria have highly diverse metabolic capacities the taxanes and paclitaxel must only correspond to Formula I, whatever is the nature of R λ  to R 17  substituants . The term "pro-taxanes" used in accordance with the present invention is intended to mean any precursors of any taxanes in the biosynthesis pathway of paclitaxel in plant, fungi and bacteria, including, without limitation, 10-deacetylbaccatin III, baccatin III, cephalo annine, taxinines, taxuspines, taxusin, 7- xylosyl taxol, 7-epi-10-deacetyl taxol, 10-deacetyl taxol, paclitaxel, 7-epitaxol, taxadiene, geranyl- geranyl-pyrophosphate (GGPP) and farnesyl-pyrophos- phate . Exemplary pro-taxanes which may be biotrans- formed by the bacteria of the present invention include but are not limited to those of the preceding formula I where R 1#  R 2 , R 3 , R 4 , R 5 , R 6 , R 7 , R 8 , R 9 , R 10 , K- n # R- .2 ' R- .3 '  R i4' ^ 15   R i 6  R-.7  re  defined in Table 1 below. Exemplary biotransformed taxanes of the present invention include, but are not limited to, those of the 

following Formula I where R 1#  R 2 , R 3 , R 4 , R 5 , R 6 , R 7 , R 8 , 
 •^■9' ^-lo ' _.ι ' ^-12' -R-13 •^■14' ^15' ^-iβ > ^17 are def i ned m Table 1. 

 
 Table 1 
 Compound R,< 1 > R 2  R 3  R 5  R 6   (3 > R 7 < 2 > eR.7 R a  Rιo (4)  R11 R. ' R.3 R-14 Rιs ,5)  R16 
 1 ) paclitaxel tax CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  β-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 2) 10-deacetyl- ceph CH 3  H β-OH =0 β-CH 3  β-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3  cephalomannine 
 3) 7-epitaxol tax CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  α-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 4) 10-deacetyl-7- tax CH 3  H β-OH =0 β-CH 3  α-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3  epitaxol 
 5) 7-epi- ceph CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  α-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3  cephalomannine 
 6) baccatin III α-OH CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  β-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 7) 10-deacetyl α-OH CH 3  H β-OH =0 β-CH 3  β-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3  baccatin III 
 8) cephalomannine ceph CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  β-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 9) 10-deacetyl taxol tax CH 3  H β-OH =0 β-CH 3  β-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 10) 7-xylosyl taxol tax CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  β-xylosyl H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 11 ) 7-xylosyl- ceph CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  β-xylosyl H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3  cephalomannine 
 12) taxagifine =0 α- CH 3  β-OH β-acetyloxy α-acetyloxy β-CH 3  β-acetyloxy H α-cinnamoyloxy methylene α-acetyloxy β-H H cyclo α- C (=CH 2 ) 
 13) δ-benzoyloxy- =o α- CH 3  β-OH β-acetyloxy α-acetyloxy β-benzoyl- β-acetyloxy H α-cinnamoyloxy methylene α-acetyloxy β-H H cyclo α- C taxagifine oxymethyl (=CH 2 ) 
 14) 9-acetyloxy- α-acetyloxy CH 3  H β-acetyloxy α-acetyloxy β-CH 3  H H α-acetyloxy methylene H H H CH 3  CH 3  taxusin (=CH 2 ) 
 15) 9-hydroxy-taxusin α-acetyloxy CH 3  H β-acetyloxy α-OH β-CH 3  H H α-acetyloxy methylene H H H CH 3  CH 3   
 16) taxane la tax CH 3  H =0 =0 β-CH 3  α-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 17) taxane lb taxsub CH 3  H =0 =0 β-CH 3  α-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 18) taxane lc taxsub CH 3  H =0 =0 β-CH 3  α-acetyloxy H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 19) taxane Id α-acetyloxy CH 3  H β-acetyloxy α-acetyloxy β-CH 3  β-acetyloxy H α-OH epoxide α-acetyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3   
 20) 7-epibaccatin III α-OH CH 3  H β-acetyloxy =0 β-CH 3  α-OH H oxetane α-acetyloxy α-benzoyloxy β-OH H CH 3  CH 3 
 
 Footnotes 
 ( 1 ) "ceph" denotes 
 ter- 
 "tax" denotes 
 "taxsub" denotes 
 (2) "xylosyl" denotes 
   
 (3) "α" denotes the stereoposition of a stereomoiety below the plane of the taxane ring structure shown above 
 "β" denotes the stereoposition of a moiety above the plane of the taxane ring structure shown above 
 ( " )   
 (4) "oxetane" denotes the moiety 
 R 9  9 ^10 which is 
 
 
 
 5) "cyclo" denotes the cyclic group formed by bonding the group 


 
 to the taxane 
 A ring as follows 
 
 
 
 6) "epoxide" denotes the moiety 
 which is 
 
 
 
 The term "taxol -associated cytotoxic biological activity" is intended to mean a cytotoxic activity which is sufficient to promote the assembly of tubulin and stabilizes the resulting microtubules of cancer cells causing the division of the cells in two equal daughter cells to be interrupted; and sufficient to cause a disruption in the dynamic equilibrium which exists between microtubules and their depolymerized tubulin dimers, thus preventing completion of the mitotic step which causes a lethal metaphase arrest of cancer cells. The expression "cancer cells" is intended to mean any cancer cells which include without limitation, ovarian, breast, lung, head and neck cancer cells. 
 The term "growth supporting nutrient medium" is intended to mean any culture media which include, with- out limitation, carbon sources, nitrogen sources, amino acids, vitamins and minerals. 

 The term "intercalating agent" is intended to mean any molecule binding to the double stranded DNA structure which include, without limitation, daunorubi- cine, ethidium bromide, acridine orange, acriflavine and epirubicine. 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
 Fig. 1A shows the elution profile, according to HPLC method no. 1, of an organic supernatant extract of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Sphingomonas taxi ; 
 Fig. IB illustrates the UV spectra of paclitaxel obtained from a standard and of an organic extract of supernatant of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as 
 Sphingomonas taxi ; 
 Fig. 2A illustrates a typical chromatogram of an organic extract of the supernatant of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present inven- tion, referred to as Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi using 
 HPLC method no . 2 ; 
 Fig. 2B illustrates the ultraviolet spectrum of paclitaxel produced by Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi compared to a paclitaxel standard; Fig. 2C illustrates the ultraviolet spectrum of 
 7-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol produced by Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi compared to an authentic standard co-eluting with taxinine M; 
 Fig. 3A illustrates a typical chromatogram of an organic extract of the supernatant of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Pantoea sp . BCM 1 using HPLC 

method no . 2 ; 
 Fig. 3B illustrates the ultraviolet spectrum of 7-epi-10-deacetyltaxol produced by Pantoea sp . BCM 1 compared to an authentic standard; Fig. 4A illustrates a typical chromatogram of an organic extract of the supernatant of a bacteria in '  accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi using HPLC method no. 2; Fig. 4B illustrates the ultraviolet spectrum of the bacterial paclitaxel produced by Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi compared to an authentic standard; 
 Fig. 5A illustrates a typical chromatogram of an organic extract of the supernatant of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Bacillus cereus ssp. BCM 4 using HPLC method no. 2; 
 Fig 5B shows a substance having the characteristic ultraviolet spectrum of a taxane compared to a standard of 7-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol co-eluting with taxinine M; 
 Fig. 6 illustrates the cytotoxicity of organic extracts of microorganisms isolated from different species of Taxus on CRL- 1572 cell line as well as the cytotoxicity of taxanes and paclitaxel negative bacteria (STJ.BRP.K1 and E. coli TGI) ; 
 Fig. 7A illustrates the mass spectrometry of the substances eluted between 45 and 48 minutes using HPLC method no . 1 from an extract of Sphingomonas taxi ; Fig. 7B illustrates the mass spectrometry of a paclitaxel standard; 
 Fig. 8A illustrates the almost complete 16S rRNA 

gene sequence of Sphingomonas taxi (SEQ ID N0:1); 
 Fig. 8B illustrates the almost complete 16S rRNA gene sequence of Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi (SEQ ID NO : 2 ) ; Fig. 8C illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi (SEQ ID NO : 3 ) ; 
 Fig. 8D illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of Pantoea s . BCM 1 (SEQ ID NO: 4) ; Fig. 8E illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of Bacillus cereus ssp. BCM 4 (SEQ ID NO:5); 
 Fig. 8F illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Bacillus subtilis ssp. taxi (SEQ ID NO:6); 
 Fig. 8G illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Pantoea sp. BCM 2 (SEQ ID NO: 7); Fig. 8H illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Pantoea sp. BCM 3 (SEQ ID NO: 8); 
 Fig. 81 illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Bacillus megaterium ssp. BCM 9 (SEQ ID NO:9); 
 Fig. 8J illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence of a bacteria in accordance with one embodi- ment of the present invention, referred to as CurtoJbac- terium s . BCM 5 (SEQ ID NO:10); 
 Fig. 8K illustrates the partial 16S rRNA gene 

sequence of a bacteria in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, referred to as Sphingomonas sp. BCM 7 (SEQ ID N0:11); 
 Fig. 9A illustrates a typical chromatogram of an organic extract from the supernatant of Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi producing a specific bacterial taxane using- HPLC method no . 2 ; 
 Fig. 9B illustrates the ultraviolet spectrum of the characteristic taxane produced by Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi; 
 Fig. 10A illustrates the GC/MS (El) spectrum of the purified specific bacterial taxane produced by Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi in accordance with the present invention; Fig. 10B illustrates the mass-to-charge ratios of ions present in the El mass spectra of the bacterial taxane produced by Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi ; 
 Fig. IIA shows the evolution in time of two taxanes in the sterile culture medium supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis incubated at 150 rpm at 30°C; 
 Fig. 11B shows the evolution of two taxanes transformed by Sphingomonas taxi when cultured in the culture medium S-7 supplemented with 1% of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis, shaken at 150 rpm at 30 °C; Fig. 12 shows the HPLC chromatograms of S . taxi cultured in the S-7 culture medium supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis where sample name 8A represents the organic extract of the culture medium supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis, sample name S 24 hres represents the organic extract of Sphingomonas taxi incu- 

bated 24 hours in the culture medium supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis, sample name S 48 hres represents the organic extract of Sphingomonas taxi incubated 48 hours in the culture medium supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis, and sample name S 72 hres represents the organic extract of Sphingomonas taxi incubated 72 hours in the culture medium supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis; Fig. 13 compares HPLC chromatograms of the supernatant extracts of S . taxi (sample name: S 48 hres), S . taxi D200 (sample name: SC 48 hres) and S . Taxi D201 (sample name: SCP 48 hres) cultured 48 hours in the medium S-7 supplemented with 1% v/v of an aque- ous extract of Taxus canadensis, and the organic extract of the medium S-7 supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis (sample name 8A) ; and 
 Figs. 14A-14C show the characteristic ultravio- let spectrum of the new biotransformed pro-taxanes. 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 Plants are hosts of a variety of microorganisms. The relation between the plant and the microorganism can be saprophytic, parasitic, endophytic or symbiotic. Whatever the relation, there may be genetic exchange between the species. Taxus, such as Taxus canadensis, which grows in some regions of the province of Quebec, shows significant amounts of paclitaxel in its needles and stems. Samples of Taxus canadensis from seven (7) regions of the province of Quebec were chosen as well as samples of different species of Taxus such as Taxus 

brevi folia , T. cuspidata, T. baccata, T. hunnewel liana . Several different bacteria of different genus, such as Sphingomonas, Bacillus , Pantoea , and Curtobacterium were isolated from inner parts of samples from different species of Taxus, and all demonstrated taxanes and/or paclitaxel -producing properties. 
 Bacteria described above, produced taxanes and paclitaxel in fermentation procedures. Bacteria are cultured in a appropriate growth supporting nutrient medium containing ingredients known to those skilled in the art for the cultivation of microorganisms. Specific examples of appropriate such media are given below. Temperature of cultivation ranges from 10 °C to 35°C, and aerobic cultivation is generally preferred. Taxanes and paclitaxel are generally excreted in the supernatant, up to 10% of those substances remain in the cell. Taxanes and paclitaxel thereof may be extracted by performing an organic extraction with an appropriate solvents such as methylene chloride or ethyl acetate. 
 In accordance with the present invention, various bacteria producing taxanes and paclitaxel were isolated from different species of Taxus . 
 One bacterium isolated from Taxus canadensis allows for the production of taxanes and paclitaxel at a yield of 1 μg/L, referred to as Sphingomonas taxi , has been already deposited at the American Type Culture Collection but was identified as Erwinia taxi (ATCC, 12301 Parklawn Drive, Rockville, MD 20852 USA) on April 25, 1995 under deposit number ATCC 55669. The deposit is also available as required by Foreign Patent laws in 

countries wherein counterpart applications are filed. 
 The other strains of the present invention have been deposited at the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, 12301 Parklawn Drive, Rockville, MD 20852 USA) on December 18, 1997 under deposit accession numbers as set forth below. The deposit are also available as required by Foreign Patent laws in countries wherein counterpart applications are filed. 
 Strain ATCC No. 
 Bacillus cereus ssp . taxi 202061 
 Bacillus megaterium ssp . taxi 202062 
 Curtobacterium sp . BCM5 202063 
 Pantoea sp . BCM2 202064 
 Bacillus mega teri um BCM9 202065 
 Bacillus cereus BCM4 202066 
 Sphingomonas taxi D201 202067 
 Sphingomonas taxi D200 202068 
 Sphingomonas sp . BCM7 202069 
 Pantoea sp . BCM3 202070 
 Pantoea sp . BCM1 202071 
 Bacillus subtili s ssp . taxi 202072 
 In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, the bacteria isolated from different species of Taxus allow for the production of taxanes and paclitaxel thereof at a yield of 1 to 25 μg/L. In accordance with the present invention, the bacteria isolated from different species of Taxus may be employed for the biotransformation of pro-taxanes. 

Isolation of the different microorganisms producing taxanes and paclitaxel 
 Each plant was divided into 5 parts; needles, twigs, stems, bark and roots. Each inner part of the plant was verified for the presence of taxanes and paclitaxel producing microorganisms. 
 The surface of every part of the plant was sterilized with 95% ethanol and then, cut into small pieces with a sterile blade. Pieces were homogenized in ster- ile water with a POLYTRON™ that had also been sterilized with ethanol 95%. The resulting mix was used to inoculate two different culture media; R2A agar (Difco) and Sabouraud agar (Difco) . 
 Each plate was incubated at 22 °C and examined on a day-to-day basis. The morphology of each colony was meticulously noted and the bacteria were transferred on different media until a pure culture was obtained. A Gram coloration of every bacteria was done before the culture was frozen at -80°C. Over 50 bacteria were isolated from different samples of Taxus canadensis of the province of Quebec. In addition, over 30 different bacteria were isolated from different species of Taxus which include, without limitations, Taxus brevi folia , T. baccata, T. cuspi - data, T. hunnewel liana . Some of them, showing taxanes and paclitaxel production capacities, will be fully described below. Screening of microorganisms 
 In order to verify the production of taxanes and paclitaxel by microorganisms, each organism was cultured in at least 500 ml of a growth supporting nutrient medium. Any liquid medium allowing taxanes and 

paclitaxel thereof production may be employed. Exemplary liquid media are S-7 media (Table 2), and defined media for Bacillus (Table 3) . Every culture was performed in culture flasks and incubated at a temperature ranging from 20°C to 35°C with constant shaking until a sufficient growth was achieved, generally 18 to 72 hres . 
 Table 2 
 Composition of S-7 medium 
 Compounds g/L glucose 1 fructose 3 sucrose 6 sodium acetate 1 soytone 1 thiamine 0,001 biotine 0,001 pyridoxal -HCI 0,001 
 Ca pantothenate 0,001 
 MgS0 4  0,0036 
 CaN0 3  0,0065 
 Cu(N0 3 ) 2  0,001 
 ZnS0 4  0,0025 
 MnCl 2  0,005 
 FeCl 3  0,002 phenylalanine 0,005 sodium benzoate 0,1 
 KH 2 P0 4  1M (pH 6,8) 1 ml 

 Table 3 Composition of the defined medium for Bacillus 
 Compounds g/L 
 L-glutamic acid 10 glucose 5 citric acid 1 
 K 2 HP0 4  0 , 5 
 KH 2 P0 4  0 , 5 
 MgS0 4 -7H 2 0 0,2 
 MnS0 4 -4H 2 0 0,01 
 FeS0 4 -7H 2 0 0,01 
 The culture was then centrifuged and the pellet separated from the supernatant by decantation. To verify if taxanes and paclitaxel were secreted in the medium or if it was confined within the cells, both were tested for the presence of the drug. Since taxanes and paclitaxel are hydrophobic, and in order to concentrate each sample, an extraction with an organic solvent was performed. For the pellet, the cells were dried and about 200 mg were powdered and ultrasonicated twice for 40 minutes in 3 ml methanol. The extracts were dried at 25 °C. The residue was dissolved by add- ing 2 ml of methylene chloride and 2ml of distilled water. After appropriate shaking, the mixture was centrifuged at 4 000 rpm for 5 min. The methylene chloride fraction was collected and dried under reduced pressure. Finally, the residue is dissolved in 0,5 ml of HPLC grade methanol. 
 The supernatant is extracted with one volume of methylene chloride. After appropriate shaking, the 

organic fraction is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is then resolubilized in 50 ml of methylene chloride and 50 ml of distilled water. After appropriate shaking, each fraction was collected and dried under reduced pressure. Each residue is dissolved in a measured minimal volume of HPLC grade methanol. All samples were kept frozen at -20 °C. 
 a) HPLC screening HPLC method no. 1 
 Some extracts were analyzed by High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) on a system consisting of a WATERS™ 625 LC pump, a WATERS™ 996 photodiode array spectrophotometer, and a WATERS™ 717plus autosampler. Chromatography was performed with a phenyl column from Waters ( 5μm particle size, 6 mm X 15 mm) with a guard module. The injection volume varies from 50 to 150 μl and the flow rate maintained at 1 ml/min. The following elution program was used; 0 to 20 min.: methanol : water : acetonitrile 
 (20:65:15) ramped to methanol : water : acetonitrile (20:45:35) 
 20 to 50 min.: methanol :water : acetonitrile (20:45:35) ramped to methanol : water : acetonitrile (20:25:55) 
 50 to 60 min.: methanol : water : acetonitrile (20:25:55) ramped to methanol 100% Table 4 identifies the retention times of known authentic standards on HPLC methods no. 1 and no. 2. Using HPLC no. 1, paclitaxel has a retention time of 46 minutes. In Fig. 1, we show the ultraviolet spectrum 

of paclitaxel produced by Sphingomonas taxi . The spectrum is very characteristic with a second maximum of absorption at 230nm. This figure illustrates that Sphingomonas taxi produces a compound having the same retention time and the same UV spectrum as paclitaxel. HPLC method no. 2 
 Some extracts were analyzed on the same HPLC system with a curosil-PFP column (250 mm X 3.2 mm) from Phenomenex with a guard module. Injections varied from 50 ul to 150 ul and the flow rate maintained at 0.8 ml/min. The following gradient program was used; 0 to 50 min.: acetonitrile : water (25:75) ramped to acetonitrile :water (65:35) 50 to 62.5 min.: acetonitrile : water (65:35) ramped to methanol 100% 
 62.5 to 65 min.: methanol 100% to acetonitrile : water 
 (25:75) 65 to 75 min.: acetonitrile :water (25:75) 
 As shown in Table 4, using HPLC method no. 2, paclitaxel is eluted at 36.987 minutes. 

 
 Table 4 
 Retention time of taxanes standards using HPLC methods no . 1 and no . 2 
 
 
 
 Fig. 2A shows a typical chromatogram of an organic extract of Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi , and in Figs. 2B and 2C there is compared the UV spectra of the substances produced by Bacillus with authentic commercial plant standards. This figure clearly illustrates the ability of Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi to produce paclitaxel and 7-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol . 
 Fig. 3A shows the typical HPLC chromatogram of the supernatant of Pantoea sp . BCM 1 and, in Fig. 3B there is compared the bacterial 7-epi-10-deacetyltaxol against an authentic commercial plant standard, establishing the production of 7-epi-10-deacetyltaxol by Pantoea sp . BCM 1. 
 Fig. 4A shows a typical chromatogram of Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi and, in Fig. 4B there is compared the ultraviolet spectrum of the bacterial paclitaxel 

with an authentic standard proving the capacity of this bacterium to produce paclitaxel. 
 Fig. 5A shows a typical chromatogram of Bacillus cereus ssp. BCM 4 and, Fig 5B shows a substance having the characteristic ultraviolet spectrum of a taxane compared to a standard of 7-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol co-eluting with taxinine M, proving the capacity of Bacillus cereus ssp. BCM 4 to produce taxanes. b) Cytotoxicity on cancer cells An ovarian cancer cell line obtained from American Type Culture Collection (12301 Parklawn Drive, Rockville, MD 20852 USA) under ATCC accession number CRL-1572) was chosen for the investigation. Briefly, 2 000 cells/well of a 96-well microplate were inoculated. After 2 days, different dilutions of the drug were added in a volume of 100 μl . Three days later, the viability of cells was measured with ALAMAR™ blue (B. Page et al . 1993, Intl. J. of Oncology, 2:473-476). The ATCC CRL-1572 cell line is particularly sensitive to paclitaxel (ID 50  of 1 ng/ml) . Microbial extracts have also been tested for their cytotoxicity on those cells. Fig. 6 shows the cytotoxicity of different bacterial supernatant extracts. This figure clearly demonstrates that culture supernatant extracts from Sphin- gomonas taxi and Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi are at least 5-fold more cytotoxic than extracts from non-paclitaxel producing bacteria such as STJ.BRP.K1 and E. coli TGI. 
 c) Mass spectrometry Mass spectrometry of the substances eluted between 45 and 48 minutes with HPLC method no.l from an 

extract of Sphingomonas taxi was performed. Fig. 7A shows the results obtained. In every sample, a substance with a molecular weight (M.W.) of 853,5 daltons appears. The theoretical M.W. of paclitaxel is 854 daltons. Even if these extracts were partially purified, essentially the major compound obtained is paclitaxel . 
 d) Characterization of a bacterial taxane by EI/MS Fig. 9A, shows a typical chromatogram of Bacil lus cereus ssp. taxi producing a characteristic taxane having a retention time of 15 minutes using HPLC method no. 2. In Fig. 9B, the characteristic ultraviolet spectrum of this substance is illustrated. It was purified on HPLC using HPLC method no. 2 and, analyzed in Electro Ionization Mass Spectrometry (EI/MS) as described by Thomas D. McClure et al . ( J. Am . Soc . Mass Spectrom . , 1992, 3 . , pp. 672-679). 
 Fig. 10A shows the El spectrum of this taxane and Fig. 10B shows the characteristic fragments of this taxane. Since this taxane has never been observed in plant extracts of different species of Taxus, and this compound is produced by at least two species of Bacil lus { cereus ssp. taxi and megaterium ssp. taxi ) , we consider this novel taxane unique to microorganisms isolated from Taxus . 
 Characterization of taxane and paclitaxel producing microorganisms a) Biochemical and physiological characteristics 
 Table 5 shows the species of Taxus from which each bacterium was isolated, the Gram coloration, the 

morphology of colonies on different culture media and, some biochemical characteristics. This Table clearly illustrates the diversity of our taxanes and paclitaxel producing bacteria i.e. we have isolated and identified Gram-negative and Gram-positive rods including Actino- mycetes from different species of Taxus which all possess taxanes and/or paclitaxel producing capacities. 

 
 Table 5 
 Cellular, morphological and biochemical characteristics of some taxanes and paclitaxel producing bacteria 
   
 b) Identification of the genus of taxanes and paclitaxel producing microorganisms 
 The genus of each taxanes and paclitaxel producing bacteria was determined by sequencing the 16S 

rRNA genes. Genomic DNA of each strain was used as template for PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) . Primers based on conserved regions at the beginning and the end of the 16S rRNA gene, SSU-27 (5 '- AGAGTTTGATCMTGGCTCAG-3' ; SEQ ID NO: 12), and SSU-1 492 (5' -TACGGYTACCTTGTTACGACTT-3' ; SEQ ID NO: 13), were used to amplify a portion of the 16S gene. The amplicons were purified with the "PCR purification kit" (sold by Qiagen) and sequenced using the ABI Prism System. Sequence analysis was performed using GCG software package (Genetics Computer Group Inc., Madison, Wl) . 
 Fig. 8A shows the almost complete sequence of the 16S rRNA gene of Sphingomonas taxi . Since this strain has unique biosynthetic capacities and more than 3% sequence difference with the 16S rRNA genes of other known species of Sphingomonas , we created a new species and named it taxi on the behalf of its isolation source. Fig. 8B shows the almost complete sequence of the 16S rRNA gene of Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi . Since this bacterium possesses unique metabolic capacities, and in order to differentiate this species from other known Bacillus cereus, we identified it by subspecies name taxi also on the behalf of its isolation source. In Figs. 8C to 8L, we show partial sequences of the 16S rRNA genes of other taxanes and/or paclitaxel producing microorganisms . 
 Consequently, in accordance with the present invention, a plurality of bacteria isolated from different species of Taxus can be used for the mass pro- duction of paclitaxel and other taxanes. Based on the analysis of partial 16S rRNA gene sequences, and morphological and biochemical characteristics, we assigned 

the following genera, species, and subspecies or strain names to our paclitaxel and taxanes producing bacterial isolates; Sphingomonas taxi , Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi , Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi , Pantoea sp . BCM 1, Pan- toea sp. BCM 2, Pantoea sp . BCM 3, Bacillus cereus ssp. BCM 4, Bacillus subtilis ssp. taxi, Bacillus megaterium ssp. BCM 9, Curtobacterium sp . BCM 5 and Sphingomonas sp. BCM 7. 
 Biotransformation of taxanes a) Preparation of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis 
 Fresh cuttings of needles and small twigs (10 g) of a sample of Taxus canadensis are homogenized in 100 ml of distilled water. The solution is then centri- fuged at 7 000 rpm and the clear supernatant sterilized by filtration on a 0,22 μm filter. The solution is kept frozen at -20°C until utilization. 
 b) Biotransformation of taxanes by taxanes and paclitaxel producing bacteria 
 The growth supporting nutrient medium S-7 is supplemented with 1% v/v on an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis . This resulting supplemented medium is then inoculated with a thawed vial of a pure culture of one of our strain and incubated at 30 °C with constant shaking for a time sufficient to allow biotransformation of pro-taxanes . 
 The culture is then centrifuged and the remain- ing supernatant extracted with one volume of methylene chloride or ethyl acetate. After appropriate shaking, the organic fraction is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is then resolubilized in 

50 ml of methylene chloride or ethyl acetate, and 50 ml of distilled water. After appropriate shaking, each fraction was collected and dried under reduced pressure. Each residues is dissolved in a measured minimal volume of HPLC grade methanol.- All samples were kept frozen at -20 °C until analysis. 
 Samples were analyzed on HPLC using method no. 2. Fig. 11 shows the evolution of two taxanes in A) the sterile culture medium S-7 supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis shaken at 150 rpm and incubated at 30 °C, and in B) the supernatant of Sphingomonas taxi cultured in the culture medium S-7 supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis shaken at 150 rpm and incubated at 30 °C. This figure clearly illustrates that in the supernatant of Sphingomonas taxi , the diminution of the taxane eluted at 12 minutes corresponds to the proportional elevation of the taxane eluted at 24 minutes, proving the capacity of Sphingomonas taxi to biotransform tax- anes . 
 In addition, Fig. 12 compares the HPLC chromatogram of the organic extract of the culture supernatant of S . taxi incubated 24, 48 and 72 hours in the culture medium S-7 supplemented with 1% v/v of an aque- ous extract of Taxus canadensis . This Fig. 12 clearly illustrates the production of pro-taxanes. The ulta- violet spectrum of one of these pro-taxanes is illustrated in Fig. 14A. Fig. 14A compares the UV spectrum of the new biotransformed taxane produced by S . taxi with taxanes from the aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis . 

Mutagenesis of taxanes and paclitaxel producing bacteria 
 Typically, 20 ml of the culture medium TA-1 with 
 200 μg/ml of daunorubicin (purchased from Rhone- Poulenc) were inoculated with 500 μl of an overnight culture. The resulting broth was incubated at 200 rpm at 30 °C for 2 days. After this time 10 ml of the broth are added to 10 ml of fresh medium containing 200 μg/ml of daunorubicin and incubated as described above. The preceding step is repeated as necessary to obtain mutated bacteria. Those mutants were further isolated on the solid culture medium TA-1 (composition as follows) . 
 Solid culture medium TA-1 
 Ingredient amount glucose 5 g tryptone 20 g yeast extract 5 g 
 NaCl 0.5 g agar 15 g 
 H 2 O 1 L 
 Biotransformation of taxanes by mutated strains 
 The growth supporting nutrient medium S-7 is supplemented with 1% v/v on an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis . This resulting supplemented medium is then inoculated with a thawed vial of a pure culture of one of our strain and incubated at 30 °C with constant shaking for a time sufficient to allow biotransformation of pro-taxanes . 
 The culture is then centrifuged and the remain- ing supernatant extracted with one volume of methylene 

chloride or ethyl acetate. After appropriate shaking, the organic fraction is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is then resolubilized m 50 ml of methylene chloride or ethyl acetate, and 50 ml of distilled water. After appropriate shaking, each fraction was collected and dried under reduced pressure. Each residues is dissolved a measured minimal volume of HPLC grade methanol. All samples were kept frozen at -20 °C until analysis. Samples were analyzed on HPLC using method no. 
 2. Fig. 13 shows HPLC chromatograms of S . taxi , S . taxi D200 and S . taxi D201 incubated the same time (48 hours) the culture medium S-7 supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis . All cultures had comparable cell density. This figure clearly illustrates the improved yields of biotransformation by the mutated strains S . taxi D200 and S . taxi D201. In Figs. 14B and 14C the characteristic ultraviolet spectrum of the new pro-taxanes, produced by the mutated strains S . taxi D200 and S . taxi D201, are compared with the UV spectrum of two taxanes from Taxus canadensis . 
 The present invention will be more readily understood by referring to the following examples which are given to illustrate the invention rather to limit its scope. 
 EXAMPLE I Mass production of paclitaxel using Sphingomonas taxi 
 A colony of a pure culture of Sphingomonas taxi is used to inoculate 5 ml of S-7 culture medium. The broth is incubated 2-3 days with constant shaking (90 rpm) at 22 °C. This 5 ml is then transferred into 5 

liters of the same culture medium. The resulting broth is incubated as described above in aerobic conditions. 
 After 4-5 days of incubation, or after the maximum cell density is reached, the cell pellet is sepa- rated by centrifugation. Hydrophobic compounds are then extracted from the supernatant by partition with one volume of dichloromethane. Each organic fraction is evaporated to dryness and, the residue is solubi- lized in a minimal amount of HPLC grade methanol, typi- cally 500 μl to 1 ml. 
 Paclitaxel and taxanes are further purified by HPLC on a phenyl column using HPLC method no. 1. Typically, up to 400 μl of the methanolic solution are injected and fractions of 0 , 5 ml to 1 ml are collected. Fractions containing paclitaxel or taxanes are evaporated to dryness . 
 Using this method, from 200 ng to 1 μg of paclitaxel per liter of culture medium were purified. 
 EXAMPLE II 
 Mass production of taxanes and paclitaxel using Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi 
 A thawed vial of a pure dense cell suspension of 
 Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi is used to inoculate 500 ml of the defined medium for Bacillus . The broth is incubated 1 to 3 days with constant shaking (150 rpm) at 30°C. The cell pellet is then separated form the supernatant by centrifugation. Hydrophobic substances are extracted from the supernatant by an extraction with one volume of dichloromethane. The organic fraction is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure, 

and residues resolubilized in a minimal amount of HPLC grade methanol . 
 Taxanes and paclitaxel are further purified on HPLC using method no. 2. Using this method, from 0,2 to 10 μg of paclitaxel can be produced, and from 0,2 to 15 μg of taxanes, including the specific bacterial taxane illustrated in Fig. 13B, can also be produced. 
 EXAMPLE III Mass production of taxanes and paclitaxel using- Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi 
 A thawed vial of a pure dense cell suspension of 
 Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi is used to inoculate 500 ml of the S-7 culture medium. The broth is incubated 1 to 3 days with constant shaking (150 rpm) at 30 °C. The cell pellet is then separated form the supernatant by centrifugation. Hydrophobic substances are extracted from the supernatant by an extraction with one volume of dichloromethane. The organic fraction is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure, and residues resolubilized in a minimal amount of HPLC grade methanol . 
 Taxanes and paclitaxel are further purified on 
 HPLC using method no. 2. Using this method, from 1 to 12 μg of paclitaxel can be produced, and from 1 to 15 μg of taxanes, including the specific bacterial taxane illustrated in Fig. 13B, can also be produced. 
 EXAMPLE IV Biotransformation of pro-taxanes by Sphingomonas taxi 
 The growth supporting nutrient medium S-7 is supplemented with 1% v/v on an aqueous extract of Taxus 

canadensis . This resulting supplemented medium is then inoculated with a thawed vial of a pure culture of one of Sphingomonas taxi and incubated at 30 °C with constant shaking for 24 to 96 hours. The culture is then centrifuged and the remaining supernatant extracted with one volume of methylene chloride. After appropriate shaking, the organic fraction is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is then resolubilized in 50 ml of methylene chloride and 50 ml of distilled water. After appropriate shaking, the organic fraction is collected and dried under reduced pressure. The residue is dissolved in 500μl of HPLC grade methanol and 100 μl of the methanolic solution are analyzed on HPLC using method no . 2 and compared to the resulting chromatogram of the organic extract of the growth-supporting nutrient medium supplemented with and aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis 1% v/v shaken the same time. 
 As illustrated in Figs. 11, 12 and 14A, Sphin- gomonas taxi is able to biotransform taxanes into new pro-taxanes . 
 EXAMPLE V Mutagenesis of Sphingomonas taxi 20 ml of the culture medium TA-1 with 200 μg/ml of daunorubicin (purchased from Rhone-Poulenc) were inoculated with 500 μl of an overnight culture of Sphingomonas taxi . The resulting broth was incubated at 200 rpm at 30 °C for 2 days. After this time 10 ml of the broth are added to 10 ml of fresh medium containing 200 μg/ml of daunorubicin and incubated as described above. The preceding step is repeated as necessary to obtain mutated bacteria. Those mutants were further isolated on the solid culture medium TA-1. Two 

new mutated strains were obtained named Sphingomonas taxi D200 and Sphingomonas taxi D201. 
 EXAMPLE VI Biotransformation of taxanes by Sphingomonas taxi D200 and Sphingomonas taxi D201 
 The growth supporting nutrient medium S-7 is supplemented with 1% v/v on an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis . This resulting supplemented medium is then inoculated with a thawed vial of a pure culture of one of our mutated strain and incubated at 30 °C at 150 rpm. Cultures were stopped after 24, 48 and 72 hours of incubation. 
 Cultures were then centrifuged and the remaining supernatants extracted with one volume of ethyl acetate. After appropriate shaking, the organic fractions were evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. Residues were then resolubilized in 50 ml of ethyl acetate. After appropriate shaking, fractions were collected and dried under reduced pressure. Each residues were dissolved in a measured minimal volume of HPLC grade methanol. All samples were kept frozen at -20 °C until analysis. 
 Samples were analyzed on HPLC using method no. 2. Fig. 13 shows HPLC chromatograms of S. taxi , S. taxi D200 and S . taxi D201 incubated the same time (48 hours) in the culture medium S-7 supplemented with 1% v/v of an aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis . All cultures had comparable cell densities. This figure clearly illustrates the improved yields of biotransformation by the mutated strains S . taxi D200 and S . taxi D201. In Fig. 14B the characteristic ultraviolet spec- 

trum of the new pro-taxanes produced by S . taxi D200 is compared with the UV spectrum of two taxanes from Taxus canadensis . Fig. 14C compares the UV spectrum of the new biotransformed taxane produce by S . taxi D201 with taxanes from the aqueous extract of Taxus canadensis . 
 While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof, it will be understood that is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of the invention following, in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as many be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth, and as follows in the scope of the appended claims. 

 
 American Type Culture Collection 
 
 12301 Parklawn Drive • Rockville, MD 20852 USA • Telephone: 301-231-5519 or 231-5532 • FAX: 301-816-4366 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 INTERNA TIONAL FORM 
 RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 7 3 AND VIABILITY STATEMENT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 10 2 
 To: (Name and Address of Depositor or Attorney) EC'D 3 0 MAR 1999 
 BCM Developpement Inc. W I P O P C T Attn: Nathalie Landry 125 rue Dalhousie, suite 218 Quebec Canada G 1 4C5 
 Deposited on Behalf of: BCM Developpement 
 Identification Reference by Depositor: ATCC Designation 
 Bacillus cereus ssp. taxi 202061 Bacillus megaterium ssp. taxi 202062 Curtobacterium sp. BCM5 202063 Pantoea sp. BCM2 202064 Bacillus megaterium BCM9 202065 Bacillus cereus BCM4 202066 
 The deposits were accompanied by: a scientific description X a proposed taxonomic description indicated above. The deposits were received December 1 2 , 1 997 by this International Depository Authority and have been accepted. 
 AT YOUR REQUEST: X_ We will not inform you of requests for the strains. 
 The strains will be made available if a patent office signatory to the Budapest Treaty certifies one's right to receive, or if a U.S. Patent is issued citing the strains, and ATCC is instructed by the United States Patent & Trademark Office or the depositor to release said strains. 
 If the cultures should die or be destroyed during the effective term of the deposit, it shall be your responsibility to replace them with living cultures of the same. 
 The strains will be maintained for a period of at least 30 years from date of deposit, or five years after the most recent request for a sample, whichever is longer The United States and many other countries are signatory to the Budapest Treaty. 
 The viability of the cultures cited above was tested December 1 8 , 1 997. On that date, the cultures were viable. 
 International Depository Authority: American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Md . 20852 USA 
 Siigynna-ttiuuriee o ufi p peerrssoonn h iiaavvimngy 
 Date: December 1 8 , 1 997 
 
 cc: France Cote 

 American Type Culture Collection 
 
 12301 Parklawn Drive • Rockville, MD 20152 USA • Telephone: 301-231-5519 or 231-5532 • FAX: 30l-ll6-43«6 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 INTERN A TION A L FORM 
 RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 7.3 AND VIABILITY STATEMENT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 10.2 
 o: (Name and Address of Depositor or Attorney) 
 BCM Developpement Inc. Attπ: Nathalie Landry 1 25 rue Dalhousie, suite 21 8 Quebec Canada G 1 K 4C5 
 Deposited on Behalf of: BCM Developpement 
 Identification Reference by Depositor: ATCC Designation 
 Sphingomonas taxi D201 202067 Sphingomonas taxi D200 202068 Sphinogomonas sp. BC 7 202069 Pantoea sp. BCM3 202070 Pantoea sp. BCM1 202071 Bacillus subtilis ssp. taxi 202072 
 The deposits were accompanied by: a scientific description _X_ a proposed taxonomic description indicated above. The deposits were received December 12 , 1997 by this International Depository Authority and have been accepted. 
 AT YOUR REQUEST: X We will not inform you of requests for the strains. 
 The strains will be made available if a patent office signatory to the Budapest Treaty certifies one's right to receive, or if a U.S. Patent is issued citing the strains, and ATCC is instructed by the United States Patent & Trademark Office or the depositor to release said strains. 
 If the cultures should die or be destroyed during the effective term of the deposit, it shall be your responsibility to replace them with living cultures of the same. 
 The strains will be maintained for a period of at least 30 years from date of deposit, or five years after the most recent request for a sample, whichever is longer. The United States and many other countries are signatory to the Budapest Treaty. 
 The viability of the cultures cited above was tested December 1 8 , 1 997. On that date , the cultures were viable. 
 International Depository Authority: American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Md. 20852 USA 
 Signature of person having authority to represent ATCC: 
 Date: December 1 8 , 1 997 
 
 cc: France Cote 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
