
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  A METHOD FOR EXTRACELLULAR PRODUCTION OF TARGET PROTEINS 
 EMPLOYING OmpF IN E. col± 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 Field of the Invention 
 The present invention relates to a method for extracellular production of desired proteins employing outer membrane protein F(OmpF) of Escherichia coli (E. coli ) , more specifically, to an expression vector comprising genes encoding OmpF and desired protein, E. coli transformed with the expression vector, and a method for extracellular production of desired proteins by employing the same. 
 Description of the Prior Art 
 It has been well known that extracellular production of desired foreign proteins in E. coli is a very efficient method in the senses that: the secreted foreign proteins are protected against proteolysis by proteolytic enzymes in E. coli , the secretion process guides appropriate folding of foreign proteins to inhibit the formation of insoluble inclusion bodies, and N-terminal secretion signal peptide is removed from foreign proteins during secretion process to keep the amino acid sequence identical to the naturally occurring one. This method also allows mass production of foreign proteins through high concentration culture and continuous culture. Furthermore, this method makes for pure purification of foreign proteins because little bacterial proteins are secreted into culture media. Since the extracellular production has several advantages as aboves, various studies on the extracellular production systems have been actively made to produce 

desired foreign proteins in E. coli . The extracellular production systems developed so far are classified as the following three categories: the first one is a method for extracellular production by the recombination of secretion signal sequence and desired foreign protein. For example, Toksoy et al. produced Taql protein on the cell surface employing a fusion protein of a secretion signal sequence and maltose binding protein (MBP) , Lo et al. produced β- 1, 4-endoglucanase of Bacillus subtilis on the cell surface of E. coli , and Nagahari et al. produced β-endorphine on the cell surface of E. coli through the recombination of OmpF secretion signal peptide and 8 amino acids from N- terminal of OmpF. In addition, Yamamoto et al. tried to produce p21 protein of harvey murine sarcoma virus extracellularly by using OmpF secretion signal sequence. However, it turned out that p21 was not produced on the cell surface, but accumulated in inclusion bodies (see: Toksoy E. et al., Biotechnology Techniques, 13:803-808, 1999; Lo A. C. et al., Appl . Environ. Micrbiol., 54:2287- 2292, 1988; Nagahari et al., EMBO J. , 4:3589-3592, 1985; and, Yamamoto et al., Appl. Micobiol . Biotechnol., 35:615- 621, 1991) . The second one is a method for extracellular production by the recombination of secretion protein of E. coli and desird protein. For example, Baneyx et al. produced OmpA-TE -β-lactamase fusion protein on the cell surface together with TolAIII membrane protein of E. coli, Robbens et al. used kil gene to produce interleukin-2, van der Wal et al. used a lipoprotein, BRP (bacteriocin release protein) , to produce β-lactamase on the cell surface, and Aristidou et al. increased the yield of extracellular production using BRP by addition of glycine to culture media (see: Baneyx F. and Eugene . M. , Protein Expr. Purif., 14:13-22, 1998; Robbens J. et al., Protein Expr. Purif., 6:481-486, 1995; van der Wal F. J. et al . , Appl. Environ. icrobiol . , 64:392-398, 1998; and, Aristidou A. A. et al., Biotechnol. Lett., 15:331-336, 1993). The third one is a method for extracellular production by the aid of 

outer membrane-free E. coli , i.e., L-type strain of E. coli , a mutant that has only inner cellular membrane without outer cellular membrane and periplasm. The extracellular production of foreign proteins is simpler than prior methods in the culture of L-type strain because expressed proteins are transported through only inner cellular membrane to be secreted into culture media. For example, Kujau et al. used RV308 strain, a L-type mutant, to produce miniantibody (miniAb) on the cell surface (see: Kajau . J. et al . , Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol., 49:51-58, 1998) . 
 As expounded as aboves, a variety of methods have been developed to produce desired foreign proteins on the cell surface of E. coli . Most of these prior art methods are, however, proven to be less satisfactory in a sense that partial degradation of some foreign proteins by bacterial proteolytic enzymes makes the purification process complex and high concentration cell culture impossible. In addition, extracellular production employing L-type strain of E. coli has a shortcoming that the said strain is not suitable for high concentration cell culture due to its weak resistance to environmental stress and its short life cycle. 
 Under the circumstances, there are strong reasons for exploring and developing an alternative method for extracellular production of desired foreign proteins on the cell surface of E. coli . 
 Summary of the Invention 
 The present inventors have made an effort to develop a novel method for extracellular production of desired foreign proteins on the cell surface of E. coli and found that: fusion proteins can be secreted efficiently into culture media of recombinant E. coli transformed with an expression vector comprising genes encoding outer membrane protein F(OmpF) of E. coli and desired protein, and the 

foreign proteins can be purified in a simple manner by removing OmpF from the fusion proteins. 
 A primary object of the present invention is, therefore, to provide an expression vector comprising genes encoding OmpF of E . coli and desired foreign protein. The other object of the invention is to provide a microorganism that is transformed with the expression vector. Another object of the invention is to provide a method for extracellular production of desired protein by culturing the transformed microorganism. 
 Brief Description of Drawings 
 The above objects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following descriptions given in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which: 
 Figure 1 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pTrcEBG. 
 Figure 2 represents a genetic map of expression vector pOmpFδ. 
 Figure 3 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pSKOmpFKm. 
 Figure 4 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pEDOmpF3. 
 Figure 5 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pTrcOmpF4. 
 Figure 6 represents a construction scheme and a genetic map of recombinant 

 expression vector pOmpFδβE. 
 Detailed Description of the Invention 
 An expression vector of the present invention contains ampicillin resistant gene, OmpF promoter and OmpF gene. 
 The method for extracellular production of desired protein employing an expression vector comprises the steps of: introducing a gene encoding oligopeptide which is recognized and cleaved by a proteolytic enzyme and a gene encoding desired protein into the expression vector pOmpF6 to construct a recombinant expression vector producing the desired protein extracellularly; transforming a host microorganism lacking OmpF gene with the recombinant expression vector to obtain a transformed microorganism; culturing the transformed microorganism to produce OmpF- fused protein from the culture; and, treating the fused protein with a proteolytic enzyme and obtaining the desired protein. Available proteolytic enzyme includes Factor Xa, enterokinase (Asp-Asp-Asp-Asp-Lys) , genenase (His-Tyr or Tyr-His) , IgA protease (Pro/Ser- Arg/Thr-Pro-Pro-Thr /Ser/Ala-Pro) , intein, thrombin, trypsin, pepsin and subtilisin or plasmin, preferably Factor Xa. Available desired protein includes peptide, enzyme and antibody that can be fused to OmpF, preferably β-endorphin. Microorganisms of Escherichia sp. or Samonella sp. is, but not limited these to, preferable host microorganism. 
 The present invention is further described in the following. 
 The present inventors cultured six E. coli strains (BL2KDE3), HB101, JM101, MC4100, XLl-Blue and W3110), analysed the outer membrane proteins separated from each culture by SDS-PAGE, and found that OmpF protein was over 

expressed in BL21(DE3) strain. The present inventors constructed an expression vector p0mpF6, which consists of OmpF gene of E. coli , OmpF promoter, and ampicillin resistant gene. OmpF gene and OmpF promoter were cloned by perfoming PCR using genomic DNA isolated from BL21(DE3) as a template and specific primers. E. coli BL101 strain was transformed with the said expression vector and the transfor ant was designated as E. coli 
 BL101/pOmpF6 (Escherichia coli BL101/pOmpF6) and deposited with the Korean Collection for Type Cultures (KCTC, #52 Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, Taejon 305-333, Republic of Korea), an international depository authority, as Accession No. KCTC 1026BP on June 1, 2001. 
 Then, the present inventors constructed a recombinant expression vector pOmpFββE to demonstrate an example of extracellular production of fusion proteins using the expression vector p0mpF6. The recombinant expression vector contains a cDNA encoding β-endorphin, a gene encoding OmpF protein, OmpF promoter, a gene encoding oligopeptide for the recognition and cleavage by Factor Xa, which is inserted between OmpF protein and β-endorphin, and ampicillin resistant gene. The present inventors transformed E. coli BL21(DE3) strain (Novagen Co., U.S.A.) with the said recombinant expression vector pOmpF6βE, cultured the said recombinant E. coli strain to produce OmpF-β-endorphin fusion proteins on the cell surface, and harvested fusion proteins from culture media. The said harvested fusion proteins were first purified by the anion-exchange chromatography and β-endorphin proteins were recovered after removing OmpF proteins from fusion proteins by Factor Xa . 
 High concentration cell culture is practically impossible in the conventional cell surface display systems since fusion proteins are degraded by proteolytic enzymes of E. coli . In accordance with the invention, a desired 

protein can be produced extracellularly by simpler method than conventional methods in a manner that: secretory production of OmpF fusion protein begins simultaneously with growth of cells through constitutive expression employing OmpF promoter, and as the concentration of cells increases, the amount of secretory production of the protein also increases continuously. Therefore, desired proteins can be produced in large quantities by a high concentration culture of cells. 
 The present invention is further illustrated in the following examples, which should not be taken to limit the scope of the invention. 
 Example 1: Selection of E. coli strain over expressing 
 OmpF 
 Six E. coli strains conventionally used for the production of recombinant proteins were selected, and outer membrane proteins were purified therefrom and compared with one another by carrying out SDS-PAGE. Six E. coli strains thus selected were E. coli BL21(DE3) [ F- ompT hsdSB (rB- mB-) gal dcm (DE3) a prophage carrying the T7 RNA polymerase gene] (Novagen Co., U.S.A.), HB101[F- hsd20 (rk-, mk-) recA13 ara -14 proA2 lacYl galK2 rpsL20 (str) xyll -5 mtl -1 supE44 λ-] (New England Biolabs, U.S.A.), JM101[supE thi-1 Δ(lac-proAB) [F'traD36 proAB lacIqZ ΔM15] ] (Stratagene Co., U.S.A.), MC4100[F- araD139 Δ (argF- lac) U169 rpsL150 (strr) relAl flbB5301 deoCl ptsF25 rbsR] (Stratagene Co., U.S.A.), XLl-Blue [ SupE44 hsdR1 7 recAl endAl gyrA96 thi relAl lacF (proAB+ laclq lacZM15 Tnl O (tetr) ] (Stratagene Co., U.S.A.), and W3110 [derived from K-12, λ-, F-, prototrophic] (KCTC 2223) . Each of E. coli strains was cultured in 50mL of LB media (tryptone lOg/L, yeast extract 5g/L, NaCl 5g/L) at 37°C. 
 Bacterial cells were harvested from each of the cultures and the outer membrane proteins were fractionated 

by the following process: Bacterial cells were first harvested by centrifuging 3mL of the culture at 3500 x g for 5 min at 4°C. The harvested bacterial cells were washed with lmL of Na 2 HP0 4  (pH 7.2) buffer solution, centrifuged again at 3500 x g for 5 min at 4°C, and suspended in 0.5mL of Na 2 HP0 4  (pH 7.2) buffer solution. The bacterial cell suspension was treated by sonication and centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 2 min at room temperature to remove the cell debris. The supernatant was centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 30 min at room temperature and the pellet was suspended in 0.5mL of 10M Na 2 HP0 4  (pH 7.2) buffer solution containing 0.5% (w/v) sarcosyl to prepare the fraction of the outer membrane proteins. 
 The fraction was incubated at 37°C for 30 min and centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 30 min at 4°C. The pellet was washed with lOmM Na 2 HP0 4  (pH 7.2) buffer solution and suspended in 50μl of PBS(0.247M NaCl, 0.041M Na 2 HP0 4 , 0.047M KH 2 P0 4 , 0.005M KC1, pH 7.4) to prepare the fraction sample of the outer membrane proteins for the protein analysis (see: Puenete, J.L. et al., Gene, 156:1-9, 1995). Each of fraction samples was analysed by SDS-PAGE, showing that E. coli BL21(DE3) strain produced a large amount of OmpF protein. 
 Example 2 : Preparation of E. coli strain lacking ompF gene 
 ompF gene of E. coli BL21(DE3) was deleted by using red operon (exo-beta-gam) of bacteriophage: First, PCR was performed by empolying bacteriophage DNA as a template and primer pair of primer 1: 5'- CGCGCCATGGATATTAATACTGAAACTGAGATCAAGC-3' (SEQ ID NO. 1) and primer 2: 5'- CGGGATCCTCATCGCCATTGCTCCCCAAATAC-3 ' (SEQ ID NO. 2). The amplified PCR product was separated on 1.2% agarose gel by electrophoresis to obtain 2.2 kb DNA fragment. The DNA fragment was digested with Ncol and Bam I restriction enzymes. The expression plasmid pTrc99A (Pharmacia Biotech Co., U.S.A.) containing trc 

promoter was also digested with Ncol and BamHI restriction enzymes, and ligated to the PCR product digested with the same restriction enzymes to construct a recombinant expression vector pTrcEBG. Then, E. coli XLl-Blue strain was transformed with the expression vector pTrcEBG and transformants were screened on LB plate containing 50μg/L ampicillin (see: Fig. 1). Figure 1 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pTrcEBG. E. coli BL21(DE3) strain was transformed with the recombinant expression vector pTrcEBG and transformants were screened on LB plate containg 50μg/L ampicillin. The transformant was cultured in 500mL of LB media until O.D. 6 oo reached to 0.3 and IPTG( final concentration ImM) was added into media to induce the expression of exo-beta-gam gene. After culture for 1 hr, bacterial cells were harvested by centrifugation and washed with 250mL of deionized distilled water. The harvested cells were suspended in lOmL of 10%(w/v) glycerol and stored at -80°C after centrifugation. On the other hand, PCR was performed using genomic 
 DΝA of E . coli BL21(DE3) strain as a template and primer pair of primer 3: 5 ' -CGGAATTCTGGATTATACCGACGCAG-3 ' (SEQ ID NO. 3) and primer 4: 5 ' -GCGGATCCTTAGAACTGGTAAACGATAC- 3' (SEQ ID NO. 4) to obtain 2,160bp DNA fragment. The DNA fragment was digested with EcoRI and BamHI restriction enzymes and inserted into pBluescript SK(-) (Stratagene Cloning Systems, U.S.A.) to construct an expression vector pOmpFδ. Then, E. coli XLl-Blue strain was transformed with the expression vector, and then transformants were screened on LB plate containing 50μg/L ampicillin (see: Fig. 2). Figure 2 represents a genetic map of expression vector pOmpF6. In addition, PCR was performed using an expression vector pACY177 (New England Biolabs, U.S.A.) as a template and primer 5: 5'- CGCTGCAGTTAGAAAAACTCATCGAGCATC-3' (SEQ ID NO. 5) and primer 6: 5'-GCCTGCAGGCCACGTTGTGTCCTCAAA-3' (SEQ ID NO. 6) to obtain 940bp DNA fragment. The DNA fragment was digested 

with Pstl restriction enzyme and ligated into Pstl- digested plasmid pOmpF6 to construct a recombinant expression vector pSKOmpFKm. Then, E. coli XLl-Blue strain was transformed with the recombinant expression vector pSKOmpFKm, and then the recombinant expression vector pSKOmpFKm containing kanamycin resistant gene was obtained therefrom (see: Fig. 3). Figure 3 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pSKOmpFKm. As shown in Fig. 3, the recombinant expression vector pSKOmpFKm contains ompF gene and promoter, which are derived from E. coli BL21(DE3) strain, and, kanamycin resistant gene is inserted between ompF promoter and 5'- terminal of ompF gene, by which ompF gene is not expressed. PCR was performed using the recombinant expression vector pSKOmpFKm as a template and primer 3 and primer 4 to obtain DNA fragment comprising ompF gene, its promoter and kanamycin resistant gene inserted between them. The DNA fragment was introduced to E. coli BL21(DE3) strain transformed with pTrcEBG and transformants were screened on LB plate containing ampicillin and kanamycin. In order to remove expression vector pTrcEBG from the transformants, the transformants was subcultured in LB media five-times for 2 days, and then spreaded and incubated on LB plate containing kanamycin to screen the transformants not growing on the plate. Genomic DNA of the said selected E. coli strain was purified to confirm whether kanamycin resistant gene was inserted between ompF promoter and ompF gene: i.e., PCR was performed using the purified genomic DNA as a template and primer pair of primer 3 and primer 8: 5'-GATCGGAATTGATTTGAGTTTCC-3' (SEQ ID NO. 8), and amplified DNA fragment was sequenced. Then, PCR was performed using the purified genomic DNA as a template and primer pair of primer 7: 5 ' -CCACAGCAACGGTGTCGTCTG-3 ' (SEQ ID NO. 7) and primer 9: 5 ' -ATCTTTATCTTTGTAGCACTTTCAC- 3 1  (SEQ ID NO. 9), and amplified DNA fragment was sequenced. Sequencing of both DNA fragments revealed that kanamycin resistant gene was located between ompF promoter and ompF 

gene. The said transformed strain was designated as "£. coli BL101". 
 Example 3: Development of expression system of ompF gene 
 In order to express OmpF protein in E. coli BL101 recombinant strain prepared in Example 2, three recombinant expression vectors were constructed, respectively. First, an expression vector of ompF gene was constructed employing T7 promoter that is a strong inducible expression promoter. PCR was performed using genomic DNA of E. coli BL21(DE3) as a template and primer 4 and primer 10: 5 ' -GCGAATTCATATGATGAAGCGCAATATTCTG-3 ' (SEQ ID NO. 10) . The amplified PCR product was digested by del and BamHI and cloned into an expression vector pET21c (Novagen, U.S.A.) to construct a recombinant expression vector pEDOmpF3. E. coli XLl-Blue strain was transformed with pEDOmpF3 and the recombinant expression vector pEDOmpF3 was obtained therefrom (see : Fig. 4). Figure 4 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pEDOmpF3. 
 Secondly, an expression vector of ompF gene was constructed employing Trc promoter that is an inducible expression promoter. PCR was performed using genomic DNA of E. coli BL21(DE3) strain as a template and primer 4 and primer 11: 5 ' -GCGAATTCCATGGTGAAGCGCAATATTCTGGCAG-3 ' (SEQ ID NO. 11) . The amplified PCR product was digested by Ndel and BamHI and cloned into an expression vector pTrc99A to construct a recombinant expression vector pTrcOmpF4. E. coli XLl-Blue strain was transformed with pTrcOmpF4 and the recombinant expression vector pTrcOmpF4 was obtained therefrom (see: Fig. 5) . Figure 5 represents a genetic map of recombinant expression vector pTrcOmpF4. Thirdly, an expression vector pOmpF6 comprising OmpF promoter constructed in Example 2 was used as an expression vector of ompF gene. 

 The said three recombinant expression vectors (pEDOmpF3, pTrcOmpF4 and pOmpFδ) were used to transform E. coli BL101 strain prepared in Example 2. 
 Transformed recombinant strains were screened on LB plate containing ampicillin and kanamycin. In order to select the most efficient secretion system that produces OmpF proteins on the cell surface, each transformed recombinant 
 E. coli was cultured in 50 mL of R/2 media{ (NH )  2 HP0 4  2g/L, 
 KH 2 P0 4  6.75g/L, citric acid 0.85g/L, MgS0 4 -7H 2 0 0.7g/L, 5M HC1/L, FeS0-7H 2 0 lOg/L, ZnS0 4 -7H 2 0 2.25g/L, CuS0 4 -5H 2 0 lg/L, 
 MnS0 4 -5H 2 0 0.5g/L, Na 2 B 4 O 7 -10H 2 O 0.23g/L, CaCl 2 -2H 2 0 2g/L, 
 (NH 4 ) 6 M0 7 0 24  0.1 g/L, glucose 10 g/L} at a temperature of 
 37°C. 
 1M IPTG(isopropyl-β-thiogalactoside, final concentration) was added to induce expression of ompF gene when O.D. 600  of culture of the transformant harboring pEDOmpF3 and pTrcOmpF4 reached at 0.7. E. coli BL21(DE3) and E. coli BL101 were also cultured under the same condition for the control group. Outer membrane protein fractions were prepared from the culture of each strain by the method described in Example 1, and analysed by SDS- PAGE to compare expression levels of OmpF protein. E. coli BL101 transformed with pOmpFδ vector produced and accumulated OmpF protein in the outer membrane whose expression level was similar to that of E. coli BL21(DE3), a parent strain. From the said results, it was clearly demonstrated that OmpF promoter is the most preferred for the expression of OmpF-fused protein. 
 The present inventors designated E. coli BL101 transformed with a recombinant expression vector pOmpF6 as "Escherichia coli BLIOl/pOmpFδ" , and deposited with the Korean Collection for Type Cultures (KCTC, #52 Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, Taejon 305-333, Republic of Korea) , an international depository authority, as Accession No. KCTC 1026BP on June 1, 2001. 
 Example 4 : Construction of OmpF-β-endorphin expression 

 vector 
 β-endorphin protein consists of 31 amino acids, and gene encoding β-endorphin consists of 93 nucleotides (see : Takahashi H. et al., FEBS Lett., 135:97-102, 1981). 
 To prepare the gene coding for β-endorphin, primer 12: 5'-ACCGCCATACCTTCCCTCGATGAACTGGTAAACGATA-3' (SEQ ID NO. 12) , primer 13: 5' - 
 GGAAGGTATGGCGGTTTCATGACCAGCGAAAAAAGCCAGAC-3' (SEQ ID NO. 13) , primer 14 : 5 ' - 
 CGCGTTTTTAAACAGGGTCACCAGCGGGGTCTGGCTTTTTTCGC-3' (SEQ ID NO. 14) , primer 15: 5 ' - 
 CCCTGTTTAAAAACGCGATCATCAAAAACGCGTATAAAAAAG-3' (SEQ ID NO. 15), and primer 16: 5'- GCGGATCCCTATTATTCGCCTTTTTTATACGCGTTTTTG-3 1  (SEQ ID NO. 16) were synthesized, respectively, and used for PCR. PCR was also performed using genomic DNA of E. coli BL21(DE3) as a template and primer 10 and primer 12 as primers. Both DNA fragments amplified by the above PCRs were mixed with primer 10 and primer 16, and then PCR was performed again to obtain PCR fragments containing a gene encoding four amino acids which is recognized and cleaved by Factor Xa, and β-endorphin gene fused with ompF gene. The said PCR fragments were digested with Bglll and Xbal and ligated into an expression vector p0mpF6 to construct a recombinant expression vector pOmpFδβE. £. coli XLl-Blue strain was transformed with pOmpF6βE and the recombinant expression vector pOmpFδβE was obtained therefrom (Fig. 6). Figure 6 represents a construction scheme and a genetic map of a recombinant expression vector pOmpFδβE. The nucleotide sequence of β-endorphin gene fused with ompF gene in the recombinant expression vector pOmpFδβE is 5'- TATGGCGGTTTCATGACCAGCGAAAAAAGCCAGACCCCGCTGGTGACCCTGTTTAAAA ACGCGATCATCAAAAACGCGTATAAAAAAGGCGAATAA-3' (SEQ ID NO. 18), which expresses Tyr Gly Gly Phe Met Ala Ser Glu Lys Ser Gin Ala Pro Leu Val Ala Leu Phe Lys Asn Ala lie lie Lys Asn Ala Tyr Lys Lys Gly Glu Stop(SEQ ID NO. 17). 

 E . coli BL101 strain was transformed with the recombinant expression vector pOmpFδβE and transformants were screened on LB plate containing ampicillin and kanamycin. 
 Example 5: Extracellular production of OmpF-β-endorphin fusion protein 
 E . coli transformant prepared in Example 4 was inoculated into 1.8L of R/2 media and cultured at 37°C by fed-batch culture. The substrate was consisted of glucose 700g/L and MgS0 4 -7H 2 0 20g/L, and fed into culture media at a speed of lOmL/min to keep glucose concentration at 0.7g/L if pH of culture media increased above 6.88, and air and oxygen were supplied automatically to keep dissolved oxygen at 40%(v/v). After 17.5 hours of culture, optical density at 600nm of the culture was measured as 150.5 and dry weight of cells was 54.1g/L. To measure the amount of fusion proteins, culture media collected at regular intervals were centrifuged, and the supernatants were analysed by electrophoresis, which showed that OmpF- β-endorphin fusion protein of 40kDa was accumulated in culture media and the accumulated amount of OmpF-β- endorphin fusion protein was increased depending on the culture time. Final amount of OmpF-β-endorphin fusion protein was 4.64 g/L, which corresponded to 45% of total proteins in the culture media. 
 Example 6: Purification of β-endorphin produced extracellularly 
 OmpF-β-endorphin fusion protein accumulated in the culture media in Example 5 was purified: First, 50mL of culture media was centrifuged to remove bacterial cells. Then, OmpF-β-endorphin fusion protein was purified from the supernatant by anion-exchange chromatography, where Q2-column (BIO-RAD Co., U.S.A.) was used as anion-exchange 

 resin and 50mM Tri-HCl (pH 7.0) buffer solution was used as mobile phase and flow rate was lmL/min. OmpF-β-endorphin fusion proteins were eluted with a linear gradient of 0 to 1 M NaCl. Total amount of OmpF-β-endorphin fusioin proteins eluted at 0.45M of NaCl was 89.1mg. NaCl was removed from OmpF-β-endorphin fusion proteins by dialysis. In order to remove OmpF protein from OmpF-β-endorphin fusion protein, Factor Xa and OmpF-β-endorphin fusion protein were mixed at a ratio of l:200(w/w) and incubated at 23°C for 12 hours. Then, β-endorphin protein was purified by reverse-phase HPLC, where Microsorb-MV Cis column(4.6 x 250 mm, Varian, U.S.A.) was used as HPLC column and 0.1% (v/v) TFA (trifluoroacetic acid) solution was used as mobile phase and flow rate was lmL/min. Elution of proteins was monitored at 280 nm with a UV detector (see: Table 1). 
 Table 1: Purification of β-endorphin 
 
 
 
 As shown in Table 1 above, 2.8mg of β-endorphin was purified by the technique of HPLC. Further, N-terminal sequencing of purified β-endorphin revealed that the amino acid sequence is Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Met-Thr-Ser-Glu-Lys, which corresponds with N-terminal amino acids of β- endorphin. 
 As clearly illustrated and demonstrated as above, the present invention provides an expression vector comprising genes encoding OmpF and desired protein, E. coli 

transformed with the expression vector, and a method for extracellular production of desired proteins by employing the same. The recombinant expression vector of the invention comprises ampicillin-resistant gene, OmpF promoter and OmpF gene. In accordance with the invention, a desired protein can be produced extracellularly by simpler method than conventional methods in a manner that: secretory production of OmpF fusion protein begins simultaneously with growth of cells through constitutive expression employing OmpF promoter, and as the concentration of cells increases, the amount of secretory production of the protein also increases continuously. Therefore, desired proteins can be produced in large quantities by a high concentration culture of cells. 
 While the present invention has been shown and described with reference to particular embodiments, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that certain changes and modifications can be made to this invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as it is set forth herein. 

 
 INDICATIONS RELATING TO DEPOSITED MICROORGANISM OR OTHER BIOLOGICAL MATERIAL 
 
 
 A The indications made below relate to the deposited microorganism or other biological material referred to in description On page 12 , lines 29-3 5   
 B IDENTIFICATION OF DEPOSIT Further deposits are identified on additional sheet 
 Name of depositary institution 
 Korean Collection for Type Cultures (KCTC) 
 Address of depositary institution (including postal code and country) 
 Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology(KRIBB) #52, Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, Taejon 305-333, Republic of Korea 
 Date of deposit Accession Number 
 June 01, 2001 KCTC 1 026 B P 
 C ADDITIONAL INDICATIONS (leave blank if not applicable) This information continues on an additional sheet 
 D DESIGNATED STATES FOR WHICH INDICATIONS ARE MADE (if the indications are not for all designated Slates) 
 E SEPARATE FURNISHING OF INDICATIONS (leave blank if not applicable) 
 The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (specify the general nature of the indications e g , "Accession Number of Deposit ") 
 For receiving Office use only For International Bureau use only 
 P This sheet was received with the international application D This sheet was received by the International Bureau on 
 Authorized officer Authorized officer 
 Form PCT/RO/134 (July 1998) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
