
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Title of the Invention:  
  Stable integration of a xenobiotic receptor promoter-reporter DNA construct into a human liver cell line for evaluating the drugs by high throughput screening.  
 Field of the Invention:  
  The present invention relates to a pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR)- promoter-reporter construct, and to a stably integrated pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR) promoter-reporter construct-cell line made therefrom for evaluating the drugs to assess their capability to bind or to regulate the PXR promoter protein level, and to method of preparation of a stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line.  
  Particularly, it relates to a a PXR-promoter-reporter construct, and to stable and integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line for screening of drugs to assess their capability to bind and regulate the PXR promoter protein level.  
  In one embodiment, the present invention relates to PXR promoter for preparation of PXR-promoter-reporter construct.  
  In another embodiment, the present invention relates to method of screening of drugs to assess their capability to bind and regulate the PXR promoter.  
 Background of the Invention:  
  The Nuclear Receptor (NR) super-family is a large group of ligand-induced transcription factors with 48 members presently identified in the human genome. NRs share common structural features that include a variable amino-terminal domain containing i) an autonomous activation function critical for cell and target specificity; ii) a central region that contains a DNA binding domain; and in) a distal carboxy-terminal ligand binding domain (LBD). NRs are modulated according to the nature of the interacting ligand, therefore, they are attractive targets for drug discovery and, search for novel or improved drugs are being consistently sought after.  
  The pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR) is an important member of the NR super-family that modulates a network of genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism and elimination. PXR protein can be activated by diverse range of drugs, xenobiotics, endobiotics and endogenous metabolites including steroids, bile acids. PXR protein regulates the expression of a series of genes primarily in liver, intestine and colon that are involved in the metabolism and elimination of drug, xenobiotic and endobiotic molecules from the body. 

 Although PXR protein primarily evolved to protect cells from toxic insults, it also represents the molecular basis for an important class of drug-drug, drug-herbal and herbal-herbal interactions.  
  Accordingly, it serves as a vital 'xenosensor' for enhancing the metabolism and elimination of exogenous chemicals (of environmental or industrial origin) or toxic byproducts derived from endogenous metabolism.  
  During drug therapy it has been observed that many drugs get metabolized and eliminated directly by PXR responsive genes, but without binding or activation of PXR protein. However, some other drugs invoke self metabolism and elimination by PXR responsive genes following binding and activation of PXR protein. The PXR protein activation upon binding by drugs, xenobiotics and endobiotics leads to induction of the components of the drug metabolism and clearance machinery. This results in rapid elimination of the PXR protein-activating drugs, thereby reduction of their therapeutic efficacy.  
  Accordingly, it is desired to assess the drug before its administration for its capability to bind and activate PXR protein. The methods to assess pharmacological properties (therapeutic activity and safety) of drugs suffer from problems of being lengthy, expensive and requiring intensive labor. Further, the in-vivo methods offer very limited predictive values because of species variations and other factors. To assess drug's capability to bind and activate PXR protein, WO2004016759 and US20040077080 patent applications have provided integrated PXR-protein-cell line.  
  In combination therapy - a therapy where more than one drug is administered, the process of elimination of drugs is more complex. It has been observed that if one drug binds and activates the PXR protein, it may also encourage the elimination of other co-administered drug(s) that are metabolized and eliminated by PXR-responsive gene products. In this way, a drug that binds and activates PXR protein may also reduce therapeutic efficacy of other co-administered drug.  
  However, if a drug, xenobiotic and endobiotic molecule does not bind and activate the PXR protein, it itself may not eliminate early, but may still encourage the elimination of other co-administered drug(s) that are metabolized and eliminated by PXR-responsive gene products. Accordingly, a drug that does not activate PXR protein may still reduce therapeutic efficacy or may increase toxicity level of other coadministered drug(s). Such a problem has been observed when a drug, xenobiotic and endobiotic molecule regulates PXR-promoter without binding and activating PXR 

 protein. Under such circumstances, a drug molecule acts indirectly on PXR-protein, because regulation of PXR-promoter, due to drug's capability to bind and induce it, has been found to result in alteration of the level of PXR-protein.  
  It has been observed that if level of PXR protein is increased due to drug's capability to regulate or up-regulate the PXR-promoter, the co-administered drug, which is capable of metabolism and elimination by PXR-protein, gets eliminated much earlier, and hence, its therapeutic efficacy gets greatly reduced resulting in failure of combination therapy.  
  It has been also observed that if level of PXR protein is decreased due to drug's capability to bind and repress PXR-promoter, the co-administered drug, which is capable of metabolism and elimination by PXR-protein, does not get eliminated, and hence, its therapeutic efficacy gets greatly increased resulting in success of combination therapy. However, if the drug or material under investigation is toxic in nature, then its toxicity level gets greatly increased due to its non-elimination, and hence, -the combination therapy gets fail under these circumstances.  
  Accordingly, screening of drugs to assess their capability to up-regulate, or to bind and repress the PXR-promoter is also required to have complete screening of drug before it is administered to a patient so that chances of failure of combination therapy can be avoided in-advance, and prior art does not provide a solution to such a problem. Need of the Invention:  
  Therefore, there is need to provide a medium and method for evaluating the drugs to assess their capability to up-regulate, or to bind and repress the PXR-promoter so as to have complete screening of drug before it is administered to a patient so that chances of failure of combination therapy can be avoided in-advance.  
 Objects and Advantages of the Invention:  
  Accordingly, main object of present invention is to provide a medium and method for evaluating the drugs to assess their capability to bind and repress (or to down-regulate), or to regulate (or to up-regulate) the PXR-promoter so as to have complete screening of drug before it is administered to a patient, and thereby, chances of failure of combination therapy can be avoided in-advance.  
  This is particular object of the invention to provide a pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR)-promoter-reporter construct, and to provide a stably integrated pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR) promoter-reporter construct-cell line made therefrom for evaluating or screening of drugs to assess their capability to bind and repress or to 

 regulate (up-regulate) the PXR promoter protein level so that its indirect act on level of PXR-protein can be assessed before its administration to a patient, and to method of preparation of a stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line.  
  This is also an object of the invention to provide a PXR promoter and a PXR- promoter-reporter construct made therefrom which is capable of integrating into a human cell line to produce stable and integrated pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR) promoter-reporter construct-cell line for screening of drugs to assess their capability to bind and repress, or to regulate (up-regulate) the PXR promoter so that drug's indirect act on level of PXR-protein can be assessed before its administration to a patient.  
  This is also an object of the invention to provide a method of screening of drugs, xenobiotic and endobiotic molecules to assess their capability to bind and repress, or to regulate (up-regulate) the PXR promoter.  
  Other objects and advantages of present invention will be apparent from following description of the invention when in conjunction with the accompanying figures which are not intended to limit scope of present invention.  
 Brief Description of the Accompanying Figures:  
  Figure 1 illustrates nucleotide sequence of the PXR-promoter in accordance with present invention, which is human PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region.  
  Figure 2A illustrates schematic representation of the proximal PXR-promoter and its various deletion constructs in accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention.  
  Figure 2B illustrates a graphical representation of relative luciferase reporter activities of various PXR-promoter deletions derivatives in accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention.  
  Figure 3 illustrates a graphical representation of luciferase activities of various components after transiently transfecting in human liver cell line HepG2 cells in accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention.  
  Figure 3A illustrates graphical representation of relative PXR-promoter activity of the clone 1 1 of Hepx-1096/+43 used for screening different drugs in accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention.  
  Figure 3B illustrates graphical representation of relative PXR-promoter activity of clone 9 of Hepx-497/+43 used for screening the same drugs as for clone 1 1 of Hepx- 1096/+43 in accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention. 

 Description and Preferred Embodiments of the Invention:  
  As stated herein, inventors have observed that integrated cell lines known in the art are capable of assessing drug's capability to bind and activate the PXR at PXR- protein level, which inventors have identified as Level-I drug screening methodology, and not capable of assessing drug's capability to bind and induce the PXR at PXR- promoter level, which inventors have identified as Level-II drug screening methodology. Therefore, the integrated cell lines known in the art are not capable of assessing drug's indirect action on PXR-protein, and present invention is aimed to provide solution to this problem.  
  The term "integrated cell line" of Level - 1 means a cell line integrated with PXR gene [PXR protein] as known in the art.  
  It has been observed that if PXR-protein level is altered after administration of a drug, tested by Level-I method, due to its indirect action on PXR-promoter, the therapeutic value and/or toxicity level of the tested drug may not be affected, because it is being administered after screening that it does not bind or activate the PXR-protein, however, that of the co-administered drug(s), in case of a combination therapy, may still be altered, if the co-administered drug(s) is(are) capable of binding and activating PXR- protein.  
  It has been observed if PXR-protein level is increased after administration of a tested drug due to its capability to bind and induce (or to up-regulate) PXR-promoter, then the co-administered drug(s) capable of binding to and activating the PXR-protein will eliminate much rapidly, and thereby, its therapeutic efficacy will be greatly reduced, and hence, the combination therapy will fail.  
  On the other end, if PXR-protein level is decreased due to drug's capability to bind and repress (or to down-regulate) the PXR-promoter, then the co-administered drug(s) capable of binding to and activating the PXR-protein will not eliminate, and thereby, its toxicity level, if any will greatly increase resulting in failure of combination therapy.  
  Therefore, to overcome above-described problems of failure of combination therapy, screening of drugs to assess their capability to bind and induce (or to up- regulate), to bind and repress (or to down-regulate) the PXR-promoter is also required before it is administered to a patient. With aim to provide solution to these problems, inventors have developed a novel and inventive pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR)-promoter-reporter construct, and a stable and integrated pregnane and xenobiotic 

 receptor (PXR) promoter-reporter construct-cell line made therefrom which has been found to be capable of screening the drugs to assess their capability to bind and induce (or to up-regulate), to bind and repress (or to down-regulate) the PXR-promoter, and thereby, to know its indirect action on level of PXR-protein before its administration to a patient so that unexpected failure of combination therapy can be avoided or at least chances of its failure be minimized.  
  The inventors have observed that if an integrated cell line comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 February 2011 is treated with a drug it, surprisingly and unexpectedly, assesses its capability to bind and induce (or to up-regulate), or its capability to bind and repress (or to down-regulate) the PXR-promoter on its administration, and hence, assesses its capability to indirectly influence PXR-protein level which has helped in avoiding failure of combination therapy before administration of the drug.  
  Accordingly, the present invention relates to a stably integrated pregnane and xenobiotic receptor (PXR) promoter-reporter construct-cell line comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 February 201 1 [the e-mail confirmation of submission is enclosed], which is capable of assessing drug's capability to bind and induce (or to up-regulate), or its capability to bind and repress (or to down-regulate) the PXR-promoter on its administration, and hence, its capability to indirectly influence PXR-protein level on its administration so as to avoid failure of combination therapy before administration of the drug.  
  Accordingly, the present invention also relates to a PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 February 2011, which is capable of integrating in a human cell line to produce a stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 

 February 201 1 and being capable of assessing drug's capability to bind and repress, or to regulate the PXR-promoter on its administration, and hence, its capability to indirectly influence PXR-protein level on its administration so as to avoid failure of combination therapy in-advance.  
  Accordingly, the present invention also relates to a PXR-promoter-reporter construct comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 February 2011, which has been found to be capable of expressing reporter gene.  
  The accompanying Figure 1 illustrates nucleotide sequence of the PXR-promoter in accordance with present invention, which is human PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region. The judiciously selected PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region of present invention was obtained from www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. The positions of different PCR primers which were found suitable for generating PXR-promoter-reporter constructs in accordance with present invention have been underlined, and serial number and starting or terminating coordinates thereof have also been labeled, and the reverse primer sequences complementary to the sequences are shown in underlined lower case letters.  
  In accordance with still another embodiment of the present invention, it relates to a process for preparing a stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region, wherein the process comprises steps of:  
  a) deriving PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank 
 Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 February 2011 ;  
  b) amplifying said PXR promoter of step-a) by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using human genomic DNA;  
  _ c) cloning the amplified product of step-b) into a basic vector containing a reporter gene to generate proximal PXR-promoter-reporter construct;  
  d) integrating PXR-promoter-reporter construct of step-c) into a cell line to produce desired stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line comprising PXR promoter. 

 In accordance with preferred embodiment of present invention, the 1 139 base pairs derived from 5 '-proximal human PXR-promoter comprising -1096 to +43 region are as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1.  
  In accordance with preferred embodiment of present invention, the vector is preferably pGL3 basic vector and reporter gene is preferably luciferase reporter gene.  
  In accordance with preferred embodiment of present invention, the cell line is human liver cell line, which is identified as HepG2 human liver cell line.  
  In accordance with preferred embodiment of present invention, the PXR promoter having said sequence listing is obtained from human genome database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov).  
  In accordance with one of preferred embodiments of present invention, the polymerase chain reaction has been carried out by employing one or more of the forward primer [F] and the reverse primer [R] as defined in Table I. The inventors confirm that these forward primer [F] and reverse primer [R] or pairs thereof have been found to be suitable to generate the PXR-promoter-reporter constructs of present invention.  
 Table I: Sequences of primers for generating PXR-promoter-reporter constructs  
 
 
 
  wherein serial numbers of primers have been shown in Roman letters; 'F' and 'R' denote the forward and reverse primers. 

 In accordance with one of the preferred embodiments of the present invention, the sites GGATCC, ACGCGT and AAGCTT shown in 'bold' in said primers have been found to be restriction enzyme sites for BamHI, Mlul and Hindlll respectively.  
  The primers employed in the PCR in accordance with present invention, forward primer -1096 F (forward primer No. I) contains BamHI restriction site and rest of all other forward primers (forward primer Nos. II, III, IV, V and VI) contain both BamHI and Mlul restriction enzyme sites whereas, the reverse primers (reverse primer Nos. VII and VIII) contain Hindlll restriction enzyme site. The PCR could be performed following the common procedure.  
  In accordance with present invention the primers used to amplify the 5' proximal 
 PXR-promoter (1 139 bp) and the truncated fragments of 5' proximal region of PXR- promoter have been defined in above Table - 1. The primers presented in S. No. T and 'VIP of above Table I were used for 1139 bp (-1096 to +43) amplification, S. No. 'IP and 'VIP for 637 bp (-594 to +43), S. No. 'IIP and 'VIP for 540 bp (-497 to +43), S. No. 'IV and 'VIP for 440 bp (-397 to +43), S. No. 'V and 'VIP for 358 bp (-315 to +43), S. No. 'VP and 'VIP for 240 bp (-197 to +43) and S. No. 'VP and 'VHP were used for 114 bp (-197 to -83) amplification. The forward primers are designated by 'F' and reverse primers by 'R'.  
  In accordance with one of the preferred embodiments of present invention, the PXR promoter of present invention as derived in above process step-a) has been identified as parental PXR promoter as i) p-1096/+43, and used to one or more generate deletion PXR promoters which have been identified as ii) p-594/+43, Hi) p-497/+43, iv) P-397/+43, v) P-315/+43, vi) p-197/+43, and vii) p-197/-83 of which only the PXR promoters identified as p-1096/+43, p-594/+43, p-497/+43 and p-315/+43 have surprisingly shown better promoter activity as reflected in selected reporter [Figure 2B]. However, the promoter identified as p-497/+43 has unexpectedly and surprisingly shown best promoter activity as reflected in selected reporter [Figure 2B]. The inventors have observed that PXR promoter of -497 to +43 region, unexpectedly and surprisingly shows best promoter activity as reflected in selected reporter [Figure 2B].  
  Accordingly, in accordance with one of the preferred embodiments, the present invention also relates to parental PXR promoter identified as p-1096/+43 generating deletion PXR promoters identified as and selected from the group comprising p-594/+43, P-497/+43, Ρ-397/+43, p-315/+43, p-197/+43 and p-197/-83, respectively comprising 

 PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region, -594 to +43 region, -497 to +43 region, -397 to +43 region, -315 to +43 region, -197 to +43 region and -197 to -83 region.  
  In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention, it relates to parental PXR promoter identified as p-1096/+43 generating deletion PXR promoters identified as and selected from group comprising p-594/+43, p-497/+43 and p- 315/+43, respectively comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region, -594 to +43 region, -497 to +43 region and -315 to +43 region.  
  In accordance with best preferred embodiment of the present invention, it relates to PXR promoter identified as p-497/+43 comprising PXR promoter of -497 to +43 region.  
  In accordance with present invention, in above process step-c), the amplified PCR products were digested with Mlul and Hindlll restriction enzymes so as to achieve its better integration with basic vector and cloned into pGL3 basic mammalian expression vector containing firefly luciferase reporter gene to result in PXR promoter- reporter constructs of present invention, which is identified as and selected from a group comprising p-1096/+43 Luc, p-594/+43 Luc, p-497/+ 43 Luc, p-397/+43 Luc, p-315/+43 Luc, p-197/+43 Luc and p-197/-83 Luc [Figure 2A] of which, in view of above findings as reflected in selected reporter [Figure 2B], the PXR promoter-reporter constructs identified as and selected from a group comprising p-1096/+43 Luc, p-594/+43, p- 497/+43 and p-315/+43 have surprisingly shown better promoter activity. However, the inventors have found that PXR promoter-reporter construct comprising PXR promoter of -497 to +43 region has, unexpectedly and surprisingly, shown best promoter activity. The advantage of digesting PCR products with Mlul and Hindlll restriction enzymes is that the basic vector, which as per preferred embodiment of present invention is pGL3, and primer pairs of present invention as illustrated in Table - I also contain sites for these enzymes which have been found to result in stable constructs and stably integrated cell lines.  
  Accordingly, in accordance with one of the preferred embodiments, the present invention also relates to PXR promoter-reporter constructs identified as and selected from the group comprising p-1096/+43 Luc, p-594/+43 Luc, p-497/+43 Luc and p- 315/+43 Luc respectively comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region, -594 to +43 region, -497 to +43 region and -315 to +43 region. 

 In accordance with best preferred embodiment, the present invention relates to PXR promoter-reporter construct identified as p-497/+43 Luc comprising PXR promoter of -497 to +43 region.  
  When constructs of present invention p-1096/+43 Luc and p-497/+43 Luc, and constructs identified as 'promoter-less basic luciferase reporter vector' (pGL3 basic), androgen response element-thymidine kinase-Luc (ARE-tk-Luc), glucocorticoid response element-Luc (GRE-Luc) were transiently transfected in equal concentration into human liver cell line HepG2 cells, and treated with vehicle control dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) : ethanol in 1 : 1 ratio and 10μΜ of herbal drug resveratrol, the luciferase (Luc) activities [Figure 3] were confirmative of the fact that the drugs surprisingly and unexpectedly up-regulated the promoter activities only of components P-1096/+43 Luc and p-497/+43 Luc of the present invention and not of any other components confirming surprising and unexpected results of components p-1096/+43 Luc and p-497/+43 Luc of the present invention.  
  In accordance with preferred embodiment of the present invention, the construct is selected from a group comprising and identified as p-497/+43 Luc (or as DH5a p- 497/+43 Luc) and p-1096/+43 Luc (or as DH5a p-1096/+43 Luc), which have been deposited at International Depository Authority, Microbial Type Culture Collection & Gene Bank, Institute of Microbial Technology, Sector 39-A, Chandigarh - 160036, India respectively under the Accession numbers - MTCC 5551 and MTCC 5552 on 07 May 2010, and are subject matter of the present invention. The Receipts of Deposit with Viability Statements are enclosed.  
  Based on above findings, the inventors have developed the integrated cell lines in accordance with present invention, which have been identified as i) parental cell line Hepx-1096/+43, and ii) Hepx-497/+43, wherein 'He' represents HepG2 human liver cell line which have surprisingly been found to show better promoter response when a drug is interacted with these cell lines to assess its capability to bind or regulate the PXR promoter. However, the inventors have found that integrated cell line identified as Hepx- 497/+43 has, unexpectedly and surprisingly shown best promoter response when a drug is interacted with this cell line to assess its capability to bind or regulate the PXR promoter activity.  
  Accordingly, in accordance with one of the preferred embodiments, the present invention also relates to an integrated cell line identified as parental cell line Hepx- 

 1096/+43 and Hepx-497/+43 respectively comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region and -497 to +43 region.  
  In accordance with best preferred embodiment, the present invention relates to an integrated cell line identified as Hepx-497/+43 comprising PXR promoter of -497 to +43 region.  
  In accordance with preferred embodiment of the present invention, the integrated cell lines identified as and chosen from group comprising Hepx-497/+43 and Hepx- 1096/+43 have been deposited at National Center for Cell Science, NCCS Complex, P.B. No. 40, Ganeshkhind P.O., Pune - 411007, Maharashtra, India on 01 May 2010 and are subject matter of the present invention. The certificate dated 01 May 2010 of deposit is enclosed.  
  In accordance with one of the preferred embodiments the present invention, the selected reporter is preferably luciferase.  
  In accordance with present invention, the integrated cell line identified as Hepx- 1096/+43 and Hepx-497/+43 were found to be capable of enhanced expression of reporter gene when these were activated by drugs, xenobiotics and endobiotics, and of these integrated cell lines Hepx-497/+43 cell line was found to be more capable of enhanced expression of reporter gene when it was activated by drugs, xenobiotics and endobiotics. Therefore, as per present invention integrated cell line identified as Hepx- 1096/+43 and Hepx-497/+43 are better tools and Hepx-497/+43 cell line is the best tool for high throughput screening of drugs, xenobiotics and endobiotics to assess their capability to bind or regulate the PXR promoter.  
  Accordingly, the inventors have surprisingly found that promoter-activation elements exist between coordinates -1096, -497 and -397 of proximal PXR-promoter of present invention [Figure 2B].  
  In accordance with one of the preferred embodiments of the present invention, the PXR promoter-reporter construct of present invention and employed in method of present invention is selected from a group comprising p-497/+43 Luc and p-1096/+43 Luc deposited at International Depository Authority, Microbial Type Culture Collection & Gene Bank, respectively under the Accession numbers - MTCC 5551 and MTCC 5552 on 07 May 2010.  
  In accordance with one of the preferred embodiments of the present invention, the integrated cell line of present invention and as produced by method of present 

 invention is selected from groups comprising Hepx-497/+43 and Hepx-1096/+43 which has been deposited at NCCS of 01 May 2010.  
  The above technical effects were verified by identifying putative promoter regulatory elements involved in basal expression of PXR protein, wherein a proximal PXR-promoter fragment encompassing nucleotide from -1096 to +43 of present invention was fused with luciferase (Luc) reporter gene to create PXR-promoter-reporter construct of present invention identified as p-1096/+43 Luc. In the next step, p-1096/+43 Luc was used to generate a series of luciferase reporter constructs containing sequentially deleted PXR-promoter as described herein and illustrated in accompanying Figure 2A.  
  The capabilities of PXR-promoter-reporter constructs of present invention have been confirmed by transiently transfecting the human liver cells - HepG2 with equimolar amounts of each of the constructs i.e. p-1096/+43 Luc and its sequentially deleted regions as illustrated in Figure 2A. After 24 h of incubation period, luciferase reporter activities for each of the transfected constructs were determined and plotted in Figure 2B. When HepG2 cells were transfected with PXR-promoter-reporter construct identified as p-1096/+43 Luc and compared to cells transfected with the empty luciferase reporter vector, surprisingly an increase in the reporter activity was observed. A deletion of about 502 bases from the 5'-end of the -1096/+43 PXR-promoter resulted in PXR- promoter-reporter construct identified as p-594/+43 Luc, which more surprisingly had shown further an increase in luciferase reporter activity. An additional deletion of 97 bp resulted in PXR-promoter-reporter construct identified as p-497/+43 Luc, which unexpectedly and more surprisingly has shown highly significant increase in luciferase reporter activity. A further deletion of 100 bp resulted in PXR-promoter-reporter construct identified as p-397/+43 Luc, which unexpectedly resulted in a significant decrease in PXR-promoter mediated luciferase reporter activity. This suggests the presence of putative PXR-promoter activation element(s) between coordinates—497 and -397. Further progressive deletions of 82 bp and 1 18 bp resulted first in an increase in the PXR-promoter mediated luciferase reporter activity (in case of p-315/+43 Luc) followed by a decrease in promoter mediated luciferase reporter activity (p-197/+43 Luc) respectively. Taken together, these deletion analyses suggested the existence of putative promoter-activation elements on the proximal PXR-promoter in the sequence stretch between coordinates -497 and -397. 

 The accompanying Figure 2A and Figure 2B illustrate deletion analysis of proximal PXR-promoter of present invention by selected reporter assays, which in accordance with one of the embodiments of present invention is luciferase reporter assay, to identify the promoter-regulatory elements.  
  Figure 2A illustrates schematic representation of the proximal PXR-promoter and its various deletion constructs. The relative positions of TATA box and transcription start site (illustrated by arrow) are indicated on the top.  
  Figure 2B illustrates a graphical representation of relative luciferase reporter activities of various PXR-promoter deletions derivatives. The 'promoter-less basic luciferase reporter vector' . (pGL3) and PXR-promoter-reporter constructs were transiently transfected along with β-galactosidase (β-gal) as an internal control reporter gene into HepG2 cells as described herein. After about 24 h of incubation period, cell lysates were prepared and luciferase (Luc) and β-gal activities were determined. Luc values were normalized to β-gal values and have been shown as Luc^-gal. For clarity purpose, the graph is plotted after subtracting the background 
 
 values of 'promoter-less basic luciferase reporter vector' from Luc^-gal value of PXR promoter- reporter constructs. The data on Y-axis represent the mean ±S.E. of independent experiments.  
  In accordance with one of the particular embodiments of present invention, the process for preparing a stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line comprising PXR promoter of -497 to +43 region, comprises steps of:  
 a) deriving 5'-proximal PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 February 201 1 ;  
 b) amplifying said PXR promoter of step-a) by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using human genomic DNA using forward primer containing a BamHI restriction site (-1096 F) and reverse primer containing a Hindlll restriction site (+43 R); c) digesting PCR amplified product of step-b) with BamHI and Hindlll restriction enzymes;  
 d) cloning the PCR amplified product of step-c) into pET30b bacterial expression vector;  
 e) retrieving PXR-promoter of -1096 to +43 region from cloned bacterial expression vector of step-d) by digesting it with Kpnl and Hindlll restriction enzymes and 

 cloning it into pGL3 basic mammalian expression vector containing luciferase as reporter gene to generate proximal PXR-promoter-reporter construct, which has been found capable of expressing reporter gene;  
 f) using PXR-promoter-reporter construct comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region from PXR-promoter-reporter construct of step-e), PXR promoter deletion construct identified as p-497/+43 Luc comprising PXR promoter of -497 to +43 region was amplified and subsequently cloned into pGL3 basic vector; g) integrating PXR-promoter-reporter construct identified as p-497/+43 Luc of step- f) into a human liver cell line identified as HepG2 to produce stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line, which has been found capable of assessing drug's capability to bind or regulate PXR promoter before its administration.  
  In accordance with one of the particular embodiments of present invention, the integrated cell line prepared by above-described particular embodiment is Hepx-497/+43 which has been deposited at NCCS on 01 May 2010. The certificate of deposit is enclosed.  
  In accordance with preferred embodiment of present invention, the PXR promoter having said sequence listing is obtained from human genome database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov).  
  In accordance with another particular embodiment of present invention, the process for preparing a stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region, comprises steps of:  
 a) deriving 5 '-proximal PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 region having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 and submitted to National Center for Biological Resources (NCBI) - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov under GenBank 
 Submission ID No. 1437008 on 28 February 201 1 ;  
 b) amplifying said PXR promoter of step-a) by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using human genomic DNA using forward primer containing a BamHI restriction site (-1096 F) and reverse primer containing a Hindlll restriction site (+43 R); c) digesting PCR amplified product of step-b) with BamHI and Hindlll restriction enzymes;  
 d) cloning the PCR amplified product of step-c) into pET30b bacterial expression vector; 

 e) retrieving PXR-promoter of -1096 to +43 region from cloned bacterial expression vector of step-d) by digesting it with Kpnl and Hindlll restriction enzymes and cloning it into pGL3 basic mammalian expression vector containing luciferase as reporter gene to generate proximal PXR-promoter-reporter construct, which has been found capable of expressing reporter gene;  
 f) integrating PXR-promoter-reporter construct identified as p-1096/+43 Luc of step-e) into a human liver cell line identified as HepG2 to produce stably integrated PXR promoter-reporter construct-cell line, which has been found capable of assessing drug's capability to bind or regulate PXR promoter before its administration.  
  In accordance with one of the particular embodiments of present invention, the integrated cell line prepared by above-described particular embodiment is Hepx- 1096/+43 which has been deposited at NCCS on 01 May 2010. The certificate of deposit is enclosed.  
  In accordance with preferred embodiment of present invention, the PXR promoter having said sequence listing is obtained from human genome database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov).  
  The cell lines prepared in accordance with both of above particular embodiments were found to have stably integrated constructs of -1096 to +43 region and -497 to +43 region and were found to be capable of enhanced expression of luciferase reporter gene when integrated PXR-promoter cell lines were activated by drugs or by xenobiotic or by endobiotics. The up/down regulation of the reporter activity, mediated through stably integrated PXR-promoter-reporter construct-cell lines of present invention by drugs, xenobiotic or endobiotics exemplify xenosensing capability of the integrated cell lines of present invention.  
 Experiments:  
  The present invention is now described with reference to following experimental details which are not intended to limit scope thereof.  
 I) Luciferase reporter assay:  
  Luciferase reporter assays with drugs were performed to validate the human liver cell line stably integrated with PXR-promoter-reporter constructs of present invention. All drugs used were prepared in drug solvent DMSO:ethanol (in 1 : 1 ratio) and were studied for their effect on the cell lines prepared in accordance with present invention at 

 the final concentration of ΙΟμΜ. For comparison purposes a control set of cells were also treated with the drug solvent alone without inclusion of the drug.  
  The HepG2 cells were cultured in twelve-well culture plates at about 80% confluency and transiently transfected with PXR-promoter-reporter constructs of present invention or promoter-less basic luciferase vector (pGL3) as control sample by employing commercially available Escort IV transfection reagent. The β-galactosidase (β-gal) gene was also co-transfected along with the constructs of present invention in the ratio of 4: 1, which served as a non-modulating standard internal reporter control. After 24 h of incubation period, expression of both luciferase and β-gal were determined by their enzymatic activities, which showed PXR promoter activity as reflected by reporter (luciferase) gene expression.  
  To determine the luciferase activity, cells were lysed and used for luciferase assay using commercially available reagents. The luciferase activity was measured in a pre-programmed TD-20/20 DLReady™ luminometer (Turner Designs, USA). The β-gal activity was also determined in the same samples following standard procedure using a Benchmark microplate reader (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Philadelphia, USA). The results of which have been illustrated in accompanying Figure 2 and described herein above.  
 II) Stable integration of PXR-promoter-reporter construct into human liver cell line:  
  To generate the human liver cell line stably integrated with PXR-promoter- reporter constructs, p-1096/+43 Luc [Accession No. MTCC 5552 of IDA, MTCC & Gene Bank, the Receipt of Deposit with Viability Statement is enclosed] and p-497/+43 Luc [Accession No. MTCC 5551 of IDA, MTCC & Gene Bank, the Receipt of Deposit with Viability Statement is enclosed] a reference to above described particular embodiments is drawn. The constructs identified as p-1096/+43 Luc and p-497/+43 Luc were linearized by digestion with restriction enzymes Sail and BamHI respectively. DNA transfection was performed with Escort IV reagent. Human liver cell line, HepG2 was seeded (approximately 2.4 x 10 5  cells) in 35 mm petri plate and cultured overnight. The cells were then co-transfected with PXR-promoter-reporter construct and a plasmid vector that contains neomycin resistance gene (pcDNA3.1 ) in 10: 1 molar ratio. Following transfection period, the cells were allowed to proliferate to about 80% confluency under non-selective condition. Subsequently, cells were supplemented with complete medium containing 400 μg/ml of G418 (selective medium). The medium was 

 replaced every third day with fresh medium since the potency of the culture medium reduces in time-dependent manner. After two weeks of selection period, the cells that survive begin to proliferate as individual colonies (clones) which were isolated and further propagated in separate culture dishes under selective conditions. Individual clones were screened and compared for the stable integration of PXR-promoter-reporter by determining the luciferase activity.  
  To determine the PXR-promoter-reporter activities, cells were harvested and luciferase assays were performed. The values for luciferase activity were recorded in luminometer and the activities expressed as 'relative luciferase activity', which is relative in term of comparison of luciferase reporter activity in different clones. On the basis of luciferase values, clones showing highest luciferase values were selected. Finally selected clone expressing -1096/+43 Luc was designated as Hepx-1096/+43 [Deposited with NCCS] and the clone expressing -497/+43 Luc part was designated as Hepx- 497/+43 [Deposited with NCCS]. The clones that do not have stably integrated PXR- promoter-reporter construct did not exhibit reporter activity.  
  ΙΠ) Selection of clones of human liver cell line stably integrated with PXR- promoter-reporter constructs:  
  HepG2 cells after having cultured in 35mm culture plates were co-transfected with PXR promoter-reporter constructs identified as p-1096/+43 Luc and p-497/+43 Luc along with a vector [pcDNA3.1] containing neomycin resistance gene in a ratio of 10: 1.  
  Clones with stably integrated PXR-promoter-reporter construct were selected with complete culture medium containing drug G418 (neomycin selective medium). In all, 22 clones of Hepx-1096/+43 and 29 clones of Hepx-497/+43 proliferating in selective culture medium were collected, propagated and checked for presence of luciferase-reporter activity. For luciferase reporter assay of individual clones 3.0 x 10 4  cells / well in 48-well plate were seeded and cultured overnight in complete culture medium. Comparative results of different clones exhibiting modest to high PXR- promoter activity measured by luciferase-reporter are shown in Table II. Based on high luciferase reporter activities, clone 1 1 of Hepx-1096/+43 and clone 9 of Hepx-497/+43 were selected for validation. 

 Table II: Luciferase reporter activities of different human liver cell clones having stably integrated PXR- promoter-reporter constructs:  
   
 IV) Validation of selected stable human liver cell clones with drug:  
  The clone 11 of Hepx-1096/+43 and 9 of Hepx-497/+43 exhibiting highest luciferase reporter activities were further validated with different drugs. To validate, clones were treated with different drugs for 24 h and luciferase reporter activities were determined. The luciferase reporter activities of the drug-treated clone 9 and clone 1 1 were compared with their corresponding cell lines treated with drug solvent alone (DMSO: ethanol in 1: 1 ratio), which is referred as control. The luciferase reporter activity exhibited in drug solvent treated cells was taken as 100% for comparison purposes. The results have been shown in accompanying Figure 3 A and 3B. The Figure 3A illustrates graphical representation of relative PXR-promoter activity of the clone 11 of Hepx-1096/+43 used for screening different drugs, and Figure 3B illustrates graphical representation of relative PXR-promoter activity of clone 9 of Hepx-497/+43 used for screening the same drugs as for clone 1 1 of Hepx-1096/+43. Approximately 3.0 x 10 4  cells of either clones (Hepx-1096/+43 or Hepx-497/+43) were seeded in 48-well culture plates. On reaching about 60% confluency, they were either treated with drug solvent (control) or treated with 10 μΜ of different drugs. After 24 h of incubation period, cell lysates were prepared and luciferase reporter activities were determined. Luciferase reporter values are expressed as percentage of the activity of control cells (i.e. DMSO:ethanol). The data represent the mean ± S.E. of three independent experiments. The asterisks [*] signify luciferase reporter values that differed significantly from the 

 values of corresponding controls (P<0.05 in Student's t-test), which indicates that presently provided integrated cell lines show highest PXR-promoter activity that are significantly different.  
  These experiments demonstrate that clone 1 1 of Hepx-1096/+43 and clone 9 of Hepx-497/+43 exhibit high reporter responses to PXR-promoter activating drugs. Further, the clones could also distinguish the PXR-promoter activating drugs such as acacetin, resveratrol, kaempferol from non-activating drugs as reflected in none or insignificant luciferase reporter activities. Hence, both the clones have been found to be capable of drug screening purposes to assess drug's capability to bind or regulate the PXR promoter on its administration.  
  Accordingly, the presently provided integrated cell lines comprising PXR promoter of -1096 to +43 regions having sequence listing as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1 have been found to be capable of assessing drug's capability to bind or regulate the PXR-promoter on its administration, and therefore, have been found to be capable of assessing drug's capability to indirectly influence PXR-protein level which has been of help in avoiding failure of combination therapy.  
  Accordingly, the stably integrated PXR-promoter-reporter construct-cell lines of present invention are capable of responding at PXR promoter expression level when toxicologic or metabolic changes are caused by drugs, xenobiotics or endobiotics intervention.  
  In view of above description, the major advantages of present invention may be summarized as:  
  I. For screening and evaluating the modulatory effects of a molecule on PXR- promoter level that is to examine the up- or down regulation of PXR protein expression by molecules such as drugs, xenobiotics or endobiotics;  
  II. To predict potential drug-drug interactions by analyzing the PXR-promoter activation by screening the drugs in presently provided stably integrated cell lines integrated with PXR-promoter-reporter constructs of present invention;  
  III. To identify molecules that can modulate PXR-promoter and alter cellular levels of PXR protein expression. Any drug, xenobiotic or endobiotic molecule that can modulate the PXR protein level via PXR-promoter will be of therapeutic value or toxicological concern in differing clinical contexts. The presently provided stably integrated cell lines integrated with PXR-promoter-reporter constructs of present invention is capable of serving as a tool to screen and distinguish such molecules; 

 IV. To identify PXR-promoter regulatory proteins - The presently provided stably integrated cell lines integrated with PXR-promoter-reporter constructs of present invention are capable of studying and identifying unknown PXR regulatory proteins that may alter the cellular levels of PXR protein by interacting at the PXR-promoter.  
  Therefore, it may be concluded that with present invention a screening of a drug before its administration to know whether it will bind or regulate PXR promoter is now possible. Accordingly, the presently provided stably integrated PXR-promoter-reporter construct capable of testing drug's capability to bind or regulate the PXR promoter will ensure that co-administered drug which otherwise is capable of binding with PXR protein will not eliminate much rapidly as there will be no change in level of PXR protein, and hence, the combination therapy will not fail, but will be successful. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
