
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  “A BIO-FORMULATION FOR PRODUCTION OF VOLATILE ORGANIC 
 COMPOUNDS TO ENHANCE SHELF LIFE OF POST-HARVEST PRODUCE”  
 TECHNICAL FIELD:  
 The present invention broadly lies in the field of biotechnology and microbiology. Particularly, the present invention relates to a bio-formulation comprising the biobased substrate and a novel fungus which produces a unique spectrum of volatile compounds possessing a very potential broad-spectrum activity. Further, the present invention also provides method of producing such unique spectrum of volatile compounds, the bio-substrate and the bio-formulation and uses thereof.  
 BACKGROUND ART:  
 Reduction of post-harvest losses (PHL) is a critical issue which demands greater attention to achieve food security in India. Despite being 2 nd  largest producer of Fruits & vegetables (F&V), India loses 40-45% due to improper storage and transportation conditions. PHL of other commodities like pulses, grains and cereals apart from Fruits and Vegetables (F&V) grossly affects the national economy as well as livelihood of small holdings farmers (SHF’s). India loses -926 billion INR (-14.3 billion USD) because of the total PHL of which approx. 19.4 million USD is due to rejection at farm gates and delays in distribution process. Thus, there is a need to develop cost effective/ ecofriendly intervention to reduce PHL.  
 Majority of the techniques involved in enhancing the shelf life of F&V (uncut or cut) primarily involve two facets (a) the action of microbes as contaminants (pathogens and spoilage) during storage which leads to rotting and deterioration making it un-consumable by living beings, or (b) production of toxic secondary metabolites, prominently mycotoxins which are harmful to both humans and animals being difficult to remove/detoxify.  
 The former problem happens due to direct microbial contamination of the crop at the harvest or at storage and generally remains undetected until the crop is taken in the retail chain or food processing. There are several techniques available providing modified atmosphere with different gases for forced flow in the F&V storage boxes along with humidity control to arrest the microbial growth and deterioration. However, these technologies are very expensive and out of the reach of small holding farmers.  
 On the other hand, accumulation of the toxic secondary metabolites predominantly results due to fungal contamination as a result of mycotoxins like Aflatoxins and Fumonisins which are fatal even in parts per millions (ppm) concentration. The maximum tolerable limit of 

Fumonisins in human food is 2-4 ppm, while for aflatoxins the maximum level is 4 ppb as per Codex Alimentarius. Aflatoxins are more toxic as compared to Fumonisins and are found to be teratogenic, carcinogenic, mutagenic and immunosuppressive. These have residual effects similar to the other chemical pesticides and synthetic preservatives, apart from their lethal attributes. Hence, it is always recommended to inhibit or kill mycotoxigenic fungi as production of mycotoxin is growth associated and once produced, they contaminate the food and exist even when the producing microbe has been destroyed. Hence to enhance the concept of food safety apart from prolonging the shelf life for storage, it is extremely essential to completely sanitize the F&V from all microbial contaminants.  
 Sanitation of fresh products including fruits and vegetables is important since it drastically reduces the microorganisms thereby reducing the loss of fruits and vegetables during storage. Various strategies have been developed comprising of physical and chemical method or their combinations for enhancing the shelf life. However, such technologies are cost intensive and at times out of the reach of farmers (small holding) who are financially not so well to purchase these technologies. Use of such technologies for sanitation purpose may lead to an increase in the harvest product cost. The physical techniques generally involve washing the vegetables and fruits with carbon dioxide sparged water, ozone treatment, UV treatment and cold storage. These processes are also very energy intensive. The treatment of the fresh produce with UV in particular UV-C plays an important role in detoxification of mycotoxins from the fresh produce to a great extent. Some people have developed chemicals and washing agents to sanitize fruits and vegetables for reducing bacterial contamination where carboxylic acid salt and its liquid solution is used, however, it is predominantly applied to cut vegetables as compared to whole farm fresh vegetables. It is well known fact that cut vegetable market predominantly exist in west as compared to India (US Patent no. 163989OA).  
 Food coatings is yet another method of keeping F&V fresh for longer duration of protection against chemicals, microbial contamination and oxidative decay. Researchers have developed edible coatings for preserving the quality and freshness of fruits as well as prevent them from microbial spoilage or degradation (Indian Patent 702/Del/1999). Phosphatides like lecithin have also been developed into film coatings to enhance the shelf life of F&V which also helps in preventing them from drying out. Commonly used coatings materials comprise of carob beans, pullulan, carrageenan, chitosan, alginates, pectin’s, cellulose and starches (Carbohydrates), collagen and keratin (proteins) and bees wax, polycosanols, carnauba wax (Solid fats). Several synthetic polymers have also been used for the purpose of using as a 

coating such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinyl acetate (PVAc), polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) or polyacrylates. Interventions like a composition comprising of a hydrocolloid, an edible wax, a fatty acid and an edible alkaline component have been developed for coating plant matter and thereby reduce the plant's postharvest water losses, weight and quality reduction. However, these interventions make the end product quite expensive.  
 Despite the use of edible coatings, inhibiting the spoilage of flora and decreasing the risk of pathogens is of prime importance and therefore there is a need to add antimicrobial agents in these coatings. Apart from a variety of antimicrobials, several edible films and coatings such as benzoic acid , propionic acid, sorbic acid (organic acids), glycerol monolaurate (fatty acid esters), nisin, lactoferrin and peroxidase (polypeptides), oregano, cinnamon and lemon grass ( essential oils) are also identified. For instance, Citral (3, 7-dimethyl-2, 6-octadienal) is an unsaturated terpene from citrus fruits which is recognized as a safe additive by USFDA and exhibits a broad range of antimicrobial and anti-fungal activity (US 7465469B2). Essential oils, plant extracts and ethanol have been exploited due to their antimicrobial action and volatile nature as they in headspace of food packs increase microbial stability while mildly affecting the sensory attributes (Kapetanakou & Skandanis, Current Opinion in Food Science, 2016, 12: 1-12).  
 Fungi which produces various mixtures of gas-phase, carbon-based compounds called volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are studied in regard to the storage of fruits and vegetables. VOCs, from endophytic genus Muscodor have also been isolated and exploited for agrochemical applications. Several Muscodor strains such as Muscodor albus CZ620, Muscodor crispans and Muscodor vitigenus have been exploited till date which have been exclusively isolated from Cinnamomum zeylanicum (from Honduras), Ananas ananassoides (Bolivian Amazon Basin) and Paulliana paullinioides (Peruvian amazon forest). Composition of volatile organic compounds (VOC’s) from these Muscodor isolates possess biological activity and can kill or pathogenic microbes i.e. bacteria and fungi apart from some insects.  
 VOC’s produced by these organisms are species specific. Taxonomic differences and molecular phylogenetic analysis in Muscodor fungi has also been reported using VOC signatures.  
 It is well known that natural products are generally perceived to be milder with low environmental impact apart from providing greater safety.  
 The major limitation of the existing technologies is the modified atmosphere i.e. an environment in which pathogenic and spoilage microorganisms cannot survive, thereby 

drastically reducing the chances of decay and deterioration due to accumulation of volatile inside fruit & vegetable packing. The present inventors have provided such bio-formulation which enhances the shelf life of fruits and vegetables and also delays the ripening process.  
 OBJECTIVES OF THE INVENTION  
 An objective of the present invention is to provide a novel bio-formulation.  
 Yet another objective is to provide a novel bio-substrate.  
 Another objective of the invention is to provide the bio-formulation comprising the novel bio- substrate and a novel fungus which produces a unique spectrum of volatile compounds possessing a very potential broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity.  
 Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a method of producing the bio- substrate and the bio- formulation.  
 Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a novel fungus.  
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION  
 The present invention relates to a novel bio-formulation comprising the bio-substrate and a novel fungus which produces a unique spectrum of volatile compounds possessing a very potential broad-spectrum activity. The novel fungus is Muscodor kashayum #16AMLWLS. The bio-formulation of the invention exhibits anti-microbial activity and inhibits bacteria, fungi, yeasts thus, exhibiting a broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity. Briefly, the bio- formulation of the invention is “Bactericidal”, “Fungicidal” and “Anti-candida” in nature. The bio-formulation of the invention is a synergistic composition which is capable of eradicating or drastically reducing the count of spoilage and pathogenic microorganisms inhabiting or infecting F&V, grains, pulses, dairy products (such as eggs), unconsumed cooked food, raw meat, fish etc.  
 The invention also relates to a bio-substrate that aids in production of the unique spectrum of volatile organic compounds possessing a very potential broad-spectrum activity. 

The novel fungal strain of the invention has been deposited at IMTECH, Chandigarh. The deposition number of the strain is MTCC-25403  
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES  
 The accompanying drawings illustrate some of the embodiments of the present invention and, together with the descriptions, serve to explain the invention. These drawings have been provided by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. The components in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the aspects of the embodiments:  
 Figure 1: Phylogenetic analysis of Muscodor kashayum. Phvlogeneticallv. M. kashayum clearly confirmed its basal position in clade A. with significantly high bootstrap value distinct from M. suthepensis which was much lower, indicated genetic and evolutionary differences.  
 Figure 2a and 2b Scanning electron micrographs of Muscodor kashayum #16AMLWLS grown on PDA for 10 days exhibiting the mycelial arrangement and morphological structures.  
 Figure 3: In vitro assay for antimicrobial activity of the VOC’s against spoilage and pathogenic microorganisms Candida albicans, Cercospora beticola, Fusarium species, Staphylococcus aureus.  
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION  
 The present invention is now described with reference to the tables/figures and specific embodiments, including the best mode contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the invention. This description is not meant to be construed in a limiting sense, as various alternate embodiments of the invention will become apparent to persons skilled in the art, upon reference to the description of the invention. It is therefore contemplated that such alternative embodiments form part of the present invention.  
 Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the phrases “comprise” and “contain” and variations of them mean “including but not limited to”, and are not intended to exclude other moieties, additives, components, integers or steps. Thus, the singular encompasses the plural unless the context otherwise requires. Wherever there is an indefinite article used, the specification is to be understood as contemplating plurality as well as singularity, unless the context requires otherwise. 

The term room temperature means 25°C- 35°C.  
 The term “modified atmosphere” means a closed environment where the volatiles accumulates inside the closed container and create an environment in which pathogenic and spoilage microorganisms cannot survive, thereby drastically reducing the chances of decay and deterioration.  
 The present invention relates to a bio-formulation comprising of a novel bio-substrate and a novel fungus which produces a unique spectrum of VOC’s possessing a very potential broad- spectrum activity. The novel fungi are Muscodor kashayum #16AMLWLS. The bio- formulation of the invention exhibits anti-microbial activity and inhibits bacteria, fungi, yeasts thus, exhibiting a broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity. Briefly, the bio-formulation of the invention is “Bactericidal”, “Fungicidal” and “Anti-candida” in nature. The bio-formulation of the invention is a synergistic composition which is capable of eradicating or drastically reducing the count of spoilage and pathogenic microorganisms inhabiting or infecting fruits and vegetables, grains, pulses, dairy products (such as eggs), unconsumed cooked food, raw meat, fish etc.  
 It is demonstrated and experimentally proved in the present invention that Muscodor kashayum #16AMLWLS is a dueteromycetous fungus (Mycelia sterilia) and exists as an endophytic species which belongs to the group Xylaria. It is genetically distinct from other reported Muscodor species from different parts across the globe.  
 The present strain of Muscodor fungi, Muscodor kashayum sp. nov is isolated by using the volatiles of previously discovered Muscodor albus cz620 (received from Gary Strobel) as a stress tool since, only Muscodor species can survive or resist the presence of volatiles of another Muscodor species while other fungi is eradicated or drastically inhibited by the volatile organic compound’s gaseous mixture.  
 The Muscodor kashayum #16AMLWLS. has been deposited at the International Depository Authority (IDA), India at Microbial Type Culture Collection (MTCC) & Gene Bank at CSIR- Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh, India under the accession number MTCC 25403. 

The present invention establishes the fact that the signature VOC’s produced by Muscodor kashayum #16AMLWLS inhibits bacteria, fungi, yeasts and hence, exhibits a broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity (Table 1). The volatiles completely destroy the growth of Aspergillus spp., Penicillium spp. and Fusarium spp. which are mycotoxigenic. Apart from these the volatiles also inhibited other pathogenic as well as spoilage fungi such as Lasiodiplodia theobromae, Curvularia lunata MTCC 283, Bionectria ochroleuca, Botrytis cinerea MTCC 359, Cercospora beticola, Chaetomium heterosporum MTCC 345, Colletrotrichum gloeosporioides MTCC 9623 whereas in others the growth has been drastically inhibited up to 85% of their original growth. It is also able to inhibit and destroy Candida species, apart from bacteria which comprises of E. coli, P. aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus which also are opportunistic human pathogens (Table 1).  
 The VOC’s of Muscodor kashayum are “Bactericidal”, “Fungicidal” and “Anti-candida” in nature. Interestingly, the VOC’s produced by M. kashayum are unique, and have not been previously reported by any other Muscodor species (Table 2) or not been exploited so far for sanitization and extending the shelf life of food materials (raw, fresh and processed) in India or globe.  
 In an embodiment, the present invention provides a unique bio-substrate for the production of volatile organic compounds, wherein said bio-substrate comprises carrier selected from wood powder or turnings, rice husk, Isabgol husk, or agricultural by-products or agricultural wastes, ground pulverized grains, potato dextrose broth (PDB) and stabilizing agents, and wherein the ratio of wood tumings/wood powder: rice husk : Isabgol husk: ground pulverized grains is 0.75:1:0.75:05.  
 In an embodiment, the potato dextrose broth (PDB) is in a ratio of 5% (v/w).  
 In an embodiment, the potato dextrose broth is freshly prepared.  
 In another embodiment, said agricultural waste/ byproduct is hulls of seeds, pulverized rice /wheat husk and grains. 

In still another embodiment, said bio-substrate comprises 1 Rice husk: 0.75 Saw dust: 0.5 seed hulls: 0.5 pulverized grain.  
 In yet another embodiment, said grain is wheat, rice, rye or barley.  
 In another embodiment said stabilizing agent is a carbohydrate.  
 In still another embodiment, said carbohydrate is selected from the group consisting of dextrose, sucrose, trehalose or raffinose.  
 In yet another embodiment, the stabilizing agent is selected from 1% trehalose, 0.5 polyethylene glycol (6000) and 0.5% Lactose/sucrose.  
 In a specific embodiment, the bio-substrate comprises wood powder or turnings, Rice husk, Isabgol Husk and Rye/wheat grain in ratio of 0.75:1.00: 0.75:0.5 w/w, freshly prepared potato dextrose broth (PDB) comprising of 5% (v/w) and stabilizing agents.  
 In another important embodiment, the present invention provides a bio-formulation comprising the bio-substrate as claimed in any of the claims 1-8 and a culture of Muscodor kashayam (MTCC-25403).  
 In still another embodiment, the culture of Muscodor kashayam (MTCC-25403) produces a unique spectrum of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs).  
 In yet another embodiment, said bio-formulation is in the form of a wettable powder (WP), an emulsifiable concentrates, gel, pellets or soluble liquids.  
 In another embodiment, said formulation is in the form of a filter paper, pad or sachet.  
 In still another embodiment, said formulation comprises a mixture of volatile compounds (VOCs) comprising: i. 3-cyclohexen-1-ol, 1-(1,5-dimethyl-4-hexenyl)-4-methyl- (Synonym: β-Bisabolol); ii. 2,6-Bis (1,-dimethylethyl)-4-(1 -oxypropyl) phenol; 

 iii. 1,6- Dioxacyclododecane-7, 12-dione; iv. 2,3-dihydro-1,1-dimethyl-6-tert-butyl-1H-indene-4-acetic acid; v. 2,4-Di-tert-butylthiophenol; vi. 4-Octadecylmorpholine and, vii. 2-(4-morpholinyl) ethanamine.  
 In yet another embodiment, said formulation is effective in enhancing the shelf life of fruits, vegetables and grains such as Strawberry’s, Apples, Grapes, Mandarins, Oranges, Guavas, Mangoes, Lychees, Tomatoes, Onions, Okra, pulses, chickpea, wheat and rice.  
 In another important embodiment, the present invention provides a method for preparing a bioformulation comprising the steps of:  
 I. growing a culture of Muscodor preferably in fresh potato dextrose broth (FPDB);  
 II. incubating the culture with agitation and aeration, at a temperature between 23-33 °C and pH between 3-7, for 3-14 days;  
 III. mixing the harvested Muscodor kashayum culture grown at step I, with the composite sterile bio-substrate along with the broth;  
 IV. incubating the mixture obtained from step III for 1-10 days;  
 V. adding a stabilizing agent; and  
 VI. drying the formulation with sterile air between 28-35 °C  
 In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of a microorganisms in post-harvest products, said method comprising the delivery of the composition of naturally produced VOC’s through the bioformulation as claimed in claim 9.  
 In still another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of protecting and enhancing the shelf life of fruits, vegetables, seeds and grains from infestation by a microorganism viz. fungus, a bacterium, a yeast or an actinomycetes, wherein the method comprises delivery of the composition of naturally produced VOC’s through the bioformulation as claimed in claim 9, causing a delayed process of ripening of fruits and vegetables apart from antimicrobial action thereby extending their shelf life. 

In another embodiment, the present invention also provides a novel strain of Muscodor kashayam with the deposition number MTCC 25403  
 The present disclosure with reference to the following accompanying examples describes the present invention. However, those of skill in the art should, in light of the present disclosure, appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is understood that the examples are provided for the purpose of illustrating the invention only, and, are not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way.  
 Examples:  
 Example 1: Isolation of the fungus  
 Leaves of Aegle marmelos, also known as Bael, a medicinal plant in Ayurvedic literature was collected from Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, Muthanga, Kerala, during July 2019. The leaves were stored in sterile packets and stored at 4 ± 2°C till further use. Stress VOC based assay was used for isolation of Muscodor kashayum sp.nov., using volatiles of Muscodor albus CZ620 Woropong, Strobel and Hess, as an isolation tool as reported by Ezra et al. (2004). Adaxial and abaxial sides of leaves of Aegle marmelos were disinfected, made sterile using 75% ethanol for 30 s, 2% sodium hypochlorite for 3 min and 95% ethanol under a laminar flow hood. These were then sectioned into segments of 5 mm x 5mm and then placed in three sections of the four sectioned commercially available petri dishes containing pre-sterilized water agar (WA). In the fourth quadrant a 5 mm mycelial plug of actively growing M. albus CZ620 was placed on a pre-sterilized Fresh Potato Dextrose Agar (FPDA). The Muscodor albus CZ 620 was inoculated into the petri-dish 3 days at 23 ± 2 °C for the production of VOCs (volatile organic compounds) prior to the inoculation of the sterilized leaf segments. The fungi emerging out of the host tissue was aseptically sub-cultured onto a fresh PDA plate so as to obtain pure isolate(s). The only organisms developing from the plant material were the ones which were resistant to M. albus CZ620, which are possibly other volatile antibiotic producers or possibly related to the genus Muscodor in the Xylariaceous group (Strobel et al., 2001). This isolated Muscodor strain was initially designated as #16AMLWLS. The strain is now deposited at the International Depository Authority (IDA), India at Microbial Type Culture Collection (MTCC) & Gene Bank at CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh, India under the accession number MTCC 25043. 

Example 2: Fungal growth and storage  
 The morphological identification of the fungi generally involves induction of fruiting bodies or spore production on basis of which a presumptive identification is generally made. Hence the fungus #16 AMLWLS was inoculated on a host of different solid media such as MEA, CMA, PDA, CDA, WA, BLA. There was no spore production on any of the media.  
 The fungus was stored using paper disc cultures and glycerol stocks. For preparation of the paper culture, a filter paper discs of Whatman no.42 were sterilized and place on sterile PDA plate. An agar plug of Muscodor kashayum was placed in the middle of the disc and incubated at 24±2 °C for 18 days. Subsequently the paper disc was removed from the plate and kept in air under sterile conditions for approx. 48 hours until it became completely dry. It was then cut into small pieces using sterile scalpel under the laminar flow. These paper cultures were then stored at 24±2 °C, 4 °C, 0 °C, and -20°C. The agar plugs of the actively growing fungus were also stored in 15% glycerol and stored at -20 °C till further use. The viability of the paper culture as well as glycerol stocks were placed on PDA and incubated for 3-5 days for examining the fungal growth.  
 Example 3: Genomic DNA isolation & amplification of its-5.8 srDNA region  
 3-4 days old mycelia of #16 AMLWLS (Muscodor kashayum sp. nov.) was scrapped from culture plate using a sterile loop and was pulverized in a pestle and mortar using liquid nitrogen. DNA extraction was done by using the Wizard ®Genomic DNA purification kit (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) as per the manufacturer’s instructions.  
 The purified DNA was quantified using a nano- drop spectrophotometer to assess the purity. Muscodor specific primers developed by Ezra et al. (2009) viz. M. albus F (5' GGGAGGCTACCCTATAGGGGATAC3') and M. albus R (5'CAGGGGCCGGAACCACTACAGAGG3') were used for amplifying the ITS-5.8S rDNA region of #16AMLWLS. The PCR mixture comprised 25 ng of extracted genomic DNA, 25 mM MgCh, 2.5 mM dNTP, 10 pmol / μl of each primer, 1.5 U of Taq DNA polymerase in 10X Taq buffer while the PCR amplification conditions used have been previously described by Ezra et al. (2009). The ITS rDNA PCR amplicon of approximately 500-600 bp was resolved onto 1.5% agarose gel and further purified by Wizard® SV Gel and PCR clean-up system kit 

(Promega). The purified ITS rDNA amplicons were then sent for sequencing to Xcleris Genomics, Xcleris labs, Gujarat, India.  
 Example 4: Sequence assembly and phylogenetic analysis  
 Sequencher ver.5 was used for assembling the obtained sequences and subsequently submitted to GenBank with accession no. KC481680. The sequence so obtained was compared to sequences of other type species of Muscodor reported across the globe. Briefly the sequences were aligned with the obtained ITS sequence of #16AMLWLS using Clustal W option in MEGA 5.0 (Tamura et al. 2011). The phylogenetic map was constructed by using all 12 reported species of Muscodor. Xylaria arbuscular and Peziza badia were taken as outgroup in the phylogenetic analysis. The Clustal W aligned sequences were made uniform by manually correcting the aligned sequences. The alignment was exported to the MEGA format. The evolutionary distances were inferred by using maximum likelihood method based upon the Kimura-2-parameter model.  
 One thousand (1000) bootstrap replicates were taken into account to infer the bootstrap consensus tree for the representation of evolutionary history. Branches corresponding to partitions reproduced in less than 26% bootstrap replicates are collapsed. Initial tree(s) for the heuristic search were obtained by applying the neighbour joining method to a matrix of pairwise distances estimated using the maximum composite likelihood (MCL) approach. Gaps were treated as missing data.  
 Results:  
 Muscodor kashayum ITS sequence in BLAST Analysis exhibited 99% sequence similarity with Muscodor sp. strain J8, Muscodor sp. strain Y-L-54, Muscodor oryzae JCM18231, Muscodor musae CMU MU3, Xylariaceae species ARIZ FL 1963, Muscodor crispans. However, its exact phylogenetic position could be inferred only after phylogenetic analysis and mapping of its taxonomic identity with already know type/ novel species reported so far. The phylogram (Fig.l) clearly indicates Muscodor kashayum (#16 AMLWLS) is a novel type species.  
 Example 5: Morphological studies using Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) 
 Agar plugs of 10 days old culture of #16AMLWLS was kept in 2.5 % glutaraldehyde in 0.1M phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) overnight at 4°C. Next day, they were washed twice with 0.1 M phosphate buffer at a 10 min interval. Thereafter, the samples were slowly dehydrated using acetone-graded series (10 min each at 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 95% and 100%). The samples were then brought to critical point drying and coated with gold palladium using a 

sputter coater. The images were then recorded in high vacuum mode using Zeiss Evo40 (Carl- Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) SEM with a magnification range in between 307 X and 2.02 KX at 15-kV extra high tension (Ezra et al. 2004; Kudalkar et al. 2012).  
 Results:  
 Morphologically Muscodor kashayum #16 AMLWLS is different from M. yucantanesis and M. equiseti as it does not have swollen hyphae. Further, it is different from M. cinnamomi, M. crispans and M. sutura by the absence of cauliflower-like or non-descript structures. Muscodor kashayum does not have wavy margins or hairy mycelium which makes it distinct from Muscodor musae. Further it does not produce any pigment as produced by M. roseus, M. suthepensis, M. oryzae and M. sutura. The fungus in nature is associated with Aegle marmelos and an Ascomycete with sterile mycelium. Fungal colonies are milky white and form a floccose mycelium pattern on PDA when grown in a 12-h photoperiod for 10 days at 26 ± 2°C. Mycelium on PDA produced a growth rate of 4.5-4.7 ± 1.41 mm day-1 having a pungent smell. Spores and fruiting bodies did not develop under any tested conditions. The hyphae of M. kashayum measure 2.14— 5.41-pm in thickness and coils (47.38-50.38 pm diameter) appear like a fused rope-like hyphal strands with branching at right angle (2.33-11.25 μm). The fungal culture produces VOCs with a strong pungent odor only in PDA, MEA and CDA medium. Volatile production was comparably higher in PDA than to MEA and CDA. Spores and fruiting bodies did not develop under any of the tested conditions.  
 SEM Microphotographs depicted the detailed morphological characters of Muscodor kashayum #16 AMLWLS, M. kashayu5m formed thick and long mycelium which exhibited a branching similar to the roots of a Ficus benghalensis (Fig.2.). Mycelial rings were formed which were connecting the mycelium from several places, no fruiting bodies were observed. Morphologically, the SEM picture confirmed Muscodor kashayum #16 AMLWLS to be a distinct species from all other reported Muscodor species to date. Muscodor crispans and Muscodor cinnamomi exhibit a cauliflower like sterile structures and possess a ropy-coiled mycelium. Muscodor yucatanensis has a ropy structure with swollen hyphae whereas Muscodor albus only exhibits a ropy mycelium without any fruiting bodies, spores or sterile structures. On the other hand, Muscodor satura forms knitting pattern of mycelial network over the PDA plate making it remarkably dissimilar from M. kashayum #16 AMLWLS.  
 Example 6: Volatile production and in vitro antimicrobial assay  
 Muscodor kashayum sp. nov. #16AMLWLS was grown on different substrates such as PDA, Rye grains, Wheat grains, combination of novel bio-substrates like rice husk, psyllium husk, 

wood powder, wood turnings etc. to produce volatile organic compounds. Further the VOC’s so produced were tested for their antimicrobial profile. For instance, in case of PDA the medium was poured in four sections of a sterile commercial petri plate and allowed to solidify under aseptic conditions. On solidification, one quadrant was inoculated with a mycelial plug of #16 AMLWLS and incubated for 3 days at 26 ± 2 °C. Subsequently the rest of the three quadrants were inoculated by the test bacteria/fungi/yeast. In the control plate all the three quadrants had the test culture while the fourth quadrant remained un-inoculated. Reduction in the colony size of the culture in the test quadrant was assessed due to the presence of VOC’s produced by M. kashayum. Further percentage reduction in colony size was arrived to due to the bioactivity of VOC’s (Table 1).  
 Results:  
 Bioassay method adopted for evaluating the volatiles produced by Muscodor kashayum revealed a potent broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity against a test panel of microorganisms comprising of both gram+ve and gram-ve bacteria, fungi and yeasts. A total of 29 microorganisms were tested of which 15 were fungi. 04 were yeasts and 10 were bacteria. Only 66.6% fungal isolates in the test panel exhibited 100 % reduction in the growth i.e. no growth was observed as they were completely inhibited the VOC’s produced by Muscodor kashayum #16 AMLWLS. 20% of the fungal isolates exhibited a 50% reduction on colony size due to VOC’s of M. kashayum. Among yeasts 100% inhibition was obtained in three isolates while 20% inhibition in colony diameter was observed in the case of Saccharomyces cerevisiae which is generally recognized as GRAS. Among the bacterial isolates tested 80% exhibited 100% kill/inhibition in the presence of volatile antibiotics of Muscodor kashayum. Bacillus subtilis only exhibited 20% reduction in the growth while Staphylococcus epidermidis exhibited 50% reduction in colony size/growth when compared to the control. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Example 7: Analysis of volatiles produced by Muscodor kashayum sp. nov. #16AMLWLS The method to analyze the air space above the mycelium of Muscodor kashayum was trapping via using solid phase microextraction as well as by trapping them on amorphous carbon columns. The solid phase microextraction method comprised of using a “Solid Phase Micro Extraction” syringe which was used to trap the fungal volatiles. The syringe was having a stable flex fiber made up of 50/30 divinylbenzene/carboxen on polydimethylsiloxane (Supelco, Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA). The syringe was placed through a small hole drilled in the side of the Petri plate and exposed to the vapor phase for approx. 45 min. Subsequently the syringe was then inserted for 30 s exposing the flex fiber in the Shimadzu QP 2010 (Columbia, MD, USA) plus Gas chromatograph with TD-20 (Shimadzu, Columbia, Maryland, USA) thermal desorption system. The GC column comprised of (diphenyl (95%) and dimethyl polysiloxane (5%) as the stationary phase. The length of the column was 30 m with 0.25mm internal diameter and 0.25 mm film diameter. The column was programmed at 100°C for 2 min and the temperature was then raised to 250°C for 2 min and then finally to 300°C for 13 min. The carrier gas was helium and the initial column head pressure as 94.4 KPa. Data acquisition and processing was done on GC-MS (Shimadzu, Columbia, Maryland, USA) solution 

 software. Comparable analysis was conducted on un-inoculated substrate as PDA or complex bio-substrate in the petri dish to explore the background volatiles, which were later on subtracted from the analysis of fungus containing plate.  
 Another strategy was trapping the VOC’s produced in headspace of a jar on to a column of activated charcoal. Briefly the activated charcoal column of 70 mm x 25 mm was used for trapping the volatiles  
 The compounds were identified using NIST (National Institute of Standard and Technology) database with a high-quality scoring of over 75% similarity. Further they were compared with all the reported species of Muscodor till date (Ezra et al. 2004; Kudalkar et al. 2012).  
 Results:  
 Muscodor kashayum #16 AMLWLS produced a mixture of 20-26 volatile organic compounds (VOC’s) which were identified using the GC-MS spectral analysis with support of the NIST database. The characteristic volatile signatures produced by M. kashayum comprised of β- Bisabolol (3-Cyclohexen-1-ol, 1-(1, 5-dimethyl-4-hexanyl)-4-methyl). The other prominent volatiles produced by M. kashayum comprised of 2, 6-Bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-(1 -oxopropyl) phenol; 1 , 6, -Dioxacyclododecane-7, 12-dione and 2,3,-dihydro-1,1-dimethyl-6-tert-butyl-1 H indene-4-acetic acid (Table 2)  
 Some unknown compounds in trace amounts have also been reported. The gas chemistry of Muscodor kashayum is entirely different from other Muscodor species. The signature compounds produced by other species of Muscodor comprise of 2-methylpropanoic acid; Azuelene, Naphthalene and its derivatives, Thujopsene etc. The VOC’s produced by Muscodor kashayum are unique but are not reported previously by other reported species of Muscodor till date.  
 Table 2: Major volatiles produced by Muscodor kashayum after 10 days of incubation using solid phase micro-extraction (SPME) fibre for GC-MS analysis. 
 
 
 
 The volatile exhibiting the broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity are induced by the novel biosubstrate and bio-formulation which are released naturally. So, the biologically designed biosubstrate is the driver for production of these compounds. When this organism is grown on a regular culture plate then the spectrum changes, which affects the antimicrobial activity of the volatiles so produced. The inventors did a very preliminary study on some compounds which were available with the inventors under in vitro conditions, to ascertain their activity. The inventors found that though the VOCs are active but not as potential as the naturally produced admixture.  
 In case of analysis, the inventors entrapped the VOC’s through a solid phase microextraction needle (SPME) and then went for a GC-MS/MS analysis to identify the compounds based on NIST Library.  
 Example 8: Bio-formulation of Muscodor kashayum sp. nov. and its activity as a post-harvest preservative/sanitizer to enhance the shelf life  
 Bio-formulation Development:  
 (i) Muscodor kashayum is grown in bulk in a 5-liter flask comprising of 3 liters of fresh potato dextrose broth (pH 3-7).  
 (ii) 1% inoculum was added to the medium from a 7 -day old liquid culture aseptically into the flask.  
 (in) The inoculated flask is then incubated at between 23-30 °C (optimal 26±2 °C), 120 rpm (for agitation as well as aeration), 12 hours photoperiod for a period of 05-14 days. The highest biomass is preferably achieved on 10 th  day  
 (iv) The biomass is collected through the process of filtration aseptically as then weighed under aseptic conditions. 

 (V) Subsequently the freshly harvested biomass of Muscodor kashayum is mixed w/w with the composite sterile substrate in ratio of 6:10 (i.e. 60% w/w) respectively. 
 (vi) The sterile composite substrates were generally composed of combinations of different agricultural materials (waste and non-wastes in 1 : 1 ratio) such as rye grain: rice husk, rice husk: wood powder; rye grain: wood powder; wheat grain: rye grain; wheat grain: rice husk; wheat grain: wood powder).  
 (vii) Subsequently 5% v/w broth is added to the mixture.  
 (viii) This is further amended by addition of stabilizing agents, such as trehalose, polyethylene glycol, lactose and sucrose apart from some clay from the ground. 
 (ix) The formulation is further incubated between 24 to 28 °C for a period of 6-12 days, preferably for 8 days.  
 (x) Subsequently the formulation is dried in a stream of sterile air between 23-35 °C and the sachets of different weights were prepared.  
 In this test set the formulation developed and delivered through sachets similar to tea bags were tested for their efficacy to prevent post-harvest decay of fruits ad grains under simulated and non-simulated conditions.  
 Example 9: Activity of M. kashayum formulation on Strawberries  
 Healthy strawberries (Fragaria vesca) was procured and checked for any visible wounds (for reducing obtrusion and innate infections). These were then washed thoroughly with running water and 10% formaldehyde. Then they were again washed with sterile distilled water to remove the traces of formaldehyde. Subsequently the fruits were blotted dry aseptically. Conidial suspension of Botrytis cineria (grey mold) MTCC359 was prepared by adding 5-6 mycelial plugs of the 7-day fungus on PDA plates to sterile physiological saline. Subsequently the saline solution was vigorously vortexed to recover conidia. The concentration was adjusted to 1x 10 4  spores/ml using a hemocytometer (Mercier and Jimenez, 2004). Subsequently fruits were infected with Botrytis cineria by creating a lesion in the equator of Strawberries with a sterile nail of 4mm tip. Then 10 μl of spore suspension of B. cineria was dropped either 24 hrs before (pre-inoculation) or immediately before the experiment. Then these were placed in an 8 L plastic boxes with wounded side up. 8-10 strawberries were kept in a row inside the box i.e. there was two rows per box. (i.e. 16-20 strawberries/ box). There were three such boxes per treatment.  
 For preservation/ sanitization, 25 g/ 50g sachets were placed inside the treated boxes after dipping it in water for 15 -30s and further incubating for 30 min to 2 hrs between 26 to 28 °C. 

 1-2 sachets were placed inside the box which was then sealed (airtight). The control set only contained the inoculated strawberries in the sealed box. There were then incubated from 19 °C to 30 °C. Disease in the test as well as control sets was evaluated as % infection after 7, 14 and 
 21 days.  
 A similar protocol can be used for Apples, Kinnows, tomatoes, onions and grapes.  
 Results  
 In this test two sets of strawberries were used i.e. untreated (control) i.e. native collected from farm end/market. Treated (control) i.e. one spiked with grey mold inoculum to produce infections. When the native strawberries i.e. untreated control was stored for 7, 14 and 21 days, they all got infected by the 7th day and degraded by 21 days. However, when the similar set of native strawberries were exposed to the VOC’s of M. kashayum, no infection was observed till 14th day whereas on 21st day there was a deterioration of ~ 8±1% of strawberries. This clearly indicated that VOC’s or volatile antibiotics of M. kashayum were enhancing the post-harvest shelf life of strawberries. Further the spiked i.e. inoculated with grey mold were also tested for their perishability in presence and absence of VOC’s of M. kashayum. In the case of control (spiked), the infection developed rapidly by the 7th day and complete deterioration occurred by 14th day and decay happened by 21st day. While in the presence of the VOC producing formulation of M. kashayum no infection, death or decay was observed till 21st day (Table 3).  
 Table 3: Effect VOC’ s of M. kashayum formulation to enhance the shelf life of strawberries under natural and treated (spiked) conditions 
 
 

Advantages:  
 > The present invention provides a non-residual technology which does not have any residual effects and standardized as per existing food safety standards.  
 > The present invention discloses a method of using naturally produced volatile organic compounds which is least energy intensive, cost effective and does not require any infrastructural setup to sanitize post-harvest products.  
 > The present invention also provides a method that does not require special skill set and training for end user application as compared to other physical and chemical technologies identified in the prior art.  
 > The bio-substrate of the invention as well as the bio-formulation is eco-friendly and easy to use.  
 > The bio-substrate of the invention as well as the bio-formulation are cost effective and does not require any infrastructural setup to sanitize post-harvest products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
