
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ANTHER-SPECIFIC TAAl GENES ENCODING FATTY ACYL CO-A REDUCTASES, AND USES THEREOF 
 1. FILED OF THE INVENTION 
 The present invention relates to genes that are specifically expressed in the anthers of plants. More particularly, the present invention relates to genes encoding fatty acyl Co-A reductase enzymes that are required for pollen grain maturation. 
 2. BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION 
 There is a significant degree of commercial interest in the development of transgenic plants with altered lipid metabolism, which generate altered or increased yields of lipid products. The development of such modified plants and crops may facilitate the manufacture of nutritional and medicinal products in crops. Therefore, the possibility of successfully generating lipid-modified plants has implications for both the agricultural and pharmaceutical industries. 
 The metabolic pathways that regulate lipid metabolism in plants are not fully understood. Different regions and organs of a plant generate alternative profiles of lipid products, with certain regions of a plant comprising a greater concentration of lipid products than others. For this reason, the genes involved in lipid metabolism must undergo differential regulation for specific lipid products to be concentrated in particular regions of the plant. Delineation of plant lipid metabolic pathways, and the generation of modified transgenic plants with beneficial characteristics, represents a considerable challenge to those of skill in the art. 
 The outer surface of pollen grains represents one region of a plant known to harbor higher concentrations of lipid products. The anthers of plants have 

evolved to coat pollen grains with an oily substance to preserve and increase the viability of the pollen. For this purpose, male gametophyte development, and in particular the interplay between the sporophytic tapetum and gametophytic microspore, is a well-orchestrated process in plants (Goldberg et al., 1993). To date, a number of genes underlying this process have been isolated and characterized. These genes may be grouped into pollen-specific and anther/tapetum-specific genes. The former are usually predominantly expressed during advanced stages of pollen development. The examples include genes encoding cytoskeletal proteins (Kandasamy et al., 1999; Lopez et al., 1996), cell wall-degrading enzymes (Brown and Crouch, 1990; Futamura et al., 2000), pollen allergens (Rafnar et al., 1991) and other genes with unknown functions (Zou et al., 1994). The other group includes genes preferentially expressed in the tapetum at relatively early stages of microsporogenesis. These include genes associated with programmed cell death (Walden et al., 1999), pollen excine formation (Aarts et al., 1997; Fuerstenberg et al, 2000; Koltunow et al., 1990), lipid transfer (Aguirre and Smith, 1993), cell wall-degradation (Bih et al., 1999; Hird et al., 1993; Rubinelli et al., 1998) and unknown functions (Jeon et al., 1999). 
 The anther tapetum plays a pivotal role in plant gametophyte development (Piffanelli et al, 1998; Shivanna et al, 1997). In addition to breakdown of callus wall around microspore tetrads and supply of nutrients to developing pollens, the essential function of the tapetum is thought to form two extracellular lipid- derived structures (pollen exine and pollen coating) of pollen grains. This assumption is established on the base of the earlier cytological observations, and recent ultrastructural and molecular studies (for recent reviews see Furness and Rudall, 2001; Huysmans et al., 1998; Piffanelli et al., 1998). For example, it has been shown that during the development of the extracellular lipidic structures, the tapetum and not the microspore is the major site of fatty acid biosynthesis (Piffanelli et al., 1997). Mutation of a tapetum-specific gene encoding a putative 

fatty lipid reductase leads to formation of exine-free pollen and male sterility (Aarts et al., 1997). Recent progress also includes the finding that two tapetum- unique lipidic organelles whose major constituents are neutral esters and polar lipids, upon lysis of the tapetal cells, are discharged into the anther locule and their components contribute to the formation of the lipidic coating of mature pollen grains (Hernandez-Pinzόn et al., 1999; Piffanelli and Murphy, 1998; Ting et al., 1998; Wu et al, 1997). 
 These findings substantially facilitate our understanding of the intrinsic link between the tapetal lipid biosynthesis and microspore development. However, the enzymes that catalyze and regulate the biochemical production of these tapetal lipidic compounds have remained unclear. Isolation and characterization of these lipid-specific enzymes would permit an improved understanding of the mechanisms of plant lipid metabolism. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
 It is an object of the present invention to isolate and characterize anther-specific genes involved in lipid metabolism, for the commercial development of useful transgenic plants and plant products. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a means for modifying lipid metabolism in plants, preferably by increasing or altering the yield of useful lipid-based products in the plants. The present invention further aims to provide a transgenic plant with increased levels of fatty alcohols, which can be harvested for use in the production of, for example, nutritional and pharmaceutical products. 
 It is another object of the present invention to provide a means of increasing the levels of fatty alcohols in designated regions or organs of a plant, for specific 

commercial purposes. These commercial purposes may include, but are not limited to, the production of crops with increased pesticide resistance, crops with altered cross-breeding activity, plants with increased levels of lipid products concentrated in regions that permit facile harvesting and extraction. 
 It is further an object of the present invention to isolate and characterize genes expressed in the tapetum, and their corresponding proteins, that are required for the formation of the outer cell wall of pollen grains during microspore development. In this way, the present invention aims to alter anther-specific properties of a plant to induce, for example, male sterility, and developmental or reproductive modifications that are commercially useful properties. It is still further an object of the present invention to provide a transgenic plant, comprising a construct wherein anther-specific promoters are utilized to generate useful products in the anthers and pollen cells of the transgenic plants. 
 It is a further object of the present invention to provide isolated recombinant proteins involved in plant lipid metabolism, which can be used in the commercial ex vivo production of fatty alcohols. 
 The peptides of the present invention, and their corresponding nucleotide sequences, have significant potential for use in the generation of genetically modified plants with altered profiles, or increased or otherwise altered levels of lipid compounds, as well as plant having desirable anther-specific and whole- plant phenotypic modifications. 
 The inventors of the present application have succeeded in isolating and purifying both the genomic and cDNA sequences of a family of three closely related genes that are predominantly expressed in the tapetum of anthers. The genes were isolated from the bread wheat species 'Triticum aestivum and are designated TAAla, TAAlb, and TAAlc. The cDNA sequences of these genes have 

permitted the characterization of the corresponding protein products, which can function as fatty acyl Co-A reductases. Transgenic plants overexpressing a TAAl gene can comprise higher than normal levels of fatty alcohols. It is considered that similar transgenic plants will have strong potential for the generation of crops capable of producing fatty acid products for agricultural, nutritional and pharmaceutical purposes. 
 Moreover, isolation of the corresponding genomic DNA sequences for the TAAl genes has permitted the characterization of the anther-specific TAAl gene promoters. These promoters are tapetum specific and have significant potential for the generation of constructs for use in transgenic plants, wherein the constructs comprise a gene of choice under the control of the anther-specific promoter. In this way, numerous properties of the plant can be modified to alter, for example, the developmental, reproductive, and aesthetic properties of the plant. 
 In accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an isolated and purified nucleotide sequence, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is endogenously expressed in wheat anthers, and encodes a peptide having fatty acyl Co-A reductase (FAR) activity. The present invention therefore provides characterization of a novel family of genes that are involved in lipid metabolism in anthers of plants and encompasses all such corresponding homologous genes. 
 In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides an isolated and purified nucleotide sequence, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) a TAAl gene, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and 
 (b) a nucleotide sequence having at least 50% identity to a peptide encoded by a TAAl gene, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; 

 the nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. 
 Preferably, the isolated and purified nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and 
 (b) a nucleotide sequence having at least 50% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; the nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. More preferably, the nucleotide sequence has at least 70%, more preferably 90%, more preferably 95% and most preferably 99% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof. In this way, the nucleotide sequences of the present invention include TAAl homologous genes from species of plants other than wheat, as well as closely related wheat homologues, polymorphisms and mutated variants of the genes. The invention further encompasses nucleotide sequences that will bind to SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, or, 5 under stringent hybridization conditions, including nucleotide sequences suitable for use as hybridization probes, PCR primers and DNA sequencing primers. 
 In further embodiments, the present invention also encompasses isolated and purified peptides, or parts thereof, encoded by TAAl genes, or possible variants of the TAAl genes disclosed herein. Such peptides may be used in the production of pharmaceutical or nutritional agents as appropriate. 
 The present invention further encompasses expression cassettes and constructs comprising TAAl gene sequences and variants, complements, or parts thereof. Preferably, the expression cassettes and constructs include a TAAl gene sequence 

open reading frame operably linked to a promoter for expression of the TAAl gene product, or part or variant thereof. Preferably, the expression cassettes and constructs of the present invention are suitable for transformation into plants. In this way, transgenic plants having altered lipid metabolism or altered lipid content can be generated. More preferably, the altered lipid metabolism or altered lipid content at least partly occurs within the anthers and / or pollen of the transgenic plant. 
 The transgenic plants of the present invention therefore include plants expressing the nucleotide sequences disclosed herein, and homologues and variants thereof, thereby increasing, decreasing or changing the lipid content of the plant compared to an unmodified plant. More preferably, the change in lipid content may specifically relate to the fatty alcohol content of the plant, and more preferably the fatty alcohol content of the anthers and / or pollen of the plant. The transgenic plants of the present invention include species of a woody plants, non-woody plants, and grasses, as well as plants selected from the group consisting of crucifer crops, tobacco, wheat, corn, sugar cane, and apple. 
 In an alternative embodiment, the transgenic plants of the present invention may include constructs wherein the TAAl gene or part or variant thereof is under the control of an organ-specific promoter. In this way, the promoter can direct the expression of the nucleotide sequence to affect a particular organ or organs of the plant. The transgenic plants of the present invention may exhibit one or more modified characteristics compared to an unmodified plant including, but not limited to: increased pest resistance; male sterility; reduced height; reduced internode spacing; increased resistance to wind damage; reduced growth rate; altered cross-pollination specification; increased fruit or nut aesthetic appeal; delayed vegetative development; and delayed propagative development. 

 The transgenic plants of the present invention may contain constructs characterized in that the nucleotide sequence expressed is oriented for antisense expression from the construct, thereby causing a reduction in the levels of fatty acyl Co-A reductase compared to an unmodified plant, and a corresponding decrease in the levels of fatty alcohols present in the plant. 
 The present invention further encompasses an isolated and purified nucleotide sequence, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: (a) SEQ ID NO: 7, 8, or 9 or a complement thereof; and (b) a nucleotide sequence that can hybridize to SEQ ID NO: 7, 8, or 9 or a complement thereof under stringent hybridization conditions. Therefore, the invention encompasses the corresponding genomic DNA sequences for the TAAl family of genes, including promoter sequence disclosed in SEQ ID NOS: 7, 8, and 9, or TAAl promoter sequence obtained by chromosome walking a genomic DNA library for 5' (and 3') untranslated regions of the TAAl genomic DNAs. Furthermore, in alternative embodiments the invention includes nucleotide sequences for use as hybridization probes, PCR primers or DNA sequencing primers, that bind to the TAAl sequences under stringent hybridization conditions. Preferably, the promoters of the present invention can be used to direct the expression of a gene unrelated to fatty acyl Co-A reductases in the anthers and pollen grains of transgenic plants. Most preferably, the promoter of the present invention may comprise of genomic DNA sequence of about l.όkb upstream from the start codon of SEQ ID NO: 8. 
 In additional embodiments, the present invention includes constructs comprising TAAl promoter sequences in operative association with an open reading frame, or a part thereof or a complement thereof, for use in modifying anther, tapetum or  ■  pollen metabolism. The constructs may be transformed into plants to generate transgenic plants with altered characteristics. For example, the invention encompasses transgenic plants transformed with a construct having a TAAl 

promoter or part thereof in operative association with an anther or pollen inactivating gene, wherein expression of the open-reading frame induces male sterility of the transgenic plant. Alternatively, the open-reading frame may encode a transposase, and expression of the open-reading frame may induce an increased rate of genomic DNA rearrangement in anther or pollen cells of the transgenic plant. Alternatively, the open-reading frame may encode a peptide suitable for use as a nutritional or pharmaceutical agent, the peptide being expressed in anthers or pollen of the transgenic plant. Alternatively, the open- reading frame may encode a peptide required for the production of a nutritional or pharmaceutical agent, or a protein that inhibits the production and / or accumulation of an unwanted substance selected from the group consisting of a toxin, and an allergen, or a peptide for altering the cross-pollination specification of the transgenic plant. Alternatively, the open reading frame may be oriented for antisense expression within the construct, thereby inducing antisense repression of endogenous gene expression within the anthers, tapetum or pollen of the transgenic plant. 
 The present invention further provides, in alternative embodiments, for a means for generating fatty alcohols that may be used as nutritional or pharmaceutical agents. The fatty alcohols may be purified from extracts of the transgenic plants using techniques that are well known in the art. Preferably, the fatty alcohols generated by the transgenic plants of the present invention include Octacosanol; a fatty alcohol known to produce health benefits including enhances physical endurance and reproductive health. Moreover, in another preferred embodiment, the transgenic plants of the present invention may be used to generate fatty alcohols for the washing and cleaning industry. In alternative embodiments, the transgenic plants of the present invention may bear fruit with increased levels of fatty alcohols, wherein the fruit include wax derived from the fatty alcohols to help preserve the fruit and improve the aesthetic appeal of the fruit, thereby improving shelf life. The increased levels of wax production in the plants of the 

present invention are further predicted to confer enhanced properties such as reduced rates of moisture loss, and increased resistance to pests. 
 The invention further encompasses the fatty alcohols derived or extracted from the transgenic plants or other transformed organisms (e.g. bacteria) of the present invention, and their use, for example as a wax, as a cleaning agent, as a cosmetic agent, as a dermatological agent, as a pharmaceutical agent, or as a nutritional agent. 
 The invention further encompasses pharmaceutical and nutritional compositions and agents comprising the plant extracts and fatty alcohols obtained from the transgenic plants of the present invention, as well as methods for treating or preventing a medical condition, or for providing a dietary supplement, by the administration of the plant extracts or fatty alcohols of the present invention. 
 The invention further encompasses method for the production and isolation of fatty alcohols, characterized in that the method comprises the steps of: transforming an organism with a construct comprising a TAAl gene sequence, or part thereof, or complement thereof in accordance with the present invention; growing or propagating said organism containing said construct; and extracting said fatty alcohols from said organism. Preferably, the organism is an E.coli bacterium, such that recombinant E.coli comprising increased or altered levels of fatty alcohols may be cultured and harvested. In an alternative embodiment, the organism may comprise a plant or a plant embryo, preferably a tobacco plant or tobacco plant embryo, that is induced to express the construct and generate increased or altered levels of fatty alcohols. Similarly, such transgenic plants may be grown and / or propagated thereby allowing plant extracts to be harvested and fatty alcohols to be purified by standard techniques. 

The invention further encompasses a method of inducing dwarfism in a plant, characterized in that the method comprises the steps of: transforming a plant cell, plant embryo or plant with a construct according to the present invention; and growing or propagating said plant cell, plant embryo, or plant, thereby generating a plant expressing a DNA sequence encoded by said construct, said plant having a reduced size compared to an unmodified plant. 
 4. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
 Figure 1 (a) schematically illustrates the genomic organization of TAAla, TAAlb, and TAAlc. Triangles and rectangles represent introns and exons, respectively. The length (bp: base pair) of each intron and exon is shown above and in the corresponding triangle and rectangle. The stippled and hatched triangles indicate a very long intron and an intron with alternative insertion position in TAAlb, respectively. The putative translation start (AUG) and stop (TGA) codons, and 5 ' and 3' UTR (untranslational region) are given. (A)n represents a poly(A) tail. For clarity, cDNA sequences and introns are not drawn to scale. 
 Figure 1 (b) provides a genomic DNA blot analysis of different wheat species. Molecular size makers are indicated at left in kilobases. Sources of DNA are shown. Total DNA (10 μg) was digested with EcσRI (E), BamΗI (B) and Hindlll (H), separated on a 1% agarose gel, blotted onto a nylon membrane, probed with the coding region of TAAla, and visualized by exposure to an x-film. 
 Figure 2 (a) demonstrates anther-specific expression of TAAl. R, roots; S, stems; 
 L, leaves; A, anthers; O, ovary; G, glume and pilea. Northern blot analysis of 
 TAAl expression in wheat. Total RNA (about 5 μg) purified from root, stem, leaf, anther, ovary, and pilea and glume was loaded. A 0.7 kb fragment of the TAAla 

cDNA resulting from 5' RACE was used as a probe. The estimated size of hybridizing RNA species is shown to the left side. Underneath is the same blot hybridized with a 28S rRNA probe. 
 Figure 2 (b) demonstrates anther-specific expression of TAAl. R, roots; S, stems; L, leaves; A, anthers; O, ovary; G, glume and pilea. RT-PCR amplification of cDNA derived from different wheat tissues. Underneath is the same cDNA amplified with a pair of primers to a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene (GPD). 
 Figure 3 In situ RNA hybridization. The cross-sections of wheat flower buds were hybridized with TAAl anti-sense and sense transcript. Hybridization was shown by the formation of a dark bluish precipitate. Solid arrow head: tapetum; unfilled arrow head: micropore; m, microspores; ov, ovary; and ps, pollen sac. Scale bars=l OOμm. 
 (a) probed with a TAAla sense transcript. 
 (b) probed with a TAAl antisense transcript. 
 (c) sectioned at stage pre-meiosis, probed with a TAAl antisense transcript. 
 (d) sectioned at stage young microspore, probed with a TAAl antisense transcript. (e) sectioned at stage vacuolated microspore, probed with a TAAl antisense transcripts. 
 Figure 4 Immunocytochemical detection of the TAAl protein on the wheat anthers. The sections were immunoblotted with either pre-immune serum or TAAla antiserum. Positive antibody recognition was shown by the formation of bluish deposits. M, microspores; ps, pollen sac, arrow heads, tapetum. Scale bars=100μm. 
 (a) imrnunoreacted with pre-immune serum (control). 
 (b) with TAAla antiserum. (c) an enlarged pollen sac of (a) (control). 

(d) sectioned at the young microspore stage and immunoreacted with TAAla antiserum. 
 (e) sectioned at the vacuolated microspore stage. 
 Figure 5 (a). Amino acid sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis of TAAl. Pair-wise alignment of the amino acid sequence of TAAla with that of FAR according to Pearson and Lipman (1998). Δ represents gaps which are introduced to allow the best matches. The dashes in FAR indicate the identical residues to TAAla. Two potential transmembrane helixes predicted by Metz et al. (2000) are underlined. 
 Figure 5 (b). Phylogenetic analysis of TAAl and its related genes. The sequences of all related genes were obtained from public databases and refer to the following: FAR, the jojoba acyl coenzyme A reductase (accession no. AF149917); MS2-like; a predicted gene from Arabidopsis (accession no. AB012244); MS2, the Arabidopsis male sterility 2 gene (accession no. S33804); B-MS2, the Brassica MS2 gene (accession no. T08096). 
 Figure 6 (a) Fatty alcohols in transgenic seeds and E. coli. Fatty alcohol content in the tobacco seeds transformed with the Napin-TAAla chimeric gene. The amounts of fatty alcohols obtained from GC analysis were normalized against the internal standard beta-sitosterol. The y-axis of the graph illustrates percentage 'FA' of the relative amounts of fatty alcohols to beta-sitosterol (%). Line 723-0-D was transformed with the control vector. All the remaining (477-0-4, 477-0-18, 477-0-2, and 477-0-10) were the Napin-TAAla transgenic lines. 
 Figure 6 (b) Gas chromatography (GC) analysis of fatty alcohol amounts and compositions in bacterial cells without ((i) upper graph), or with ((ii) lower graph) expression of TAAla. t = retention time in minutes, and CL = chain length of fatty alcohol standards. 

Figure 7. Over-expression of TAAl results in significant dwarfϊsm in transgenic tobacco. Vector: transgenic plants containing NPTII resistant gene only; 35S::TAA1 : transgenic containing both NPTII resistant gene and 35S::TAAla chimeric gene. In this example, TAAl was over-expressed constitutively. (a) Three-week old seedlings in MS medium, (b) Plants three weeks after transplanting in a greenhouse, (c) Plants two months after transplanting in greenhouse. 
 Figure 8 Transient expression assay of TAAl promoter specificity. Hand cross- section of Daylily flower buds were bombarded with microprojectiles coated with either the CaMV35S-w«£4 (a) or TAAl-uidA chimeric genes (b). 35S-GUS transient expression was observed in anther walls, filaments, and petals (a). In contrast, TAA1-GUS transient expression limited in microspores and tapetum (arrow) (b). an: Anther, f: Filament, m: microspores, pe: petal, ps: pollen sac. Scale bars= 1 mm. 
 Figure 9 GUS expression pattern in transgenic tobacco anthers, (a) and (b) show GUS assays on hand cross-sections of anthers at different developmental stages of a transgenic plant containing a TAAl-uidA chimeric gene, (a) at the tetrad stage and (b) at the microspore separation stage, (c) and (d) show paraffin cross- sections of anthers of transgenic plants containing a 35S-uidA chimeric gene and a TAAl-uidA chimeric gene, respectively, aw: anther wall; cn: connective tissue; ep: epidermis; m: microspores; t: tapetum. Scale bars=200μm. 
 GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
 Amplification of DNA / amplified DNA: "amplified DNA" refers to the product of nucleic-acid amplification of a target nucleic-acid sequence. Nucleic-acid amplification can be accomplished by any of the various nucleic-acid 

amplification methods known in the art, including the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A variety of amplification methods are known in the art and are described, inter alia, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,683,195 and 4,683,202, and in Innis et al. (eds.), PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications, Academic Press, San Diego, 1990. 
 Construct: A construct comprises a vector and a DNA molecule operatively linked to the vector, such that the vector and operatively linked DNA molecule can be replicated and transformed as required. 
 Expression: The generation of a protein product derived from a DNA sequence encoding the protein, comprising a combination of transcription and translation. 
 Homologous: DNA or peptide sequences exhibiting similarity to another DNA or peptide sequences in terms of the chemical nature, order and position of the individual residues relative to one another in the sequence. For the purposes of this application, unless stated otherwise homology is characterized according to BLAST search results, wherein a best-fit sequence alignment is obtained. In this way, sequences comprising residues that are similar or identical may be aligned, and gaps provided as necessary. Homology is therefore expressed as a percentage of similarity or identity, wherein similarity encompasses both similar and identical residues. Unless stated otherwise, all BLAST searches were carried out using default parameters: e.g. gaps permitted, E- value =1, organism selected as required, filter for low complexity, standard genetic code, BLOSUM62 general purpose matrix; for more information see http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Education/BLASTinfo/tutl.html. 
 Identity: Comparison of homologous DNA or peptide sequences provides identification of residues that are identical in the same relative position of the sequence, following best fit alignment. For the purposes of this application, 

unless stated otherwise, homology, best fit alignment and identity are calculated according to BLAST search results (BLAST searching is available, for example, from the following website: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/). Identity is provided as a percentage, indicating the percentage of residues that are identical along the sequences under comparison, excluding regions of gaps between the aligned sequences. BLAST searching permits a standard alignment configuration to automatically take into account regions of gaps or truncations between sequences, thereby providing a 'best fit' alignment. 
 Isolated: A nucleotide or peptide is "isolated" if it has been separated from other cellular components (nucleic acids, liquids, carbohydrates, and other nucleotides or peptides) that naturally accompany it. Such a nucleotide or peptide can also be referred to as "pure" or "homogeneous" or "substantially" pure or homogeneous. Thus, a nucleotide or peptide which is chemically synthesized or recombinant is considered to be isolate. A nucleotide or peptide is isolated when at least 60-90% by weight of a sample is composed of the nucleotide or peptide, preferably 95% or more, and more preferably more than 99%. Protein purity or homogeneity is indicated, for example, by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of a protein sample, followed by visualization of a single peptide band upon staining the polyacrylamide gel; high-performance liquid chromatography; or other conventional methods. The peptides of the present invention can be purified by any of the means known in the art. Various methods of protein purification are described, e.g., in Guide to Protein Purification, in Deutscher (ed.), Meth. Enzymol. 185, Academic Press, San Diego, 1990; and Scopes, Protein Purification: Principles and Practice, Springer Verlag, New York, 1982. 
 Operably linked: two nucleotide sequences are operable linked if the linkage allows the two sequences to carry out their normal functions relative to each other. For instance, a promoter region would be operably linked to a coding sequence if the promoter were capable of effecting transcription of that coding 

sequence, and the coding sequence encoded a product intended to be expressed in response to the activity of the promoter. 
 Organ: A specific region of a plant defined in terms of structure and function, for example, a stem, a leaf, an anther, a pollen grain, or a root. 
 Promoter: A recognition site on a DNA sequence or group of DNA sequences that provides at least one expression control element for a gene encoding a polypeptide, and to which RNA polymerase specifically binds and initiates RNA synthesis (transcription) of the gene. 
 Stringent conditions, or stringent hybridization conditions: includes reference to conditions under which a probe will hybridize to its target sequence, to a detectably greater degree than other sequences (e.g. at least 2-fold over background). Stringent conditions are sequence-dependent and will be different in different circumstances. Longer sequences hybridize specifically at higher temperatures. Generally, stringent conditions are selected to be about 5 ° C lower than the thermal melting point (Tm) for the specific sequence at a defined ionic strength and pH. The Tm is the temperature (under defined ionic strength and pH at which 50% of a complementary target sequence hybridizes to a perfectly matched probe. Typically, stringent conditions will be those in which the salt concentration is less than about 1.0 M Na ion, typically about 0.01 to 1.0 M Na ion concentration (or other salts) at pH 7.0 to 8.3 and the temperature is at least about 30°C for short probes (e.g. 10 to 50 nucleotides) and at least about 60°C for long probes (e.g. greater than 50 nucleotides). Stringent conditions may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents such as formamide. Exemplary low stringency conditions include hybridization with a buffer solution of 30% formamide, 1 M NaCI, 1% SDS at 37°C, and a wash in 2X SSC at 50°C. Exemplary high stringency conditions include hybridization in 50% formamide, 1 M NaCI, 1 % SDS at 37°C, and a wash in 0. IX SSC at 60°C. Hybridization 

procedures are well-known in the art and are described in Ausubel et al., (Ausubel F.M., et al.,1994, Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons Inc.). 
 Transformation: Modification of a cell by the introduction of exogeneous DNA sequence (e.g. a vector or recombinant DNA molecule). 
 Transgenic: A cell or organism derived from a process of cellular transformation, wherein the cell or organism comprises the introduced exogenous DNA molecule not originally present in a non-transgenic cell or organism. 
 Transgenic plant: A plant or progeny thereof derived from a transformed plant cell or protoplast, wherein the plant DNA contains an introduced exogenous DNA molecule not originally present in a native, non-transgenic plant of the same strain. The terms "transgenic plant" and "transformed plant" have sometimes been used in the art as synonymous terms to define a plant whose DNA contains an exogenous DNA molecule. However, it is thought more scientifically correct to refer to a regenerated plant or callus obtained from a transformed plant cell or protoplast as being a transgenic plant. 
 Vector: A DNA molecule capable of replication in a host cell and/or to which another DNA segment (or insert) can be operatively linked so as to bring about replication of the attached insert. A plasmid is an exemplary vector. Moreover, a vector may include promoter sequence to facilitate expression of an open reading frame present in the DNA insert. All vectors used for the present application were generated by the inventors, with the exception of: T/A vectors (Invitrogen), pRSET A (Invitrogen), phagemids (Stratagene), pRD400 and pRD410 (Datla et al. 1992), pHS724 (Huang et al., 2000), pJOY43 (Nair et al, 2000). 

7. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS 
 To support this application, two deposits of biological material have been made under the Budapest Treaty regarding Deposits of Biological Material. The deposits were made at the International Depository Authority of Canada, Bureau of Microbiology, Health Canada, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, on June 7, 2001, under accession numbers ID AC 070601-2 and ID AC 070601-1. The deposits both comprise E.coli bacterial cells, strain DH5 , transformed with constructs comprising DNA sequence ofthe present invention. Deposit number ID AC 070601-2 consists of DH5 cells transformed with pAMW133 comprising the full length coding region of TAAla cDNA. Deposit number ID AC 070601-1 consists of DH5 cells transformed with pAMW170 comprising the promoter region ofthe TAAlb gene. 
 Nucleotide sequences encompassed by the present invention 
 The present invention provides a polynucleotide molecule comprising nucleotide sequences derived from the TAAl family. The genetic sequences encompassed by the present invention include, but are not limited to, TAAla cDNA (SEQ ID NO: 1), TAAlb cDNA (SEQ ID NO: 3), TAAlc cDNA (SEQ ID NO: 5), TAAla genomic DNA (SEQ ID NO: 7), TAAlb genomic DNA (SEQ ID NO: 8), and TAAlc genomic DNA (SEQ ID NO: 9). 
 Whilst the present invention discloses polynucleotide sequences for three closely related genes, homologous nucleotide sequences encoding peptides with significant amino acid sequence identity to those encoded by SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, and 9, can be readily obtained in accordance with the teachings ofthe present application (and references disclosed herein), and are encompassed within the scope ofthe present invention. In this regard, nucleotide sequences ofthe present invention can be used to produce (degenerate) nucleotide probes, for the 

purposes of screening cDNA and genomic DNA libraries of various plant species. Related techniques are well understood in the art, for example as provided in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.(1989). In this way, sequences homologous to those ofthe present application are readily obtainable. For this reason, it is the intention ofthe present invention to encompass polynucleotide molecules comprising DNA sequences that encode peptides with significant sequence identity to those disclosed in the present application, wherein SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, or 9, or parts thereof, may be utilized as polynucleotide probes to search for and isolate homologous polynucleotide molecules. Moreover, polynucleotides encoding proteins with significant sequence identity to those of the present application are expected give rise to similar protein products with similar biochemical characteristics, to those described in the present application. Indeed, such techniques were used by the inventors to isolate the various TAAl cDNA and genomic DNA homologous sequences disclosed herein. More details in this regard are provided in the examples. 
 The present invention therefore encompasses DNA sequences obtained by techniques known in the art for isolating homologous DNA sequences, wherein the techniques utilize degenerate oligonucleotide probes derived from a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO:l, 3, 5, 7, 8, and 9, or parts thereof. The degree of amino acid sequence identity will vary for each identified sequence. It is the intention ofthe present invention to encompass polynucleotide sequences comprising at least 50% sequence identity with regard to the peptide sequences encoded by the corresponding polynucleotides. Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is generally expected in the art that enzymes with at least 50% identity can have enzymatic activities that are similar in scope. In this regard, the essential structural features ofthe enzyme are preserved to scaffold the conformation ofthe catalytic site ofthe enzyme. Therefore, the present invention encompasses polynucleotide molecules derived by screening genomic and cDNA 

libraries of plant types including wheat and other species, using degenerate DNA probes derived from the sequences disclosed in the present application. Such species include, but are not restricted to: rye, barley, rice and other grasses, and monocots such as maize, and lily. 
 The present invention also encompasses polynucleotide sequences obtained by screening DNA libraries using degenerate oligonucleotide probes derived from the polynucleotides ofthe present invention, wherein the sequences encode peptides comprising at least 70% amino acid sequence identity to peptides encoded by SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, and 9. In this regard, homologous proteins with at least 70% predicted amino acid sequence identity are expected to encompass proteins with similar fatty acyl Co-A reductase activity as those defined by the present invention, but possibly with altered substrate specificity. 
 Such proteins may be derived from related species of plant. 
 The present invention also encompasses polynucleotide sequences encoding peptides comprising at least 90%, 95% or 99% sequence identity to the peptides encoded by SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, and 9. This class of related proteins is intended to include close gene family members with very similar or identical catalytic activity. In addition, peptides with 90%, 95% or 99% amino acid sequence identity may be derived from functional homologues of similar species of plant, or from directed mutations to the sequences disclosed in the present application. 
 Isolation o/TAAl cDNA and genomic DNA homologues 
 With the provision of several TAAl cDNA and genomic DNAs, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) may now be utilized in a preferred method for isolating further TAAl homologous nucleotide sequences from wheat and other species of plant. PCR amplification ofthe TAAl cDNA sequence maybe accomplished either by direct PCR from a plant cDNA library or by 

Reverse-Transcription PCR (RT-PCR) using RNA extracted from plant cells as a template. Methods and conditions for both direct PCR and RT-PCR are known in the art and are described in numerous standard textbooks. Similarly, the TAAl genomic sequences may be amplified directly from genomic DNA extracted from plants, or from plant genomic DNA libraries. Amplification may be used to obtain the full length cDNA or genomic sequence, or may be used to amplify selected portions of these molecules (for example for use in antisense constructs). 
 Moreover, the well known technique of chromosome walking can be readily used to isolate regions of genomic DNA that are 5' or 3' to the coding region ofthe gene. The technique of chromosome walking is described, for example, in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.(1989). The present disclosure includes analysis of a region upstream of to the TAAlb genomic DNA start codon, that is suitable for use as an anther specific promoter. 
 The selection of PCR primers will be made according to the portions ofthe TAAl nucleic acids which are to be amplified, including full-length TAAl clones. Variations in amplification conditions may be required to accommodate primers ofdiffering lengths; such considerations are well known in the art. 
 Oligonucleotides which are derived from the TAAl nucleic acid sequences described herein, and which are suitable for use as PCR primers to amplify additional TAAl nucleic acid sequences are encompassed within the scope ofthe present invention. Preferably, such oligonucleotide primers will comprise a sequence of 15-20 consecutive nucleotides ofthe TAAl nucleic acid sequences. To enhance amplification specificity, primers comprising at least 20-30 consecutive nucleotides of these sequences may also be used. 

With the provision herein ofthe TAAl nucleic acid sequences, the cloning by standard methodologies of corresponding cDNAs and genes from other ecotypes and plant species, as well as polymorphic forms ofthe disclosed sequences is now enabled. Thus, the present invention includes methods of isolating a nucleotide sequence encoding a TAAl enzyme from a plant. Both conventional hybridization and PCR amplification procedures may be utilized to clone such sequences. Common to both of these techniques is the hybridization of probes or primers derived from the disclosed TAAl nucleic acid sequences to a target nucleotide preparation, which may be, in the case of conventional hybridization approaches, a cDNA or genomic library or, in the in the case of PCR amplification, extracted genomic DNA, mRNA, a cDNA library or a genomic library. 
 Direct PCR amplification may be performed on cDNA libraries prepared from the plant species in question, or RT-PCR may be performed using mRNA extracted from the plant cells using standard methods. PCR primers will comprise at least 15 consecutive nucleotides ofthe TAAl nucleic acid sequences. One of skill in the art will appreciate that sequence differences between the disclosed TAAl nucleic acid sequences and the target gene to be amplified may result in lower amplification efficiencies. To compensate for this, longer PCR primers or lower annealing temperatures may be used during the amplification cycle. Where lower annealing temperatures are used, sequential rounds of amplification using nested primer pairs may be necessary to enhance specificity. 
 Generation o/TAAl variants and mutants 
 For conventional hybridization techniques, the hybridization probe is preferably labeled with a detectable label such as a radioactive label, and the probe is ofat least 20 nucleotides in length. As is well known in the art, increasing length of hybridization probes tends to give enhanced specificity. The labeled probe 

derived from, for example, the TAAl cDNA sequence may be hybridized to a plant cDNA or genomic library and the hybridization signal detected using means known in the art. The hybridizing colony or plaque (depending on the type of library used) is then purified and the cloned sequence contained in that colony or plaque isolated and characterized. 
 It will also be understood to a person of skill in the art that site-directed mutagenesis techniques are readily applicable to the polynucleotide sequences of the present invention. Related techniques are well understood in the art, for example as provided in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.(1989). In this regard, the present invention teaches the isolation and characterization ofthe DNA sequences as provided as SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, and 9. However, the present invention is not intended to be limited to these specific sequences. Numerous directed mutagenesis techniques would permit the non-informed technician to alter one or more residues in the nucleotide, thus changing the subsequently expressed polypeptide sequences. Moreover, commercial 'kits' are available from numerous companies that permit directed mutagenesis to be carried out (available for example from Promega and Biorad). These include the use of plasmids with altered antibiotic resistance, uracil incorporation and PCR techniques to generate the desired mutations. The mutations generated may include point mutations, deletions and truncations as required. The present invention is therefore intended to encompass corresponding mutants ofthe TAAl cDNA and genomic DNA sequences disclosed in the present application. 
 The mutated variants ofthe sequences ofthe present application are predicted to include enzymes with reduced or increased fatty acyl Co-A reductase activity, as well as altered substrate specificity. Such mutants may confer advantageous properties to subsequently transformed transgenic cell lines and plants. For example, a transgenic plant comprising a construct overexpressing an inactive 

mutant ofthe enzymes ofthe present invention can be expected to have a significantly altered profile of lipid constituents, including a possible reduction in fatty alcohol content. In contrast, the expression of mutant fatty acyl Co-A reductase enzymes with increased catalytic turnover are expected to give rise to transgenic plants with an high level of fatty alcohols. Mutant fatty acyl Co-A reductase enzymes with altered substrate specificity will likely be useful in altering the relative quantities of lipid metabolism products generated in a correspondingly transformed plant, or altering the distribution ofthe lipid metabolism products within the organs ofthe plant. 
 Generation of constructs comprising TAAl sequence 
 The polynucleotide sequences ofthe present invention can be ligated into suitable vectors before transfer ofthe genetic material into plants. For this purpose, standard ligation techniques that are well known in the art may be used. Such techniques are readily obtainable from any standard textbook relating to protocols in molecular biology, and suitable ligase enzymes are readily available from commercial sources. A number of recombinant vectors suitable for stable transfection of plant cells or for the establishment of transgenic plants have been described, which are also readily available from commercial sources. Typically, plant transformation vectors include one or more cloned plant genes (or cDNAs) under the transcriptional control of 5' and 3' regulatory sequences and a dominant selectable marker. Such plant transformation vectors typically also contain a promoter regulatory region (e.g., a regulatory region controlling inducible or constitutive, environmentally- or developmentally-regulated, or cell- or tissue- specific expression), a transcription initiation start site, a ribosome binding site, an RNA processing signal, a transcription termination site, and/or a polyadenylation signal. 

As noted above, the particular arrangement ofthe TAAl nucleic acid in the transformation vector will be selected according to the expression ofthe nucleic acid desired. 
 Where enhanced fatty alcohol synthesis is desired, the TAAl nucleic acid may be operably linked to a constitutive high-level promoter such as the CaMV 35S promoter. Modification of fatty alcohols synthesis may also be achieved by introducing into a plant a transformation vector containing a variant form ofthe TAAl nucleic acid, for example a form which varies from the exact nucleotide sequence ofthe TAAl nucleic acid, but which encodes a protein that retains the functional characteristic ofthe TAAl protein, i.e., fatty acyl Co-A reductase activity. 
 In contrast, a reduction of fatty alcohol synthesis may be obtained by introducing antisense constructs based on the TAAl nucleic acid sequence into plants. For antisense suppression, the TAAl nucleic acid is arranged in reverse orientation relative to the promoter sequence in the transformation vector. The introduced sequence need not be the full length TAAl nucleic acid, and need not be exactly homologous to the TAAl nucleic acid. Generally, however, where the introduced sequence is of shorter length, a higher degree of homology to the native TAAl sequence will be needed for effective antisense suppression. Preferably, the introduced antisense sequence in the vector will be at least 30 nucleotides in length, and improved antisense suppression will typically be observed as the length ofthe antisense sequence increases. Preferably, the length ofthe antisense sequence in the vector will be greater than 100 nucleotides. Transcription of an antisense construct as described results in the production of RNA molecules that are the reverse complement of mRNA molecules transcribed from the endogenous TAAl gene in the plant cell. Although the exact mechanism by which antisense RNA molecules interfere with gene expression has not been elucidated, it is believed that antisense RNA molecules bind to the endogenous mRNA 

molecules and thereby inhibit translation ofthe endogenous mRNA or trigger the degradation of mRNA, or inhibit transcription by causing methylation ofthe gene. A variation ofthe antisense suppression includes RNAi strategy as published in the literature under various names such as double stranded (dsRNA) RNA suppression. 
 Suppression of endogenous TAAl gene expression can also be achieved using ribozymes. Ribozymes are synthetic RNA molecules that possess highly specific endoribonuclease activity. The production and use of ribozymes are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,987,071 to Cech and 5,543,508 to Haselhoff, which are hereby incorporated by reference. The inclusion of ribozyme sequences within antisense RNAs may be used to confer RNA cleaving activity on the antisense RNA, such that endogenous mRNA molecules that bind to the antisense RNA are cleaved, which in turn leads to an enhanced antisense inhibition of endogenous gene expression. 
 Constructs in which the TAAl nucleic acids (or variants thereon) are over- expressed may also be used to obtain co-suppression ofthe endogenous TAAl gene in the manner described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,231,021 to Jorgensen. Such co- suppression (also termed sense suppression) does not require that the entire TAAl nucleic acid be introduced into the plant cells, nor does it require that the introduced sequence be exactly identical to the TAAl nucleic acid. However, as with antisense suppression, the suppressive efficiency will be enhanced as (1) the introduced sequence is lengthened and (2) the sequence similarity between the introduced sequence and the endogenous TAAl gene is increased. 
 Transformation of  " TAAl constructs 
 The present invention also encompasses a plant cell transformed with a nucleotide sequence ofthe present invention, and as well as plants derived from 

propagation ofthe transformed plant cells. Numerous methods for plant transformation have been developed, including biological and physical, plant transformation protocols. See, for example, Miki et al., "Procedures for Introducing Foreign DNA into Plants" in Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Glick, B. R. and Thompson, J. E. Eds. (CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, 1993) pages 67-88. In addition, expression vectors and in vitro culture methods for plant cell or tissue transformation and regeneration of plants are available. See, for example, Gruber et al., "Vectors for Plant Transformation" in Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Glick, B. R. and Thompson, J. E. Eds. (CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, 1993) pages 89-119. 
 The following are examples, and are not limiting: 
 A. Agrobacterium-mediated Transformation: One method for introducing an expression vector into plants is based on the natural transformation system of Agrobacterium. See, for example, Horsch et al., Science 227: 1229 (1985). A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes are plant pathogenic soil bacteria which genetically transform plant cells. The Ti and Ri plasmids of A. tumefaciens and 
 A. rhizogenes, respectively, carry genes responsible for genetic transformation of the plant. See, for example, Kado, C. I., Crit. Rev. Plant. Sci.10: 1 (1991). 
 Descriptions of Agrobacterium vector systems and methods for Agrobacterium- mediated gene transfer are provided by Gruber et al., supra, Miki et al., supra, and Moloney et al., Plant Cell Reports 8: 238 (1989). Bechtold et al., C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Life Sciences, 316:1194-9 (1993). 
 B. Direct Gene Transfer: Several methods of plant transformation, collectively referred to as direct gene transfer, have been developed as an alternative to Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. A generally applicable method of plant transformation is microprojectile-mediated transformation wherein DNA is carried on the surface of microprojectiles measuring 1 to 4 .mu.m. The expression 

vector is introduced into plant tissues with a biolistic device that accelerates the microprojectiles to speeds of 300 to 600 m/s which is sufficient to penetrate plant cell walls and membranes. Sanford et al., Part. Sci. Technol. 5: 27 (1987), Sanford, J. C, Trends Biotech. 6: 299 (1988), Klein et al, Bio/Technology 6: 559-563 (1988), Sanford, J. C, Physiol Plant 79: 206 (1990), Klein et al., 
 Biotechnology 10: 268 (1992). See also U.S. Pat. No. 5,015,580 (Christou, et al), issued May 14, 1991; U.S. Pat. No. 5,322,783 (Tomes, et al.), issued Jun. 21, 1994. 
 C. Other methods: Another method for physical delivery of DNA to plants is sonication of target cells. Zhang et al., Bio/Technology 9: 996 (1991). Alternatively, liposome or spheroplast fusion have been used to introduce expression vectors into plants. Deshayes et al., EMBO J., 4: 2731 (1985), Christou et al, Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84: 3962 (1987). Direct uptake of DNA into protoplasts using CaCl 2  precipitation, polyvinyl alcohol or poly-L- omithine have also been reported. Hain et al., Mol. Gen. Genet.199: 161 (1985) and Draper et al., Plant Cell Physiol.23: 451 (1982). Electroporation of protoplasts and whole cells and tissues have also been described. Donn et al., In Abstracts of Vllth International Congress on Plant Cell and Tissue Culture IAPTC, A2-38, p 53 (1990); D'Halluin et al., Plant Cell 4: 1495-1505 (1992) and Spencer et al., Plant Mol. Biol. 24: 51-61 (1994). 
 Following transformation of target cell(s) or tissues, expression ofthe above- described selectable marker genes allows for preferential selection of transformed cells, tissues and/or plants, using regeneration and selection methods now well known in the art. 
 The foregoing methods for transformation would typically be used for producing a transgenic variety. The transgenic variety could then be crossed, with another 

(non-transformed or transformed) variety, in order to produce a new transgenic variety. 
 Alternatively, a genetic trait which has been engineered into a particular line using the foregoing transformation techniques could be moved into another line using traditional backcrossing techniques that are well known in the plant breeding arts. For example, a backcrossing approach could be used to move an engineered trait from a public, non-elite variety into an elite variety, or from a variety containing a foreign gene in its genome into a variety or varieties which do not contain that gene. As used herein, "crossing" can refer to a simple X by Y cross, or the process of backcrossing, depending on the context. Once a transgenic plant has been established, it is important to determine the phenotype ofthe seeds ofthe plant. 
 Accordingly, in a prefened embodiment ofthe invention a method is provided for modifying the seed of a plant comprising the steps of: 
 (a) introducing into a plant cell capable of being transformed and regenerated into a whole plant a construct comprising, in addition to the DNA sequences required for transformation and selection in plants, a nucleotide sequence in accordance with the nucleotide sequences encompassed by the present invention, operably linked to a promoter; and 
 (b) recovery of a plant which contains the nucleotide sequence. 
 The present invention therefore encompasses the transformation of a variety of plant species, including woody, non-woody, fruit bearing and grass species, with the DNA sequences disclosed. Particularly prefened varieties include crucifier crops, tobacco, wheat, corn, sugar cane, and apple. The present invention is particularly considered to be useful in the generation of modified fruits such as apples, since increased expression of fatty acyl Co-A reductase enzymes ofthe present invention is expected to increase the fatty alcohol concentration in the 

fruits, thus providing the fruits with a more waxy texture, and a more aesthetically pleasing coating. 
 Fatty acid analysis and purification 
 Once a transgenic plant has been established, it is important to determine the fatty alcohol content ofthe plant, or various plant organs. For this purpose, several techniques are known in the art to for the analysis ofthe chemical content of plant material, and in particular, the lipid and fatty alcohol content ofthe plant. These techniques include Gas Chromatography (GC), high performance liquid chromatography, and MS-GC, as well as other techniques that are familiar to those of skill in the art. Moreover, the fatty alcohol products may be extracted from the plant by any one of a range of techniques that are well known in the art for the purposes of lipid extraction. 
 One example of fatty alcohol purification from plant materials is outlined in the Experimental Procedures where fatty alcohols were purified for Gas Chromatography analysis. An alternative method was published by Miwa, T.K. 1971. Journal of The American Oil Chemists' Society. 48:259-264, in relation to jojoba oil analysis. 
 Production of recombinant TAAl protein using heterologous expression systems 
 Many different expression systems are available for expressing cloned nucleic acid molecules. Examples of prokaryotic and eukaryotic expression systems that are routinely used in laboratories are described in Chapters 16-17 of Sambrook et al. (1989), which are herein incorporated by reference. Such systems may be used to express a TAAl protein or derivatives thereof at high levels to facilitate purification and functional analysis ofthe enzyme. Apart from permitting the activity ofthe enzyme to be determined (which is particularly useful to assess the 

activity of homologous and derivative proteins), heterologous expression facilitates other uses ofthe purified enzyme. For example the purified enzyme produced by recombinant means may be used to synthesize fatty alcohols and other fatty acid metabolites in vitro, particularly radio- or fluorescent-labeled forms of fatty alcohols and metabolites. These molecules may be used as tracers to determine the location in plant tissues and cells of fatty alcohols and their metabolites. The purified recombinant enzyme may also be used as an immunogen to raise enzyme-specific antibodies. Such antibodies are useful as both research reagents (such as in the study of fatty alcohol regulation in plants) as well as diagnostically to determine expression levels ofthe enzyme in agricultural products, including pollen. 
 By way of example only, high level expression ofthe TAAl protein may be achieved by cloning and expressing the cDNA in yeast cells using the pYES2 yeast expression vector (Invitrogen, San Diego, Calif.). Secretion ofthe recombinant TAAl from the yeast cells may be achieved by placing a yeast signal sequence adjacent to the TAAl coding region. A number of yeast signal sequences have been characterized, including the signal sequence for yeast invertase. This sequence has been successfully used to direct the secretion of heterologous proteins from yeast cells. Alternatively, the enzyme may be expressed at high level in standard prokaryotic expression systems, such as E. coli. 
 Homology of TAAl nucleic acids to other plant genes 
 It is predicted that the TAAl genes are the first anther-specific genes in wheat to be reported. TAAl appears to be related to the jojoba FAR (reported by Metz et al., 2000). Both have an M r  of ~ 58,000, and share -44% aa identity and -63% similarity. This FAR is the only biochemically characterized enzyme for which a deduced structure is available. It belongs to the category of alcohol-forming 

FARs that produces fatty alcohols directly from fatty acyl CoA, one of the two penultimate substrates in wax biosynthesis (Kolattukudy, 1970). The other category of fatty acyl CoA reductases is smaller and produces aldehydes (M r  - 30 kDa) (Vioque and Kolattukudy, 1997), and thus TAAl is further distinct from these. In jojoba, FAR was isolated from developing seeds. It is not clear if it is also expressed in the anther and other tissues. 
 The predicted TAAl gene products share a lesser, yet significant homology with two known anther-specific genes, the Arabidopsis MS2 gene (Aarts et al., 1997) and the Brassica MS2 gene (Aarts et al., 1997; Hodge et al., 1992). Both of them also share significant homology with FAR (-40% identity and -59% similarity). Any functional implication of TAAl and MS2 relationship must be considered in light of the observation that TAAl shows a greater relationship to the jojoba FAR. The Arabidopsis MS2 gene is required for pollen development (Aarts et al., 1993; Aarts et al., 1997). The post-meiotic, tapetal expression of MS2 in Arabidopsis and that of TAAl in wheat are almost identical. Thus, despite the deviation in the deduced primary structures, both appear to be functionally similar. While a partial redundancy of MS2 function has not been ruled out (Aarts et al., 1993; Aarts et al., 1995), the Arabidopsis genome database (Arabidopsis thaliana geneome CD) was searched using the MS2 aa sequence. Excluding the MS2 itself, seven hypothetical proteins including two named male sterility 2 - like, four called acyl coA reductase-like, and one putative protein were found. These proteins are 37-42% identical to and 59-65% similar with the MS2 aa sequence. These proteins range from 409 to 527 aa in length and also share aa homology to TAAl at similar levels. Moreover, BLASTN searches using the MS2 cDNA did not retrieve any more sequences than itself, indicating that at the nt level, the MS2 does not share significant homology with these predictive genes. In contrast, these genes seem to be more closely related to each other as they conserve significant similarities both at the aa level and the nt level (data not shown). However, it is not know if these genes function in pollen development. 

Aarts et al. (1993) identified a short segment of homology between a wheat mitochondrial sequence (Spencer et al., 1992) and the Arabidopsis MS2 at the deduced aa sequence level. This (93/153 aa) occuned over two stretches of the mitochondrial sequence with an unrelated sequence flanked by hallmarks of nuclear splice junctions that connected the two parts. Since splicing in mitochondrial transcripts follows a different scheme, Aarts et al. (1997) proposed that the mitochondrial sequence is of nuclear origin that had recently migrated to the organellar genome. Were this the case, there should be a greater homology between the nt sequence of TAAl, a wheat genomic sequence, and the wheat mitochondrial sequence. Instead, there was no significant homology even though the deduced TAAla protein did show a similar rate of homology to a discontiguously translated polypeptide ofthe mitochondrial sequence at the same region as MS2 (93/153 aa). Therefore, the conesponding mitochondrial sequence is more likely due to the biochemical convergence in evolution than a genealogical relationship. 
 This application provides convincing evidence that TAAl is an FAR. FAR converts fatty acyl coA to fatty alcohol (Kolattukudy, 1970; Kolattukudy and Rogers, 1986; Lardizabal et al., 2000; Metz et al., 2000). This is the first plant tapetum-specific gene which is enzymatically identified to be associated with lipid and wax biosynthesis. Pollen grains are coated with two layers of lipidic structures, i.e., the pollen outer wall (exine) and the pollen outmost coating (tryphine) that is overlaid on exine. Sporopollenin is the major constituent of exine and contains metabolites derived from long chain fatty acids and phenylpropanoids (reviewed by Scott, 1994). Although long chain fatty lipids seem to be definitely required for the synthesis of sporopollenin, how sporopollenin is polymerized and what precursors participate in the polymerization still remain unclear. In crucifer plants such as Arabidopsis and Brassica, the deposition of the exine takes place from the completion of meiosis 

II, through the tetrad and ring-vacuolate stages, to the time of the first pollen mitosis (Piffanelli et al., 1998). During this process, the tapetum is performing very active lipid biosynthesis (Piffanelli et al., 1998). So, it is logically assumed that the tapetum plays a major role in exine formation. Prior to this report, the only functionally characterized anther tapetum-specific gene was the Arabidopsis MS2 gene, whose expression pattern is concomitant with the formation of the pollen outer cell wall. Disruption of the MS2 gene with a transposon results in male sterility. Pollen development in the ms2 mutant shows most dramatic defect upon release from tetrads (Aarts et al., 1997). These pollens lack exine. Though the enzymatic nature of its encoded polypetide has yet to be identified, it shares 40% aa sequence identity with FAR. The present application includes evidence that TAAl has the MS2 expression pattern during formation of microspore exine and its encoded polypeptide has fatty alcohol forming capacity. Thus, as proposed by Scott (1994) and Aarts et al. (1997), fatty alcohols, the TAAl or MS2 enzymatic products are likely to be the precursors for sporopollenin polymerization. 
 The outmost layer of the pollen grain is the pollen coating or tryphine derived from two tapetum-specific lipid-rich organelles, elaioplasts and tapetosomes (Hernandez-Pinzόn et al., 1999; Piffanelli et al., 1998; Ting et al., 1998; Wu et al., 1997). The former is a plastid with triacylgycerol (TAG) and neutral esters, and the later is a lipid body containing neutral lipids including TAG and wax esters, and also oleosin-like proteins. The main functions of tryphine include pollen-stigma recognition and subsequent pollen hydration (Piffanelli et al., 1998). Analysis of tryphine lipid fractions shows that the tryphine lipids contain TAG, triterpene esters, sterol esters and very long-chain wax esters (Bianchi et al., 1990; Preuss et al., 1993). Of these compounds, long-chain lipids and linear waxes are thought to be essential for the functions of the pollen coating (Lemieux, 1996; Mariani and Wolters-Arts, 2000; Negruk et al., 1996; Preuss et al., 1993). This is in agreement with the previous observations that wax defective 

mutants such as the cerl, cer2, cer3, cerό, cer8 and cerlO mutants in Arabidopsis exhibit conditional male sterility (Hannoufa et al., 1993; Koornneef et al., 1989). Of these mutants, some have tryphine with smaller lipid droplets than wild-type pollen and some have tryphine without lipids. Recently, a complementation experiment of the cerf5 mutants by transgenically expressing the CER6 gene has shown that the two phenotypic effects, i.e. wax defection and male sterility cannot be rescued equally (Fiebig et al., 2000). CER6 is identical to CUT1 encoding an enzyme responsible for elongation of fatty acyl CoA, and silencing CUT1 induces waxless stem and male sterility (Millar et al., 1999). Interestingly, some fertility-restored lines (CER6 transformants) of the cerό mutnats still show wax-defective stem. Analysis on very long fatty lipids reveals that low amounts of long fatty lipids are sufficient for pollen hydration and germination, suggesting that this remarkable difference results from the different requirements for CER6 activity on stems and the pollen coating (Fiebig et al., 2000). Apart from the ingenious very long chain lipids, a class of exogenous TAGs which is absent in the pollen coating of Arabdopsis also can rescue the fertility of an Arabidopsis wax-defective mutant (Wolters-Arts et al., 1998). These findings raise a possibility that the tryphine function is dependent on the nature of the mixture of lipids including TAG, very long fatty acids and waxes in the tryphine. The composition of and the relative amounts of each species of the lipid pool rather than a single macromolecule determine a functional pollen coating. 
 Apart from their. presence in pollen lipidic structures (Bianchi et al., 1990), linear wax esters are also ubiquitously present in the plant cuticle (Piffanelli et al., 1998; Post-Beittenmiller, 1996), indicating plant encoded FAR genes have evolved divergent expression mechanisms. Indeed, an alcohol-forming FAR was previously purified from pea leaves (Vioque and Kolattukudy, 1997). Since the lipid composition of tryine is significantly different from that of the cuticle and even that of the intracellular contents of the pollen grains in the same plants (Bianchi et al., 1989; Bianchi et al., 1990; Piffanelli et al, 1997), there must be a 

mechanism by which the wax biosynthesis is spatially and temporally regulated. Searches of the Arabidopsis genome database identify 7 FAR-like hypothetical proteins excluding the MS2. It would be possible to investigate if these FAR-like genes contribute to divergent lipid biosynthesis in plants. Alternatively, isolation and characterization of more FAR genes will definitely assist in understanding this complicate regulation mechanism. 
 The present application provides convincing evidence that TAAl can reduce long chain acyl CoA to fatty alcohols. Fatty alcohols can be further esterified with fatty acids to generate linear wax esters. Transgenic plants that overexpress TAAl proteins via their natural (tapetum specific) promoters are predicted to have an increased consumption of fatty acyl CoA by TAAl in the tapetum, which in turn may impact upon lipid-related biosynthesis in the anthers. In this regard, alteration of the lipid composition in the tapetum by TAAl may be also required for the tryphine development to assure its recognition and hydration function. Conesponding effects upon lipid metabolism are predicted to occur if the TAAl protein is overexpressed in a plant organ other than the tapetum. For this reason, the -present invention encompasses DNA constructs, and the conesponding transgenic plants transformed with the constructs, wherein the over- or under- expression of TAAl -like proteins gives rise to altered lipid metabolism by virtue of an abnormal level of fatty acyl Co-A. Such modifications to lipid metabolism can have profound effects upon phenotype, developmental, reproductive, growth and structural characteristics of the plant. Moreover, the nature and impact of these effects are expected to depend upon the extent of TAAl expression, and the localisation of TAAl expression to specific plant organs. Both of these factors are regulated in part the strength and specificity ofthe promoter. 
 Specific embodiments ofthe present invention are illustrated by way ofthe following examples: 

Example 1 - The TAAl group of genes in wheat - identification and structural characteristics ofthe cDNA clones 
 RT-PCR experiments were conducted using an anther-specific cDNA library with primers specific for the rice PS1 gene (Zou et al., 1994). At a moderate annealing temperature of 43°C a 0.7-kb amplicon was obtained from mRNA isolated from anther but not from root, stem, leaf, glume and pilea tissues. DNA sequencing of the amplicon en masse gave an unambiguous result indicating that the PCR product was composed of a homogeneous sequence within the detection limits of sequencing reaction. Since this amplicon was specific to anther mRNA, a full- length cDNA clone encompassing the amplicon sequence was obtained by 5'- and 3'- RACE. On probing an anther cDNA library with the full-length cDNA, 12 clones were identified and these were grouped into three groups according to their restriction pattern (data not shown). The longest clones from each group were studied further. 5 '-RACE experiments did not produce further extensions, suggesting that the longest clones were full-length cDNA clones and hereafter referred as TAAla, TAAlb and TAAlc (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, and 5 respectively) . Both TAAla cDNA (GenBank accession number AJ459249) and TAAlc cDNA (GenBank accession number AJ459253) clones have a predicted open reading frame (ORF) of 1524 nucleotides (nt) encoding 507 amino acids (aa) but with different lengths of 5' UTRs (TAAla: 69 nt and TAAlc: 93 nt) (Figure la). The TAAlb cDNA (GenBank accession number AJ459251) ORF has a slightly larger ORF (1569 nt) encoding 522 amino acids and a 5' UTR of 73 nt. The putative polyadenylation signals, AATAA or TATAA, were found in the 3' UTR of all three TAAl cDNAs. Database analysis on the deduced aa sequences encoded by these three genes revealed that they all shared similarity to the fatty acyl- coenzymeA reductase (FAR) gene of jojoba (Metz et al., 2000) and the A. thaliana MS2 gene (Aarts et al., 1993) (see later re.: Figure 5). On further examination, the primers initially used contained at their 3' end a high level of 

identity to two portions of the cDNA clone encompassing the 0.7 kb cDNA fragment. 
 Example 2 - The TAAl group of genes in wheat — identification and structural characteristics ofthe genomic DNA clones 
 The genomic counterparts of the entire coding region of all three TAAl cDNAs were obtained by PCR amplification of the genomic DNA with primers based on the cDNAs. The genomic DNA sequences for TAAla, TAAlb, and TAAlc are shown in SEQ ID NOS. 7, 8, and 9 respectively. The TAAlα genomic DNA has been assigned Genbank accession number AJ459250, the TAAlb genomic DNA has been assigned GenBank accession number AJ459252, and the TAAlc genomic DNA has been assigned GenBank Accession number AJ459254 (genomic sequences submitted to GenBank include only the genomic DNA regions encompassing coding sequence). 
 Nucleotide sequence analysis of the amplicons showed 7 introns interrupting the coding regions in all three genes. The length and composition varied among the three genes. The most significant difference was in the length of the second intron (1758 nt in TAAlb, but only 113 in TAAlα and 112 in TAAlc). The position ofthe 4 th  intron in TAAlb also deviated substantially (Figure 1 a). 
 Example 3 - TAAl genes are likely to exist as single copy per haploid genome 
 Southern blot analysis of the wheats of different genetic constitution ~ namely, AABBDD, AABB, AA and DD- revealed that the TAAl genes are likely to exist as single copy per haploid genome. This interpretation was possible because of the choice of restriction enzymes that either did not cut within the coding sequence or cut only rarely and the use of the entire coding sequence of TAAla cDNA as the probe. Despite this probe coverage, only one hybridization band 

was observed in the diploids, two in the tetraploid and no more than 4 in the hexaploid (Figure 1 b). Assuming that introns of any paralogs would have caused a restriction polymorphism at this level, these results are consistent with a single copy gene per haploid genome equivalent. The presence of four bands in the hexaploid blot is due to restriction within a TAAl gene (data not shown). 
 Example 4 - TAAl expression is confined primarily to the anther tapetum and associated with microsporogenesis - molecular biology studies 
 The expression pattern of TAAl in wheat was determined by probing RNA blots with the 0.7 kb amplicon of TAAla. The TAAla probe strongly hybridized only to the anther mRNA, and did not show any hybridization with the root, stem, leaf, ovary or glume transcripts (Figure 2 a). For enhanced detection, RT-PCR of these RNA preparations was done with a primer pair designed to cover parts of two exons with an intron in-between so as to discriminate amplicons of mRNA (~ 0.4 kb) and genomic DNA origin (~ 0.8 kb). A strong band of - 0.4 kb was detected in the anther sample, and there was a weak signal in the stem but not in other samples (Figure 2 b). The identity of the amplicon was confirmed by nt sequencing. Thus, TAAl gene expression is specific to the anther tissue. 
 Example 5 - TAAl expression is confined primarily to the anther tapetum and associated with microsporogenesis - In situ hybridisation studies 
 In situ RNA hybridization of transverse sections of flowers at various stages of development with an antisense probe (Figure 3 c and d) showed expression in the tapetum but not in ovary, epidermis, connective tissues and the filament at various ages. With a sense probe, no significant signal was detected (Figure 3 a). Generally, wheat anther development follows seven stages (Saini, 1984; Dorion et al., 1996; Lalonde et al., 1997). These stages include pre-meiosis, meiosis, young microspore, vacuolated microspore (microspores inegularly shaped and in 

contact with the tapetum, and microspore wall and pore formation in progress), PGM1 (microspore nucleus divides to form vegetative and generative nuclei), PGM2 (tapetal cell walls break down), and mature pollen grain. The onset of TAAl transcription was not evident until the microspore separation occurred at a stage conesponding to the presence of a young microspore. From then on, TAAl mRNA was predominantly distributed in tapetum cells and to a lesser extent in some microspores (Figure 3 b and c). TAAl was strongly expressed at the vacuolated microspore stage when microspore cell walls were evident. The disappearance of TAAl transcripts coincided with tapetum degeneration (PGM2 stage). Thus, TAAl transcription is confined (with the exception of weak expression in stem) to anthers, and within anthers it is localized in the tapetum from the point of the formation of young microspores to the degeneration of the tapetum (PGM2 stage). 
 To further test whether the TAAl gene product is also dominantly localized in the tapetum, the TAAl specific poly-clonal antibodies were generated and used in in situ immunochemical analysis (Figure 4) of floral tissues. The results were consistent with RNA in situ hybridization, suggesting the TAAl protein was indeed produced in the tapetum as young microspores developed to the PGM2 stage. There was also evidence of its production, albeit at a much lower level, in microspore cells at this stage. Other floral tissues did not show any distinctive signals. Taken together these data indicate that the TAAl gene products are associated with microspore development. 
 Example 6 - The TAAl gene product shares homology with the jojoba seed- borne FAR and the Arabidopsis anther-specific MS2-encoded protein 
 Database analysis of TAAl was performed to search homologous genes and explore its potential function. While BLAST searches (conducted in accordance with Altschul et al., 1997) of GenBank with the ORF of TAAla, TAAlb and 

TAAlc did not identify any significant homologs, the deduced aa sequence (>84% similarity, >74% identity among the three TAAl peptide sequences) had homologs from A. thaliana (MS2 and MS2-like; Aarts et al., 1993), Brassica napus (B-MS2; Hodge et al., 1992) and Simmondsia chinensis (fatty acyl CoA reductase gene (FAR); Metz et al., 2000). TAAl gene products were found to be most similar to the jojoba (S. chinensis) FAR and the Arabidopsis putative MS2- like protein (61-65% similarity and 42-46% identity), and to a lesser extent to the MS2 and the Brassica MS2 (54-57% similarity and 35 to 39% identity). Notably, MS2 and its functional ortholog from B. napus (89% identical to MS2; Aarts et al., 1997) have an additional stretch of 117-aa at their amino-terminal region in comparison with TAAl, MS2-like and FAR. Of all these related gene products, only FAR has been biochemically characterized (Metz et al., 2000). Thus, even though the heat TAAl gene products share a developmental connotation with the Arabidopsis MS2 gene, TAAl bears a greater relationship to the characterized jojoba FAR (Figure 5 a and b). The latter is associated with accumulation of storage lipids in seeds and thus presumably inconsequential to anther development. The pair-wise alignment of the aa sequence of the TAAl a-encoded polypeptides to that of the jojoba FAR was carried out to explore conserved domains. There are two consensus regions containing more than 12 consecutive amino acids (Fig 5 a). Interestingly, these two regions are located at the two predicted transmembrane helices (Figure 5 a) (Metz et al., 2000). Further examination of the corresponding regions on the other related gene products revealed that the first putative transmembrane helix of FAR is globally conserved while the second one is not (data not shown). 
 Example 7 - Accumulation of fatty alcohols in the TAAl transgenic tobacco seeds, and influence of TAAl expression on plant phenotype 
 To initiate functional characterization of the TAAl gene in planta, the TAAla cDNA was cloned into a binary vector under the control of a napin promoter. The 

napin-TAAla chimeric gene was transformed into tobacco. Tobacco seeds contain 30-43% oil and are rich in fatty acids. The potential TAAl substrates, fatty acyl coA, are actively synthesized in the developing seeds (Frega et al., 1991). Total fatty alcohols were extracted from transgenic seeds. GC analysis on fatty alcohol contents and compositions showed that the TAA 1 -encoded enzyme significantly modified the pathway of fatty alcohol synthesis in the napin-TAAl transgenic seeds. The amounts ofthe five major fatty alcohols, i.e., C18:l, C20:l, C22:l, C24:l and C24:l increased by 8.75%-357.47%, 57.78%-426.8.95%, 130.96%-307.72%; 145.00%-361.49% and 99.89%-5929.47%, respectively (Figure 6 a). 
 Unexpectedly, the overexpression ofthe TAAla gene in tobacco under the control of a 35S promoter results in significant changes to the phenotype of the conesponding transgenic plants (Figure 7). In this regard, the modified transgenic plants are significantly smaller, with shorter internodes, and delayed flowering. The expression of fatty acyl Co-A reductase in these plants therefore gives rise to considerable developmental alterations in the plant. This provides evidence that changes in lipid metabolism via altered expression of TAAl genes can generate desirable changes to plant phenotype. Specifically, the reduction in internode length and reduction in overall size of the plants will render the plants less susceptible to wind damage. Moreover, the reduction in size of the plants may permit the generation of dwarf plant specifies for horticultural purposes, and plants with increased wind resistance. The delay in flowering may also be a desirable attribute for certain horticultural situations. 
 Example 8 - Accumulation of fatty alcohols from TAAl expression in E. coli 
 To further verify TAAl 's alcohol-forming ability, a bacterial expression system was employed. Previously this approach had been originally used to determine the enzymatic activity of the FAR isolated from jojoba (Metz et al., 2000). The 

neutral components from bacterial cells with the control plasmid or with the plasmid containing the coding region of the TAAla cDNA under the control of the 77 promoter were subjected to GC analysis. In the control bacterial cells, there was one major peak observed. The nature of this compound was not clear. In the bacterial cells expressing TAAla, two additional major peaks and one additional minor peak were detected (Figure 6 b). Detention times of these three peaks were found to be identical to those of three authentic fatty alcohol standards (C14, myristi alcohol; C16:0, hexadecyl alcohol; and C18:l, oleyl alcohol). The identity of the two major peaks (C16 and C18:l) was confinned by MS-GC while the C14 fatty alcohol was not due to its very low concentration. These results suggest that TAAl is a wheat FAR. 
 Example 9 - PROMOTER STUDIES - The wheat TAAlb promoter retains its spatial and temporal expression specificity in a distant monocot and also in a dicot 
 A 1.6-Kb genomic segment upstream of the predicted start codon of the TAAlb was isolated by genome walking (and given GenBank accession no: AJ488930). Particle-bombardment of daylily, a distant monocot in the phylogeny of wheat, with a construct containing GUS ORF immediately 3 ' to this fragment elaborated β glucuronidase, as shown by histochemical staining, only in the anther tapetum and microspores (Figure 8); none ofthe other parts such as leaves, stems, and the anther epidermis and connective tissues showed GUS expression. Furthermore, when anthers of various stages of development were bombarded, only those past the tetrad formation showed GUS expression, and this result was consistent with the observations in wheat. In contrast, a CaMV 35S-GUS construct gave expression in all tissues examined. Thus, the wheat promoter is likely to be useful to manipulate male gametophyte development in other important monocot crops. 

The wheat TAAl promoter was also found to be functional in the anthers of stably transformed tobacco (Figure 9). GUS expression was absent in other floral parts, roots and stems. In contrast, and as expected, the CaMV 35S-GUS plants showed expression in all these tissues, and an example of floral tissue is shown for comparison (Figure 9 d). While GUS activity was evident in the epidermis, connective tissues, the tapetum, microspores, and other tissues, the expression in the tapetum was not as strong as in the case ofthe TAAlb-GUS plant. Interestingly, the heterologous promoter maintained its developmental specificity in transgenic tobacco. GUS staining was not detectable in very young anthers at the time of tetrad formation (Figure 9 a). According to Koltunow et al. (1990), this would be flower buds <12 mm. In flower buds of 14 to 24 mm (Stages 2 to 6), GUS activity was detected in the tapetum, and in buds >15 mm (Stage 4), a strong GUS staining was also seen in microspores (Figure 9 b and c). Collectively, these results show cross-functionality of any cis elements ofthe TAAl promoter with trtms-acting factors in daylily and tobacco. 
 Experimental procedures 
 Plant materials, DNA and RNA isolation 
 Hexaploid spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Karma, genomic complement AABBDD), tetraploid wheat (Triticum turgidum L. cv. Sceptre, genomic complement AABB), and two diploid wheat species (Triticum urartu, ssp. Nigrum, genomic complement AA; Aegilops squarrosa, ssp. Tauschii, genomic complement DD) were grown in an open filed or in a greenhouse under standard conditions. Five-week-old seedlings were used for DNA isolation and for leaf, root and stem RNA isolation. Anther, ovary, glume and pilea tissues were collected 1-3 days prior to anthesis for RNA purification. DNA extraction was carried out following the published protocol (Wang et al., 1998). Total RNA was 

extracted using Trizol™ reagent (Life Technologies/Gibco-BRL, Burlington, Ontario) following the supplier's recommendations. 
 RT-PCR, 5 '- and 3 '-RACE, and other RNA and DNA technologies 
 The nucleotide acid-related enzymes used were from Life Technologies (Burlington, Canada) except otherwise stated. Five μg of total RNA derived from various tissues was used to synthesize the first strand cDNA by reverse transcriptase using primers OL2707 (5'GACTACGTCGTCCAAGGCCG3' - SEQ ID NO: 10) and OL2708 (5'GTCGAACTGCTTGAGCAG CGC3' - SEQ ID NO: 11). The PCR reactions were canied out with a Techne Genius DNA thermal cycler (Duxford, Cambridge, UK) under the following conditions: 94°C for 1 min, 43°C for 1 min, 72°C for 2 min, 35 cycles, followed by 10 min's incubation at 72°C. The amplified products were subjected to DNA sequencing. Based on obtained sequences, primers OL2881 
 (5'GCAGAACCTGACATACTTC3' - SEQ ID NO: 12) and OL2885 (5'GAGGCGGTACCT GAGCAT3' - SEQ ID NO: 13) were designed for RT- PCR detection and genomic DNA amplification. 
 Antisense primers OL2884 (5'TTCGCATAGCCGATCACG3' - SEQ ID NO: 14) and OL2883 (AATGCCGGCCCTGGTAAG3 ' - SEQ ID NO: 15) and sense primers OL2880 (5'CAGGTGGCCAAA CACATA SEQ ID NO: 16 and OL2881 (5'GCAGAACCTGACATACTTC - SEQ ID NO: 12) were designed for 5'- and 3 '-RACE which were conducted using 5' and 3' RACE kits (Life Technologies, Burlington, Ontario) following the manufacturer's protocol. The resulting cDNA fragments were either directly subjected to DNA sequencing or cloned into a T/A vector using the Original TA Cloning Kit™ (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) for sequencing. 

RNA and DNA gel blot analyses were performed essentially as described (Nair et al., 2000). The predicted coding region of TAAla was used as a probe. 
 cDNA library construction and screening 
 Wheat anther poly(A) +  RNA was isolated using an mRNA kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). Approximately 5 μg poly(A) +  RNA was used for cDNA library construction using a ZAP cDNA Gigapack III Gold Cloning Kit™ according to the supplier's instructions (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The ligated vector was packaged into phage particles using Gigapack III gold packaging extracts (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). A total of 2.2 x 10 primary pfu were obtained. Library screening was conducted using the 5 ' RACE PCR cDNA fragment as a probe to hybridize phage plaques containing approximately 250, 000 recombinant clones. The positive plaques were isolated and the phagemids were excised in vivo from the Uni-ZAP XR™ vector using the ExAssist/SOLR™ system (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The inserted cDNA sequences in the purified phagemids were determined by DNA sequencing. 
 Production of polyclonal antibodies against TAAl 
 The entire coding region of TAAla was directionally cloned in-frame into the BamHl-EcoRΪ sites of plasmid pRSET A (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, California) to make plasmid pTAA238. Fusion protein was expressed in E. coli strain BL21(DE3)pLysS (Invitrogen). The TAAl fusion protein was purified and injected into rabbits following the procedures (Wang et al., 1999). Polyclonal antibodies were harvested and purified as described (Wang et al., 1999). 
 In situ RNA hybridization and immuno-cytolocalization 

Plant materials were infiltrated overnight at 4°C in 4%> paraformaldehyde (PFA) with a lOOmM phosphate buffer pH 7.2. The fixed material were dehydrated in a graded ethanol series and then embedded in paraffin (Paraplast plus x-tra). 
 Sections were cut at 8 J m thickness and mounted on glass slides (Superfrost™ plus, Fisher Scientific, Nepean, Ontario). For in situ RNA hybridization, probes were prepared using MAXIscript ™ in vitro transcription kit and BrightStar™ P soralen-Biotin nonisotopic labeling kit (Ambion, Austin, Texas) according to manufacture's protocols. A DNA fragment of 550 bp of the TAAla cDNA starting from the predicted start codon was directionally cloned into pBluescript™ II KS +  phagemid vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) at the BamHl- Xhό sites to produce plasmid pTAA253. The antisense transcripts synthesized in vitro by T3 polymerase using ^b«I-linearlized plasmid pTAA253 as a template were used to detect the TAAl mRNA. The partial TAAl sense transcripts generated by T7 polymerase using plasmid .ATzoI-linearized plasmid pTAA253 as a template were served as a control. In situ hybridization was carried out essentially following the instructions ofthe mRNA locator-Hyb™ kit (Ambion). 
 For in situ immunological detection, slides mounted with fixed sections of wheat florets are incubated in the blocking solution containing 1 :1000 TAAla immune or pre-immune serum for overnight at 4 °C. Visualization of immuno-reaction was as described (Cho and Kende, 1998). 
 Vector construction and genetic transformation 
 Plasmid pRD400 (Datla et al., 1992) was modified by flipping-over the region containing the polylinker and the NPT II gene cassette to generate a binary transformation vector pAMW281. Two pieces of DNA fragments including a 2.4 kb fragment containing a CaMV 35S promoter and a uidA gene from plasmid pRD410 (Datla et al., 1992) digested with HindUL and Ec RI, and a 0.7 kb fragment containing a CaMV 35S terminator from plasmid pHS724 restricted 

with EcoRI and Kpnl (Huang et al., 2000) were co-ligated into the backbone of pAMW281 digested with HindUI and Kpnl to produce plasmid pAMW287. A 1.4 kb napin promoter obtained from digestion of plasmid pJOY43 with Hindϊϊi- BamΑl (Nair et al., 2000) and the 1.4 kb TAAla entire coding region resulting from plasmid pTAA238 restricted with Bamlϋl and EcoRI were co-ligated into the Hindlϊl-EcoRΪ sites of plasmid pAMW287. The resulting plasmid pAMW 458 consisted of the Napin promoter, the TAAla coding region and the 35S transcription terminator. 
 Agrobacterium-mediated transfonnation was employed for production of tobacco (Nicotiαnα tαbαcum cv Xanthi) transgenic plants using published protocols (Huang et al., 2000). The presence of foreign genes in independently derived kanamycin-resistant cell lines was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analyses, according to standard techniques. 
 Gas chromatography (GC) analysis 
 For plant .  GC analysis, mature seeds_were harvested from TAAl transgenic plants, non-transgenic wild-type control plants and control transgenic plants. Seed samples were ground and saponified with 10% potassium hydroxide dissolved in methanol with 1% water, incubated at 80 °C for 2 hours. The mixture was then extracted twice with hexane and subjected to GS analyses for total fatty alcohol and fatty acid contents and compositions as described by Katavic et al. (1995). Analysis was done on a 30 M DB-5 column starting at 250 °C to 300 °C at 5 °C/min. The identity of the fatty alcohol peaks was based on retention times of authentic fatty alcohol standards and confirmed by GC-MS. The relative amount of fatty alcohols was calculated on the basis of fresh weight of the seeds and normalized according to internal contents of β-sitosterol extracted in the same procedure. 

For E. coli GC analyses, 200 ml bacterial cells with appropriate plasmids were grown to OD value of 0.5 at 30 °C. After addition of IPTG (0.2mM), the culture was allowed to grow for 3 hr. The bacterial cells were harvested. Subsequent extraction and GC analysis were essentially as above. Qualification of fatty alcohols was based on flame ionization detector peak areas, which were converted to mass units by comparison with an internal standard which was added before the extraction. 
 TAAl promoter isolation and analysis 
 The upstream regulation region of TAAlb was isolated from the hexaploid spring wheat cultivar Karma (genetic complements: AABBDD) using a Universal GenomeWalker™ Kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). The resulting 1.7 kb DNA fragment was cloned into a T/A vector (Original TA Cloning Kit, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) for further analysis. 
 Plasmid pRD400 (Datla et al., 1992) was modified by flipping-over the region containing the polylinker and the NPT II gene cassette to generate a binary transformation vector pAMW281. Two pieces of DNA fragments including a 2.4 kb fragment containing a CaMV 35S promoter and a uidA gene from plasmid pRD410 (Datla et al., 1992) digested with Hindlϊl and EcoRI, and a 0.7 kb fragment containing a CaMV 35 S terminator from plasmid pHS724 restricted with EcoRI and Kpnl (Huang et al., 2000) were co-ligated into the backbone of pAMW281 digested with Hindlϊl and Kpnl to produce plasmid pAMW287, consisting of the 35S-GUS-PolyA cassette. Plasmid pAMW445 containing TAAlb promoter-GUS-PolyA was obtained by cloning the isolated 1.5 kb TAAlb promoter into the Hindlϊ -BamE.1 sites of plasmid pAMW287. Agrobacterium- mediated transformation was employed for production of tobacco (Nicotiαnα tαbαcum cv Xanthi) transgenic plants using published protocols (Huang et al., 2000). Presence of foreign genes in independently derived kanamycin-resistant cell lines was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analyses. 

For transient expression analysis, microprojectiles coated with 35S/GUS or TAAl promoter/GUS chimeric genes were bombarded into the transverse sections of flowers of a monocotyledonous plant species, daylily (Hemerocallis lilioasphodelus) essentially as described (Chen et al., 1998). 
 To analyze GUS expression in transgenic plants, the flower buds were collected from the primary transgenic tobacco plants (F 0 ). Anthers were cut transversely and incubated in a GUS-assay buffer (0.1 M phosphate buffer pH7.0, 2 mM K 3 [Fe(CN) 6 ], 2 mM K 4 [Fe(CN) 6 ], 1 mM EDTA. 0.1% Triton) with 1 mM X- Gluc (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-β-D-glucuronide) overnight at 37°C. After incubation, the anthers were observed under a microscope. Typical anthers were embedded in paraffin and then sectioned in 6 μm thickness for the further observation. The histochemical assay on the daylily flowers was performed 24 h post bombardment essentially as described (Wang et al., 1998). 
 Whilst the present invention has been described with particular reference to specific examples and techniques, the invention is not intended to be limited in this regard, and numerous peptide and nucleotide sequences, constructs, transformed organisms, methods, and products that are not directly described herein are intended to be encompassed within the scope ofthe present invention. 

 
 Sequence listing 
 SEQ ID NO:l (TAAla cDNA sequence) (Putative start and stop codons are in bold/underlined) 
 CTCCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCGCACGCACGCACGCACGCACACAAGAAAAAAATCAAGATGGTTGACAC ACTGAGTGAAGAGAACATCATTGGATACTTCAAGAACAAGAGCATCCTCATCACTGGATCAACAGGCTTTCTTGGAAAGA TACTGGTGGAGAAGATACTGAGAGTTCAACCTGATGTGAAGAAGATCTACCTCCCGGTGCGAGCGGTGGATGCCGCGGCG GCAAAGCATCGGGTGGAGACTGAGGTGGTAGGGAAGGAGTTGTTCGGGCTTCTGAGGGAGAAGCACGGGGGCAGGTTTCA ATCTTTCATCTGGGAAAAGATCGTCCCATTGGCCGGAGACGTGATGCGCGAGGACTTCGGCGTCGACAGCGAGACCCTGA GGGAGCTCCGGGTGACCCAGGAGCTCGATGTCATCGTTAATGGCGCCGCCACCACCAACTTCTACGAAAGGTATGATGTG GCTCTAGACGTGAACGTGATGGGAGTGAAGCATATGTGCAACTTCGCCAAGAAGTGCCCCAATCTCAAGGTGCTCCTCCA TGTCTCCACGGCTTACGTGGCGGGTGAGAAGCAAGGGCTGGTGCAAGAGAGACCATTCAAGAATGGCGAGACGCTGCTCG AGGGGACCCGCCTCGACATCGACACTGAGCTGAAACTGGCCAAGGACCTGAAAAAGCAGCTTGAGGCCGACGTTGATTCG TCGCCCAAGGCCGAAAGGAAGGCCATGAAGGATCTTGGCCTTACCAGGGCCCGGCACTTCAGGTGGCCAAACACATACGT GTTCACCAAGTCGATGGGGGAGATGGTGCTAAGCCAGTTGCAGTGTGATGTCCCCGTTGTCATCGTCCGTCCCAGCATCA TCACAAGTGTCCAGAACGACCCACTGCCCGGATGGATCGAAGGCACCAGGACGATCGACACGATCGTGATCGGCTATGCG AAGCAGAACCTGACATACTTCTTGGCCGACCTCAACCTCACCATGGATGTGATGCCGGGCGACATGGTGGTGAATGCGAT GATGGCGGCAATAGTGGCACACAGCTCGTCCTCATTGGAGAAGACAAAGTCACATCCCAAGCAACATGCACCGGCGGTGT ACCACGTGAGCTCGTCGCTGCGTAATCCGGCACCATACAATGTGCTTCATGAGGCTGGGTTTCGGTACTTCACGGAGCAC CCTCGCGTGGGCCCTGACGGTCGCACCGTGCGTACCCATAAGATGACATTCCTCAGCAGCATGGCTTCCTTCCACCTATT TATGATGCTCAGGTACCGCCTCCTCCTCGAGCTCCTCCACCTGCTCTCCATCCTCTGCTGCGGCCTCTTCGGCCTCGACA CCCTCTACCACGACCAAGCACGCAAGTACAGGTTCGTGATGCACCTGGTGGATCTGTACGGGCCCTTTGCGCTGTTCAAG GGGTGCTTCGATGACGTCAACCTAAACAAGCTCAGGCTCGCCATGACCAGCAACCATGGTAGCCTCTTCAATTTCGACCC GAAGACCATTGATTGGGACGAGTACTTCTACAGGGTCCACATCCCCGGGGTCATAAAGTACATGCTCAAGTGAAATATCC GTGCACCGAAATTCAGGCGTTGCCTTAATAATTAAATAATCGTACGATTGTAAGAAATGTCCTCCCAAATTGGGTTCTAA CCGTTAAATAATCTATATGAAAGAGGAAAATGTGTCTGTCGCTTGATAGAGCAGGCATCAACGTTGCATAAGTTTCTTGA AGACAAGGAATGCTACATTATGTAGTCCCATTCTGGTTCATGTATTGTATTGCTAATTATGACTAGTATTGATTGTTGTT ACCAAGCCGAATTCCAGCACACTGGCGGCCGTTACTAGTGGATCCGAGCTCGGTACCAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 

 
 SEQ ID NO:3 (TAAlb cDNA sequence) 
 (Putative start and stop codons are in bold/underlined) 
 CTCTCTTCTTCCTCCGTCTCTCATTCTCTCCTCCCGAGCTTCATAGCTCACACGCACACAAAACCAAGGCAAGATGGTGG GCACGCTGGATGAGGGGAAGATCGTCGACTACTTCAGGAACAAGAGCGTGCTCATCACCGGAGCCACGGGATTCCTTGGC AAGATAATGGTGGAGAAGATCCTGCGGGTCCAGCCGGACGTGAAGAGGATCTACCTGCCGGTGCGGGCGGCCGACGCCGC GGCGGCGAGGCGCCGGGTGGAGACCGAGGTGGTGGGGAAGGAGCTGTTCTGCGTGCTGCGGGAGCGCCACGGCGCCGGGT TCGACGCCTTCGTCGCCGACAAGGTGGTGGGGCTGGCCGGCGACGTCATGCGCGAGGGCTTCGGCGTCGACCCCGCCACG CTGCGGGACCTCCGGCTCGCCGACGAGCTCAACGTCATCGTCAACGGCGCCGCCACCACCAACTTCTACGAAAGGTACGA CGTGGCCCTGGACGTGAACGTGGTGGGGGTGAAGCACATGTGCGACTTCGCCCGGAGGTGCCCCAACCTCGAGGTGCTCA TGCACGTCTCCACGGCCTACGTCGCCGGCGAGAAGCAGGGGCTGGTTCCGGAGAGGCCGTTCAGGGACGGCGAGACGCTG CGCGACGACGGCACCCAACTCGACATCGACGCCGAGATGAGGCTGGCCAAGGACCTCAGGAAGCAGATGGAGGCCGACGA CGATGTGGACCCCAAGGCCCAGAGGAAGGCCATGAAGGACCTCGGCCTCACCAGGGCCAGGCACTTTGGGTGGCCCAACA CGTACGTGTTCACCAAATCCATGGGGGAGATGATGCTGGCCCAGATGATGCGCGGGGGCGACGTGCCCGTCGTCATCGTC CGGCCCAGCATCATCACCAGCGTCCAGAACGACCCACTGCCAGGATGGATCGAAGGCACCAGGACGATCGACGCAATCCT GATCGGGTACGCGAAGCAGAGCCTGTCGTGCTTCCTCGCCGACCTCGACCTAACCATGGACGTGATGCCCGGCGACATGG TGGTGAACGCGATGATGGCGGCCACGGTGGCACATGCCTCCTCCACTCAGACATCAGAGCCAGAGAAGAAGCCGCCTCCG CAGCAGCAACACCCTCACTCGGTGCCGGCAGCGCCAACGGTGTACCACGTGAGCTCGTCGCTGCGGCACCCGGCTCCGTA CGCGGTGTTGTACCGAACGGGGATCCGGTACTTCGAGGAGCACCCACGGGTGGGGCCTGATGGCCGCCCCGTGCGCACCC GTAAGGTGCGGTTCCTCGGCAGCATCGCGGCGTTCCACCTATTCATGGTGCTCAAGTACCGTGTCCCCCTTGAACTCCTC CGCCTGCTCTCCATCCTCTGTTGCGGCCTCTTTGGCCTTGCCGCCCTCTACCACGACCTCGCCCGCAAGTACAGGTTCGT GATGCAGCTGGTGGACCTGTACGGGCCCTTCTCGCTCTTCAAGGGTTGCTTCGACGATGTAAACCTCAACAAGCTCAGGC TCGCCATGGCCGACGGTGACCATGCCGATTCCGCATTCAACTTTGACCCCAAGACCATTGACTGGGACGACTACTTCTTC AAGGTCCACATCCCTGGTGTCATGAAGTACGTCCACAAGTGATGTTCTGTGTGCGATCTGCTTCTGCGTGCTGAGAAGGA ATGGAGGAAATCAAATTAATGGTAGCGCTAGTGTGCCTTGCTTGTGTTGTGTAACCTCCTTCTTCGTTCATCGAGTATTA TTGGTTGAGTATTGATTGTATTGTCATTGGAAGTTAAATTAACCAGTGACTATGAGTATAACTAAGATGAAATTACTTGC ATCATGGCGGGTCTCTAAAACTAAGATAGTACAAGGATCCTATGAAGTACATTGAAATTACTTAGTACTTTTCATGGTAC TATCATAATACAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 

 
 SEQ ID NO:5 (TAAlc cDNA sequence) 
 (Putative start and stop codons are in bold/underlined) 
 CTCCTTCTTCCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCCCTGCTCTCCCTGCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTTGCGCACACAAG AAAAAAAATCAAGATGGTTGACACACTGAGTGAAGAGAAGATCATTGGATACTTCAAGAACAAGAGCATCCTCATCACTG GATCAACAGGCTTTCTTGGAAAGATACTAGTGGAGAAGATACTGAGAGTTCAACCTGATGTAAAGAAGATCTATCTCCCG GTGCGAGCGGTGGATGCCGCGGCGGCGAAGGATCGGGTGGAGACTGAGGTGGTAGGGAAGGAGTTGTTCGGGCTTCTGAG GGAGAAGCACGGGGACTGGTTTCAATCTTTCATCTGTGAAAAGATCGTCCCATTGGCCGGAGATGTGATGCGTGAGGACT TTGGCGTCGACAGCGAGACCCTGAGGGAGCTCCGGGTGACCCAGGAGCTCGATGTCATCGTTAATGGCGCCGCCACCACC AACTTCTACGAAAGGTATGATGTGGCCCTGGACGTGAACGTGATGGGAGTGAAGCATATGTGCAACTTCGCCAAGAAGTG CCCCAATCTCAAGGTGCTCCTCCATGTCTCCACGGCTTATGTTGCGGGTGAGAAGCAAGGACTCGTGCAAGAGAGACCAT TCAAGAATGGCGAGACGCTGCTCGAGGGGACCCACCTCGATATCGACACCGAGCTGAAACTGGCCAAGGACCTGAAAAAG CAGCTTGAGGCCGACGCCGACTCGTCGCCCAAGTCCCAAAGGAAGGCCATGAAGGACCTTGGCATCACCAGGGCCCGGCA CTTCGGGTGGCCGAACACATACGTGTTCACCAAGTCGATGGGGGAGATGGTGCTGGGCCAGTTGAAGTGTGATCTCCCTG TTGTCATCGTCCGTCCCAGCATCATCACCAGTGTCCAGAACGACCCACTGCCCGGATGGATCGAAGGCACCAGGACGATC GACACGATCGTGATCGGCTATGCGAAGCAGAACCTGACATACTTCTTGGCGGACCTCAACCTCACCATGGATGTGATGCC GGGCGACATGGTGGTGAATGCGATGATGGCTGCCATCGTGGCGCACAGCTCGTCCTTATTGGAGAAGACACAGTCACATC CCGAGCCACACGCACCGGCGGTGTACCACGTGAGCTCGTCGCGGCGTAACCCGGCGCCGTACAATGTGCTGCACGAGGCT GGGTTTCGGTACTTCACGGAGCACCCTCGGGTGGGCCCTGACGGCCGCACGGTGCGCACCCATAAGATGACATTCCTCAG CAGCATGGCTTCCTTCCACCTCTTTATGATGCTCAGGTACCGCCTCCTCCTTGAGCTCCTCCACCTGCTCTCCGTCCTCT GTTGTGGCCTCTTCGGCCTCGACACCCTCTACCACGACCAAGCACGCAAGTACAGGTTCGTGATGCACCTGGTGGATCTG TATGGGCCCTTCGCGCTGTTCAAGGGCTGCTTCGATGACGTCAACCTAAACAAGCTCAGGCTCGCCATGACCAGCAACCA TGGAAGCCTCTTTAATTTCGACCCCAAGACCATTGACTGGGACGATTACTTCTACAGCGTCCACATCCCCGGGGTCCTAA AGCACATGCTCAACTGAAATATCCATGCACCGAAAATTTAGGCGTTGCCTTAATAATTAAATAATCGTACGTTGTAAGAA ATATCCTCCCAAATTGGGTTCTAACCGTTAAATAATCTGTGTGAAAGAGGGAAATGTGTCTGTCGCTTGATAGTGCAGGC ATCAACTTGCATATGCTTCTTGAAGAACAAGGAATGCTACATCATGTAGTTTCGTTCTGGCTCGTGCTGTATTGCCAATT ATGACTAGTATTGGTTGATAACAATTTCTTGTTCAGTCACATATTGTACCTTGACTAGTATTGATTGTTAATTATAATTT CTTTTCAAGAGAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 

 
 SEQ ID NO: 7 (TAAla genomic sequence) 
 (introns are underlined, transcription start site and start and stop codons are indicated in bold/underlined) 
 CCTCTTTAAGTCGGTCAGGTACGTAGCAAATAAACCAAACAAGCAGGACATGTTTGAAAATCACTGTTCTAACTTTAATA ATGCACACAAGGAATTGAAGGCTTGATAAATCCTGTGCTAGTACCACCCATCCGACTGTCGGTTTTTAAGACATGGTAGA GTAGAGTACTAACATAACGATCTTCAAGATATTGTGTCCAAGTTCTTTGCCACAGGTTTGTCGTATTGAGCCAAAATATA CCACTGAATTATGTGCTAATAGTGTAATTATTGGTCAATTTTTTGTTCTAACGAGAGAAAAATACGCTATGCGTTTTGAA GGGATGGAGTACGATGATACTACTCTATTGTACTCCACGGATCAATTGTAGGAGTACCCTCTAATTTCTAATGGTATAAC TTTGATGACATACGATTTGTATTACGTTGGTTGAATTGTACATGGGCCTTCTATAAAGCGAAAAAGAAAGGAATACTGAG CTTCTCTAGTTTTCTATAAMCCAGAGTTAGACGTCCTACTGGACAACTCATTCCTAAGTGTGTAGCAATAATACTGAGTA CTACCGGTTGTCCACTTGAGCTATTAATTTGATGGCTAGCAACGTACTGCAACCCCAATAATAACCCTGTTTGAAAATCT AGAGTACCTCTACGCGTTATTTTGACTGCATGTGATTCCTCTCATGATCACCAGGTCCCTTGKTTTGGGTTGGACAGCGC ATAAATGTTGCGCTCAAGTGCCTCAAATTAAGACTCCCCTCTCCTACCTACAACACAAAAGACCTTTTTTTCAGCAAAAG AGGGCGCCACCCCCTCCGATTTCATATAATGAAACCAACTGGTTCAACTGCCAAACAAACAACAAAAACAAAACGAAACA CCTTCATGGCCCGTGTATAAATATTGTGTACATGACCCTCTTTCCACTCACCCACACAAATCATCTCCTCTCTCTCTCTC TCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCGCACGCACGCACGCACGCACACAAGAAAAAAATCAAGATGGTTGACACACTGAGTGAAGAGAAC ATCATTGGATACTTCAAGAACAAGAGCATCCTCATCACTGGATCAACAGGCTTTCTTGGAAAGAGTATGCATGCATGCAT AATGTTTATGCACACATATTACGCATGCATATACTTTTTTTTGGCAAATTCTAGAAGTTTTTTGCGTCAAGTTCATATGT GCTGTCCTCATCTGTTAATTAGTTCACTGTTGGTGTGCGTATATGCAGTACTGGTGGAGAAGATACTGAGAGTTCAACCT GATGTGAAGAAGATCTACCTCCCGGTGCGAGCGGTGGATGCCGCGGCGGCAAAGCATCGGGTGGAGACTGAGGTAGTGTT GTCCATCATGGTTCTTCATGATCTATACCCTTTACCCCTCTCATGATTCTTTTGATCCCTTTTCTTCAGAGTTAGCGCTG ACTAATTTCTTTTCTATATGCGCAGGTGGTAGGGAAGGAGTTGTTCGGGCTTCTGAGGGAGAAGCACGGGGGCAGGTTTC AATCTTTCATCTGGGAAAAGATCGTCCCATTGGCCGGAGACGTGATGCGCGAGGACTTCGGCGTCGACAGCGAGACCCTG AGGGAGCTCCGGGTGACCCAGGAGCTCGATGTCATCGTTAATGGCGCCGCCACCACCAACTTCTACGAAAGGTGCGTCAT TGTCAACTGATTGTTTTGTCCAAGAAAGGAAAAATCAGCAGAGAACTTGAGTAGGTGCAGCAAGAGTACGTACGCAGTGA ATGGTCTCAGAAGAACACTTGTGTGCGTGCAGGTATGATGTGGCTCTAGACGTGAACGTGATGGGAGTGAAGCATATGTG CAACTTCGCCAAGAAGTGCCCCAATCTCAAGGTGCTCCTCCATGTCTCCACGGGTACGTACACCAACTCTACAGGTAAAA ACAAAAATAAAGTTCTTGGATGTTAATTATAATACACCTAGATTTGATTTACAAATGAAGTTAATAAATTCATATATGAG TTGGTGCAGCTTACGTGGCGGGTGAGAAGCAAGGGCTGGTGCAAGAGAGACCATTCAAGAATGGCGAGACGCTGCTCGAG GGGACCCGCCTCGACATCGACACTGAGCTGAAACTGGCCAAGGACCTGAAAAAGCAGCTTGAGGCCGACGTTGATTCGTC GCCCAAGGCCGAAAGGAAGGCCATGAAGGATCTTGGCCTTACCAGGGCCCGGCACTTCAGGTGGCCAAACACATACGTGT TCACCAAGTCGATGGGGGAGATGGTGCTAAGCCAGTTGCAGTGTGATGTCCCCGTTGTCATCGTCCGTCCCAGCATCATC ACAAGTGTCCAGAACGACCCACTGCCCGGATGGATCGAAGGCACCAGGTTCATTATATGTTTCTTGTCCTTTCTCTGCCT CCAAATTTAGAGTGCAATCGTCTTACTCTGTTGCAAATGCCAAAAGAAGTAAAATATGATATTTGTTCAATGTAAAAATG TAAATTGCAGGACGATCGACACGATCGTGATCGGCTATGCGAAGCAGAACCTGACATACTTCTTGGCCGACCTCAACCTC ACCATGGATGTGGTAAGCAACGTTGTACTATGCATGCAGTTAAGATATATTCCAGGCAATGGTTGGTTGTCAGTCCAGTC CAGGAATCCGTACAGTAAGATGAATTTCGACGACGATGGTGAAAGCAATCGTTTGGTTGGGTATATGTTGCTGTAGATGC CGGGCGACATGGTGGTGAATGCGATGATGGCGGCAATAGTGGCACACAGCTCGTCCTCATTGGAGAAGACAAAGTCACAT CCCAAGCAACATGCACCGGCGGTGTACCACGTGAGCTCGTCGCTGCGTAATCCGGCACCATACAATGTGCTTCATGAGGC TGGGTTTCGGTACTTCACGGAGCACCCTCGCGTGGGCCCTGACGGTCGCACCGTGCGTACCCATAAGATGACATTCCTCA GCAGCATGGCTTCCTTCCACCTATTTATGATGCTCAGGTACCGCCTCCTCCTCGAGCTCCTCCACCTGCTCTCCATCCTC TGCTGCGGCCTCTTCGGCCTCGACACCCTCTACCACGACCAAGCACGCAAGTACAGGTTAGTTAGTTGGTTGAAATCTTG TGCGGTTGTATCTTCTTGATGGCTCCCACATAATTAAGATGACACGACTTTTATTGTTGTATTGTTATAGGTTCGTGATG CACCTGGTGGATCTGTACGGGCCCTTTGCGCTGTTCAAGGGGTGCTTCGATGACGTCAACCTAAACAAGCTCAGGCTCGC CATGACCAGCAACCATGGTAGCCTCTTCAATTTCGACCCGAAGACCATTGATTGGGACGAGTACTTCTACAGGGTCCACA TCCCCGGGGTCATAAAGTACATGCTCAAGTGA 

 
 SEQ ID NO: 8 (TAAlb genomic sequence) 
 (introns are underlined, transcription start site and start and stop codons are indicated in bold/underlined) 
 (the region for promoter analysis is italicized) 
 CTGACCAAACATCTCCCATCAGGAACCATGTTACTATTTAATTTTGCATGTTCTTTGCTTCGTGCTGTTTGTCAAGGACA CGCTAGCTTCTGCATTATACAGACAGGCTGGAAATCTGTAAATAATGTGTTGGTGAATCTTTGGAGTATTTTTCTAATGT TGATCAGTACTTGTTGACCTAGGTGGCGACTAACTTTGGACAGGGGCAAGCAAGCAAAAGCAGAGACAGCTAGCTTCTGC ATTATCAGAAAATAGCCTGTGTTGGTGAATCTTCAGAGTGCTCCTACTCCCCCGTCCCCCCAAATGTTCAGTACTTGTTG ACCTACTGGAGCTGGACGACCCGCTCTGAAAGTTTTACTTGTCCACACTTGTCTGGCCAAAATCCCCAATGAATCAGAAT ATAGGCTGAAAAATGAGTGGGTCGTTTTTGGAGCTCGGCCTCCACGGAGGCCGAAAAAAAACTCAAAATTCTAATTTCTC AGTTTAAAAAAAAATGAAAAAAATTGTACAAGTAAACAAGGTTGTGATGTGTATGTGTGTAAAATTTCAGAACAAAATAC TTTGAAATGCGATCTGAGCAAAAAAAAACAAATTCATAGACTTTTGAGAATGAATAGTGCAAGCTACTAAAACGCATGAG ATTCTTTTTGCGTGTAGCACTCATTTTAATGTATTTCGTCCTGAAAATTACAAACTTGTGCATTATGTCTATAAGTATAT GGTGGATTTAAAAAAAAACTGAAACATGCAAATTTGAATTTTGATCATTTCAAAATCGGCCTCCATGGAGCATTTTTGCT GAAAAATCTAAAAGAAAACGCAGTCCAACCTTAGTAATTACCCATGTTGGTGAATCCAGAGTGTTTACGATAAATATAGG ACCTCTTTAGCTAGCGAACGATGGCATTTGCGAATGTTATTTATGGCAAATCCTTCAGAACACACATGCCAATTTCTTCA TAAACACATGGCAATTCTGGCAAATATTTTGCTGTGAAAATTGTTGTGCTTGCTTCAAGGAATTGCCATGTTCCCGCAAT ATAAAATGCCΑTGAAAAACGTTCATTTTGTCATATCCCCAGCGAACGTCCGCCGAGTAGCATTACCGTAAATATAGGGGG TGTTTGGTTCAGAAGTTCTAGGACTTTTTCTAGTCCCAGGGACTAATCAAAAAAGACTCTCTAATAGAGTCTTTTTCTAG TCCCTATAGAAAAAGTCCCTCCCGTTTGGTTCCTAGGGACTTTTTTTAGTCTCTAGGACTAAAAAGTCCCTGAACCAAAC ACCCCATATTAGTAGTACCGCAAAAAGTAGTAAGTACTACAGTATTGGTGGATCTTTAATGAGTTAATTAACCTAGAATG GCTCCTGCTCCTCCGGTTTCACTGGAAAAGCAGGTTGTGGTTGGGAAGCACAAGCGTGTTGCCGTTGCTAATTACGTGCA CTCAATAGCCAGCCAGCCACCCTCAACACCTCGCTGGCCGGCCCTGCGCGTGTATAAATACTGGGTGCCGGAGCACACAA GCCTCACACACCAAGCACACCTCTCTTCTTCCTCCGTCTCTCATTCTCTCCTCCCGAGCTTCATAGCTCACACGCACACA AflACCAflGGCAAGATGGTGGGCACGCTGGATGAGGGGAAGATCGTCGACTACTTCAGGAACAAGAGCGTGCTCATCACCG GAGCCACGGGATTCCTTGGCAAGAGTAAGTGAGCATGATGAGGATATATCATATATGCATGCCTTGCTATTTTCTGAAGA ACAGTTCATGCATCCATGCTGAGAGTCCTTGGTGTTGCATTGTGTGCTCACTCTTCGACCTGTGCAGTAATGGTGGAGAA GATCCTGCGGGTCCAGCCGGACGTGAAGAGGATCTACCTGCCGGTGCGGGCGGCCGACGCCGCGGCGGCGAGGCGCCGGG TGGAGACCGAGGTGCGTGCCTCTCTGCCCGTCCATCATGCTCCAGCATGATGGTGATCCTTGCACCCCCTCCATCAATCT CGCTCTGAACACTCCTCTGTTCTAGAGTAATACTAGTAGTAGACAAAGGATGCATGCCGGCAGCATGGTTCTCATGCTGC AAGGAACACATGCGAGCTTTCTCTCAGACAGAGAAGCCCCCAAGCTGCTCCCACTGTGCCCCTTGTGTCTCTTCATTCCG TTTCATATTCACTACTCTTTTTTTCATTGATAATCAATACTGTAATACTAGTAATATTATGTGGCGCATCGGAACAAAAC ATGCATAGATATCACAGAACCATAAATAGTCCAGCTGCCCGCTGCTATATCAGTGATGCAAACATGAACATGGGTAGAAT AGTTATCTTATAGGCATAAACCGGCATTAGTCAGGACTAGGTGCACACTGTTGAGTCTCATCCCTGCCGAACATTCAGGC AGGTCACATGCCATTTTTTCTTCTCTTTCTGAGGTTGAGAGTCACATGCCATACTCTGCATGAGAGGTGGCCATGAATAA TCTCAGCTGTACACCGCTCATTCTTCTCTACTACTCCCTCCGTTCCTAAATATGTCTTTTTAAAGATTCCAACAAGTGAC TACATACAGAATAAAATGAATGAATCTATATTCTAAAATATGTCTACATACATCCATATGTTATAGTCCATTTAAAATGT CTAAAAAAACTTATATTTAGGAACGGAGGGAGTAGATACTAGTTAAATGCACAAATATTCTGCCAGCTTTTGGTATGCCA GGATTAATTTGAACGAGAAACCAGATACTAGTAGGCGTATGGTTGACGAAATTTTCAACATTTTCATTTACGCCCGATCC TGGAAACCGGGAACCTTGGGAAAACCGGCCGCAGGATGACAATTAAACCGGCGGCGAAGTAGCGCAGCTGTGTGTGTATC CCTAGGAGTCGTATAGGAGTTATGGTGTGGGTAGGCCGGTAGGTTTGGTCAGGTCGACTCGATTCACAAGTTTTCAATGG CCTCTGCCGCATGCAGTGCACAACTGGTACTGCACCACCACCTAGCTAGCTAGCCGGCCAGTGTGCAGCCTGCATGCATG CATGCATGCATGGCTGGCTGGCTGCTGCTGGGAAATGACGAGCGCAGGGCACCATCTGGCACTGGCACCGGCACCACTAA CTACAGCTTCATCAACTTGAGAATTCAGAACCCAGAGTTTCTTGTCATATGTGTATAGAGTGGACCGCAAGTCTGCAATG ATGTGTTGGTACCTGATTGCATCAACAATGAACACATATAACTGCAATTATGTTTTGGTTAGTAGATTCTAGTATATTGC AAAAGAAAAAAAGTGTAGTTATTGAGTGGTGCCAAGGAGATCCAGAGCAGAGACAATGGGCAGTATGCTTGGTCCTCCAC CCTACTCCTACTCCATCTAGTAAAAGCCGGGAAAGAAACCCTTCCAGCACGCCTGGCCCCTCTTCATTTCTTCATATGCA TTCACTGATCCTTCATTGTTCGGCATGGGCAATTTACAGCTGCAGACAGTTGCACGGGTCGGTTGTCGTGCGCTGCAGAA GCAATTTATAGTTTTTACCAAAAGTTGCCTGAGACACTCACCATGTTGGGTGGTGGATCCACAGTGCGTGCATGCATGTA TCAAACGCACATTGCAGGTTAAGAATTGGTGTAAATCAAGCACGTCTATTGATCAAACTAATTTTATCGAGACCGGCGTG GTTCGCAGGTGGTGGGGAAGGAGCTGTTCTGCGTGCTGCGGGAGCGCCACGGCGCCGGGTTCGACGCCTTCGTCGCCGAC AAGGTGGTGGGGCTGGCCGGCGACGTCATGCGCGAGGGCTTCGGCGTCGACCCCGCCACGCTGCGGGACCTCCGGCTCGC CGACGAGCTCAACGTCATCGTCAACGGCGCCGCCACCACCAACTTCTACGAAAGGTGCTGTGTACTATTGACTGTTTTAA TTAACTTCGTCAGAGAGAAAATTCAGCGGGAGAGAACGTGCATGGCTGCACCTTCTTCTCCAGAGTAGTGAGCTCATCAA TGGCCTCTGCAACTAACTTTGGAATGGACGTGTGCGTGCTCAGGTACGACGTGGCCCTGGACGTGAACGTGGTGGGGGTG AAGCACATGTGCGACTTCGCCCGGAGGTGCCCCAACCTCGAGGTGCTCATGCACGTCTCCACGGCCTACGTCGCCGGCGA GAAGCAGGGGCTGGTTCCGGAGAGGCCGTTCAGGGACGGCGAGACGCTGCGCGACGACGGCACCCAACTCGACATCGACG CCGAGATGAGGCTGGCCAAGGACCTCAGGAAGCAGATGGAGGCCGACGACGATGTGGACCCCAAGGCCCAGAGGAAGGCC ATGAAGGACCTCGGCCTCACCAGGTTAGCAATCCTATATTTTTCCAAAGTTTCTCCTCTTTCCTGTGAAATTCAAGTTCA AAAAACAGAGGGTTTTATTTTGTGAAACTTGGAACTGAAATTCAATATATTTTTTTGTAATTGTGTGTGCAGGGCCAGGC ACTTTGGGTGGCCCAACACGTACGTGTTCACCAAATCCATGGGGGAGATGATGCTGGCCCAGATGATGCGCGGGGGCGAC GTGCCCGTCGTCATCGTCCGGCCCAGCATCATCACCAGCGTCCAGAACGACCCACTGCCAGGATGGATCGAAGGCACCAG GTCGGTTCAAACTCTTTGGGTCTAAATATGAATGCCAAGTTTCAAATTCAAATTCTAACACCGAAATGAAAAATGCAGGA CGATCGACGCAATCCTGATCGGGTACGCGAAGCAGAGCCTGTCGTGCTTCCTCGCCGACCTCGACCTAACCATGGACGTG GTAATTGCTTCACTCGTTATTAGTTCAGCAAATGCAGAGCTGCTAGTGCTACTGTCTTCTTGCGAACGTGCTGCAGTAAT GAGTAATAAGTATACTAGTACAGTGTGTGACCATGCTGCAGTAAGTTGCATCTGAAGCGTCTGTGCCAACCAGGCCAAGT GGCTGCTGCAGTGCATCAGCCAACCTTAGATGAACTTGGCTGCGTGCGGTTACTATCTGAATCTTGCCTGTTACAGCAAG GTTACATATGCTGCTACTGGATTATCAAGTTCTAACCCAAATGCGCTACCATGGTGTCTGCAGATGCCCGGCGACATGGT GGTGAACGCGATGATGGCGGCCACGGTGGCACATGCCTCCTCCACTCAGACATCAGAGCCAGAGAAGAAGCCGCCTCCGC AGCAGCAACACCCTCACTCGGTGCCGGCAGCGCCAACGGTGTACCACGTGAGCTCGTCGCTGCGGCACCCGGCTCCGTAC GCGGTGTTGTACCGAACGGGGATCCGGTACTTCGAGGAGCACCCACGGGTGGGGCCTGATGGCCGCCCCGTGCGCACCCG TAAGGTGCGGTTCCTCGGCAGCATCGCGGCGTTCCACCTATTCATGGTGCTCAAGTACCGTGTCCCCCTTGAACTCCTCC GCCTGCTCTCCATCCTCTGTTGCGGCCTCTTTGGCCTTGCCGCCCTCTACCACGACCTCGCCCGCAAGTACAGGTACATT CTTCTTCCGGAATTAGTTGACGCTCAAACGAATTATCTAGAGGGAGCACAGTTTAAACACTTTTGCGGTTGTACCGTGTT GATGTTATACCATTGGCTTAAGAACATGCATTTTGTGTAGGTTCGTGATGCAGCTGGTGGACCTGTACGGGCCCTTCTCG 

CTCTTCAAGGGTTGCTTCGACGATGTAAACCTCAACAAGCTCAGGCTCGCCATGGCCGACGGTGACCATGCCGATTCCGC ATTCAACTTTGACCCCAAGACCATTGACTGGGACGACTACTTCTTCAAGGTCCACATCCCTGGTGTCATGAAGTACGTCC ACAAGTGA 

 
 SEQ ID NO: 9 (TAAlc genomic sequence) 
 (introns are underlined, transcription start site and start and stop codons are indicated in bold/underlined) ACTCCGACACAATATTTTGACTGCATGTGATTCCTCTTATGATCACTGAGTCTTTGTTTCGGTTGGACAGCGCATAAATG TTGCGCTCAAGTGCCTCAAATTAAGACACCCCTCTTCTACCTACAACACGAAAGACCCTTTTTTCTTAGCAAAAATTTCA TACAATGAAACCAACTGGTTCAACTGCCAAAACAACAGACTCCAAGACAAAACACCTTGATGGCCCGTGTATAAATATTG TGTACAGGAGCCTCTTTCCACTCACCTACACAAATCATCTCCTTCTTCCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCCCTGCTCTCCCTGCT CTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTTGCGCACACAAGAAAAAAAATCAAGA GGTTGACACACTGAGTGAAGAGAAGATCA TTGGATACTTCAAGAACAAGAGCATCCTCATCACTGGATCAACAGGCTTTCTTGGAAAGAGTATGCATGCATGCACGCAT AATGTTTATACAAACATATTACGCATGCATATACTATTTGTTGCAAATTCTAGAAGTTTTTTTTTTGCGTCAAGTTGATA TGTGTTGTGCTCATCTGTTAATTAGTTCTACTGTTGGTGCATATGTGCAGTACTAGTGGAGAAGATACTGAGAGTTCAAC CTGATGTAAAGAAGATCTATCTCCCGGTGCGAGCGGTGGATGCCGCGGCGGCGAAGGATCGGGTGGAGACTGAGGTAGTG TTGTCCATCATGGTTCTTCATGATCTAGACCTCTACTGCTCTCATGATTCTTTTGATCCCTTTGCTTGAGTGTTGGTACT GAATAATTTATTTTCTATGTGCCCAGGTGGTAGGGAAGGAGTTGTTCGGGCTTCTGAGGGAGAAGCACGGGGACTGGTTT CAATCTTTCATCTGTGAAAAGATCGTCCCATTGGCCGGAGATGTGATGCGTGAGGACTTTGGCGTCGACAGCGAGACCCT GAGGGAGCTCCGGGTGACCCAGGAGCTCGATGTCATCGTTAATGGCGCCGCCACCACCAACTTCTACGAAAGGTGCGTCG TCGTCAACTGATTGTTTTGTCCAAGAAAGGAAAAAAAATCAGCAGAGAACTTGAGTAGGTGCAGCAAGAGTACGGAGTGG AATTGTGTGCGTGCAGGTATGATGTGGCCCTGGACGTGAACGTGATGGGAGTGAAGCATATGTGCAACTTCGCCAAGAAG TGCCCCAATCTCAAGGTGCTCCTCCATGTCTCCACGGGTACGTACACCAACTCTACAAATTACCATCATGGACTATGAAC TTGGATGCTTCTGGGGAAAACAAAAATGAAGTTCTTGGATGTAATTAAAGTACACCTAGATTTGATTTACAAATCAAGTT AATGAATTCATACATGAGTTGGTGCAGCTTATGTTGCGGGTGAGAAGCAAGGACTCGTGCAAGAGAGACCATTCAAGAAT GGCGAGACGCTGCTCGAGGGGACCCACCTCGATATCGACACCGAGCTGAAACTGGCCAAGGACCTGAAAAAGCAGCTTGA GGCCGACGCCGACTCGTCGCCCAAGTCCCAAAGGAAGGCCATGAAGGACCTTGGCATCACCAGGGCCCGGCACTTCGGGT GGCCGAACACATACGTGTTCACCAAGTCGATGGGGGAGATGGTGCTGGGCCAGTTGAAGTGTGATCTCCCTGTTGTCATC GTCCGTCCCAGCATCATCACCAGTGTCCAGAACGACCCACTGCCCGGATGGATCGAAGGCACCAGGTTCGTTATATGCTT CTCTTTCCTTTCCCTGCCTCTAAATTTAAAGTGCAATCGTTTTAATCTGTTGCAAATGCAAGTAAATAAAGGATGTTTGT TCAATGTAAAAATGTAAATTGCAGGACGATCGACACGATCGTGATCGGCTATGCGAAGCAGAACCTGACATACTTCTTGG CGGACCTCAACCTCACCATGGATGTGGTAAGCAACGTTGCACTATGCATGCAGTTAATTAACATATATTCCAGGCATGCA ATGGTTGGTTGTCAGTCCAGGAATCCATACAGTAAGATATGGATTTCAACGATGGCGGTGAATGCAATCGTGTGGTTGGG TATATGTTGGTGCAGATGCCGGGCGACATGGTGGTGAATGCGATGATGGCTGCCATCGTGGCGCACAGCTCGTCCTTATT GGAGAAGACACAGTCACATCCCGAGCCACACGCACCGGCGGTGTACCACGTGAGCTCGTCGCGGCGTAACCCGGCGCCGT ACAATGTGCTGCACGAGGCTGGGTTTCGGTACTTCACGGAGCACCCTCGGGTGGGCCCTGACGGCCGCACGGTGCGCACC CATAAGATGACATTCCTCAGCAGCATGGCTTCCTTCCACCTCTTTATGATGCTCAGGTACCGCCTCCTCCTTGAGCTCCT CCACCTGCTCTCCGTCCTCTGTTGTGGCCTCTTCGGCCTCGACACCCTCTACCACGACCAAGCACGCAAGTACAGGTTAG TCGGTTTAAATCTTTTGCGGATGGCATTTTTGATAACAAGTATTTCCGGACGGAGGGAGTATCTTCTTGATGGCGCGGCA TATATGATGACACGGCCTTTATTGTTATATTGTTGTAGGTTCGTGATGCACCTGGTGGATCTGTATGGGCCCTTCGCGCT GTTCAAGGGCTGCTTCGATGACGTCAACCTAAACAAGCTCAGGCTCGCCATGACCAGCAACCATGGAAGCCTCTTTAATT TCGACCCCAAGACCATTGACTGGGACGATTACTTCTACAGCGTCCACATCCCCGGGGTCCTAAAGCACATGCTCAACTGA 

 
 SEQ ID NO: 2 
 TAAla amino acid sequence VDTLΞEENIIGYFKNKSILITGSTGFLGKILVEKI RVQPDVK IYLPVRAVDAAAAKHRVETEWGKE FGLLREKHG 
 GRFQSFI EKIVPLAGDVMREDFGVDSET RE RVTQELDVIVNGAATTNFYERYDVALDVNV GVKHMCNFA KCPNLK V LHVSTAYVAGEKQGLVQERPFK GETLLEGTR DIDTELKLAKDLKKQ EADVDSSPKAERKAMKDLGLTRARHFR P NTYVFTKSMGEMVLSQLQCDVPWIVRPSIITSVQNDPLPG IEGTRTIDTIVIGYAKQNLTYFLADLNLTMDVMPGDMV VNAMMAAIVAHSSSS EKTKSHPKQHAPAVYHVSSSLRNPAPYNVLHEAGFRYFTEHPRVGPDGRTVRTHKMTFLSSMAS FH FM RYRLLLELLHLL.SI CCGLFGLDTLYHDQARKYRFVMH VDLYGPFALF GCFDDVN NKLRLAMTSNHGS F 
 NFDPKTIDWDEYFYRVHIPGVIKYMLK 

 
 SEQ ID NO: 4 
 TAAlb amino acid sequence VGTLDEGKIVDYFRNKSV ITGATGFLGKIMVEKI RVQPDVKRIYLPVRAADAAAARRRVETEWG E FCVLRERHG 
 AGFDAFVADKWG AGDVMREGFGVDPATLRDLR ADE NVIVNGAATTNFYERYDVA DV WGVKH CDFARRCPNLE VLMHVSTAYVAGEKQGLVPERPFRDGETLRDDGTQLDIDAEMRLAKD RKQMEADDDVDPKAQRKAMKDLGLTRARHFG PNTYVFTKSMGEMMLAQMMRGGDVPWIVRPSIITSVQNDPLPG IEGTRTIDAILIGYAKQS SCFLADLDLTMDVMPG DMW AMMAATVAHASSTQTSEPEKKPPPQQQHPHSVPAAPTVYHVSSSLRHPAPYAVLYRTGIRYFEEHPRVGPDGRPV RTRKVRFLGSIAAFHLFMV KYRVPLEL RL SILCCGLFGLAA YHD ARKYRFVMQLVDLYGPFSLFKGCFDDVN NK RLAMADGDHADSAFNFDPKTIDWDDYFFKVHIPGVMKYVHK 

 
 SEQ ID NO: 6 
 TAAlc amino acid sequence MVDT SEEKIIGYFKNKSILITGSTGF GKI VEKILRVQPDVKKIYLPVRAVDAAAAKDRVETEWGKEliFG LREIHG 
 D FQSFICEKIVPLAGDVMREDFGVDSETLRELRVTQELDVIVNGAATTNFYERYDVALDV VMGVKHMCNFAKKCPNLK VLLHVSTAYVAGEKQGLVQERPFKNGETLLEGTHLiDIDTELKLAKD KKQ EADADSSPKSQRKAMKDLGITRARHFG P NTYVFTKSMGEMVLGQLKCDLPWIVRPSIITSVQNDPLPGWIEGTRTIDTIVIGYAKQN TYFLADLN TMDVMPGDMV VNAMMAAIVAHSSSLLEKTQSHPEPHAPAVYHVSSSRR PAPYNVLHEAGFRYFTEHPRVGPDGRTVRTHKMTFLSS AS FHLFMMLRYR LLE LHLLSVLCCGLFGLDTLYHDQAR YRFVMHLVD YGPFALFKGCFDDVNLNK RLAMTSNHGSLF 
 NFDPKTIDWDDYFYSVHIPGV KHMLN 

 
 SEQUENCE LISTING FREE TEXT: 
 SEQ ID NO 10 OL2707 primer 
 SEQ ID NO 11 OL2708 primer 
 SEQ ID NO 12 OL2881 primer 
 SEQ ID NO 13 OL2885 primer 
 SEQ ID NO 14 OL2884 primer 
 SEQ ID NO 15 OL2883 primer 
 SEQ ID NO 16 OL2880 primer 

 
 International Depositary Authority of Canada 
 Bureau of Microbiology, Health Canada 
 1015 Arlington Strew Tel: (204) 789-2002 
 Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada R3E 3R2 Fax: (204) 789-2036 
 International Form IDΛC/BP/4 
 RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT 
 (issued pursuant to Rule 7.1 of the Budapest Treaty Regulations) 
 ATTACH COPIES OF THE ORIGINAL DEPOSIT CONTRACT AND VIABILITY STATEMENT 
 This International Depository Authority accepts the deposit ofthe microorganism specified below, which was received by it on Jun 7. 2001 
 To (Name of Depositor) Dr. Gopalan Selvaraj Address NRC/PBI 
 110 Gymnasium Place. Saskatoon, SK, S7N 0W9 
 IDENTIFICATION OF DEPOSIT 
 Reference assigned by depositor pAMW170 
 Accession Number assigned by this IDA ΪDAC 070601-1 
 The deposit identified above was accompanied by; π scientific description, (specify) 
 a proposed taxonomic designation (specify). 
 : 
 
 
 
 Date Jun 7, 2001 
 Receipt in the Case of an Original Deposit 


 
 
 International Form IDAC BP/9 
 STATEMENT OF VIABILITY 
 (Issued pursuant to Rule 10.2 of the Budapest Treaty Regulations) 
 PARTY TO WHOM THE VIABILΠΎ STATEMENT IS ISSUED 
 Name Mr. Wayne Anderson 
 Address National Research Council of Canada 
 M-58, Montreal Rd., Oflawa, ON, K1A 0R6 
 DEPOSITOR 
 Name Dr. Gopalan Selvarai 
 Address NRC PBI 110 Gymnasium Place, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 0 9 
 IDENTIFICATION OF THE DEPOSIT 
 Accession Number given by the International Depository Authority IDAC 070601-1 
 Date of he original deposit (or most recent relevant date) Jun 7. 2001 
 VIABΠJΓY TEST 
 The viability ofthe deposit identified above was tested on (most recent test date) June 8. 2001 
 On the date indicated above, the culture was: 
 K viable tJ no longer viable 
 Conditions under which the Viability Test were performed (to be filled in if the information has been requested and the results o the test were negative) _-__, 
 
 
 
 Statement of Viability 

International Depositary Authority of Canada 
 Bureau of Microbiology, Health Canada 
 1015 Arlington Street Tel: (204) 789-2002 
 Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada R3E 3R2 Fax: (204) 789-2036 
 International Form TDAC BP/4 
 RECEIPT m THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT 
 (issued pursuant to Rule 7.1 of the Budapest Treaty Regulations) 
 ATTACH COPIES OF THE ORIGINAL DEPOSIT CONTRACT AND VIABIIITY STATEMENT 
 This International Depository Authority accepts the deposit ofthe microorganism specified below, which was received by it on Jun 7, 2001  ι   
 To (Name of Depositor) Dr. Gopalan Selvarai Address NRC/PBl 
 110 Gymnasium Place, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 0W9 
 JJDENΠ ICATION OF DEPOSIT 
 Reference assigned by depositor pAMW133 
 Accession Number assigned by this IDA IDAC 070601-2 
 The deposit identified above was accompanied by: D a scientific description (specify) 
 π a proposed taxonomic designation (specify). 
 
 
 
 Date Jun 7, 2001 
 Receipt in the Case of an Original Deposit 

International Depositary Authority of Canada 
 Bureau of Microbiology, Health Canada 
 1015 Arlington Street Tel: (204) 789-2070 
 Winnipeg, Manitoba Canada R3E 3R2 Pax: (204) 789-2097 
 International Form IDAC BP/9 
 STATEMENT OF VIABILITY 
 (Issued pursuant to Rule 10.2 of the Budapest Treaty Regulations) 
 PARTY TO WHOM THE VIABILITY STATEMENT IS ISSUED 
 Name Mr. Wavπe Anderson 
 Address National Research Council of Canada 
 M-S8, Montreal Rd., Ottawa, ON, K1A 0R6 
 DEPOSITOR 
 Name Dr. Gopalan Selvarai 
 Address NRC/PBI 
 110 Gymnasium Place, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 0W9 
 IDENTIFICATION OF THE DEPOSIT 
 Accession Number given by the International Depository Authority _ IDAC 070601-2 
 Date ofthe original deposit (or most recent relevant date) Jun 1, 2001 
 VΪABΓJLITYTEST 
 The viability ofthe deposit identified above was tested on (most recent test date) June 8, 2001 
 On The date indicated above, the culture was: 
 H viable no longer viable 
 Conditions under which the Viability Test were performed (to be filled in if the informaiion has been requested and the results of the test were n^atiw) 
 
 
 
 Statement of Vlab-lity 

References 
 Aarts MGM, Dirkse WG, Stiekma WJ, Pereira A (1993) Transposon tagging of a male sterility gene in Arabidopsis. Nature 353: 715-717 Aarts MGM, Hodge R, Kalantidis K, Florack D, Wilson ZA, Mulligan B, Stiekema WJ, Scott R, Pereira A (1997) The Arabidopsis MALE 
 STERILITY 2 protein shares similarity with reductases in elongation condensation complexes. Plant Journal 12: 615-623 Aarts MGM, Keijzer CJ, Stiekema WJ, Pereira A (1995) Molecular characterization ofthe CER1 gene of Arabidopsis involved in epicuticular wax biosynthesis and pollen fertility. Plant Cell 7: 2115-2127 
 Aguirre PJ, Smith AG (1993) Molecular characterization of a gene encoding a cycteine-rich protein preferentially expressed in anthers of Lycopersicon esculentum. Plant Molecular Biology 23: 477-487 Altschul SF, Madden T , Schaffer A, Zhang J, Zhang Z, Miller W, Lip an DJ (1997) Gapped BLAST and PSI-BLAST: a new generation of protein database search programs. Nucleic Acids Research 25: 3389-3402 Bih FY, Wu SSH, Ratnayake C, Walling LL, Nothnagel EA, Huang AHC 
 (1999) The predominant protein on the surface of maize pollen is an endoxylanase synthsized by a tapetum mRNA with a long 5' leader. The Journal of Biological Chemistry 274: 22884-22894 
 Brown SM, Crouch ML (1990) Characterization of a gene family abundantly expressed in Oenothera organensis pollen that shows sequence similarity to polygalacturonase. Plant Cell 2: 263-274 Chen L, Zhang S, Beachy RN, Fauquet CM (1998) A protocol for consistent, large-scale production of fertile transgenic rice plants. Plant Cell Report 
 18: 25-31. Plant Cell Report 18: 25-31 Cho H-T, Kende H (1998) Tissue localization of expression in deep water rice. 
 Plant Journal 15: 805-812 

Datla RSS, Hammerlindl JK, Panchuk B, Pelcher LE, Keller W (1992) Modified binary plant transformation vectors with the wild-type gene encoding NPTII. Gene 122: 383-384 
 Fuerstenberg S, Bucciaglia PA, Smith AG (2000) Molecular characterization of an anther-specific geen from tobacco shows sequence similarity to a tapetum-specific gene from tomato. Sex Plan Reprod 12: 250-252 
 Futamura N, Mori H, Kouchi H, Shinohara K (2000) Male flower-specific expression of gene for polygalacturonase, pectin methylesterase and β- 1,3-glucanase in a dioecious willow (Salix gilgiana Seemen). Plant Cell Physiology 41: 16-26 
 Goldberg RB, Beals TP, Sanders PM (1993) Anther development: basic principles and practical applications. Plant Cell 5: 1217-1229 
 Hernandez-Pinzόn I, Ross JHE, Barnes KA, Damant AP, Murphy DJ (1999) Composition and role of tapetal lipid bodies in the biogenesis of the pollen coat of Brassica napus. Planta 208: 588-598 
 Hird DL, Worral D, Hodge R, Smartt S, Wyatt P, Scott R (1993) The anther- specific protein encoded by the Brassica napus and Arabidopsis thaliana a6 gene displays similarity to β-13-γλυχαvασεσ. Plant Journal 4: 1023- 1033 Hodge R, Paul W, Draper J, Scott R (1992) Cold-plaque screening: a simple technique for the isolation of low abundance, differentially expressed transcripts from conventional cDNA libraries. Plant Journal 2: 257-267 
 Huang J, Hirji R, Adam L, Rozwadowski KL, Hammerlindl JK, Keller WA, Selvaraj G (2000) Genetic engineering of glycinebetaine production toward enhancing stress tolerance in plants: metabolic limitations. Plant 
 Physiology 122: 747-756 
 Jeon JS, Chung YY, Lee S, Yi GH, Oh BH, An G (1999) Isolation and characterization of an anther-specific gene, RA8, from rice (Oryza sativa L.). Plant Molecular Biology 39: 35-44 

Kandasamy MK, McKinney EC, Meagher RB (1999) The late pollen-specific actins in angiosperms. The Plant Journal 18: 681-691 Katavic, V., Reed, D. W., Taylor, D. C, Giblin, E. M., Barton, D. L., Zou, J.- 
 T., MacKenzie, S. L., Covello, P. S. & Kunst, L. (1995). Alternation of seed fatty acid composition by an ethyl methanesulfonate-induced mutation in Arabidopsis thaliana affecting diacylglycerol acyltransferase activity. Plant Physiology 108, 399-409. Kolattukudy PE (1970) Reduction of fatty acids to alcohols by cell-free preparations of Euglena gracilis. Biochemistry 9: 1095-1102 Koltunow AM, Truettner J, Cox KH, Wallroth M, Goldberg RB (1990) 
 Different temporal and spatial gene expression patterns occur during anther development. Plant Cell 2: 1201-1224 Lopez I, Anthony RG, Maciver SK, Jiang C-J, Khan S, Weeds AG, Hussey 
 PJ (1996) Pollen specific expression of maize genes encoding actin deploymerizing factor-like proteins. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 93: 7415- 
 7420 Mariani C, de Beuckeleer M, Truettner J, Leemans J, Goldberg RB (1990) 
 Induction of male sterility in plants by a chin aeric ribonuclease gene. 
 Nature 347: 737-741 Mascarenhas JP (1975) The biochemistry of angiosperm pollen development. 
 Bot Rev 41: 259-314 May CE, Appels R (1987) Wheat worldwide in "Wheat and Wheat 
 Improvement" (Ed. E.G. Heyne) pp 165-198. Agronomy No. 13. 
 American Society of Agronomy, Inc Madison, Wisconsin, USA Metz JG, Pollard MR, Anderson L, Hayes TR, Lassner MW (2000) 
 Purification of a jojoba embryo fatty acyl-coenzyme A reductase and expression of its cDNA in high erucic acid rapeseed. Plant Physiology 
 122: 635-644 Millar AA, Clemens S, Zachgo S, Giblin EM, Taylor DC, Kunst L (1999) CUT1, an Arabidopsis gene required for cuticular wax biosynthesis and 

 pollen fertility, encodes a very-long-chain fatty acid condensing enzyme. 
 Plant Cell 11: 825-838 Nakamura T, Yamamori M, Hirano H, Hidaka S, Nagamine T (1995) 
 Production of waxy (amylose-free) wheats. Molecular General Genetics 248: 253-259 
 Nair, R. B., Joy IV, R. W., Kurylo, E., Shi, X., Schnaider, J., Datla, R. S. S., 
 Keller, W. A. & Selvaraj, G. (2000). Identification of a CYP84 family of cytochrome P450-depdendent mono-oxygenase genes in Brassica napus and perturbation of their expression for engineering sinapine reduction in the seeds. Plant Physiology 123, 1623-1634. 
 Pearson WR, Lipman DJ (1988) Improved tools for biological sequence comparison. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 85: 2444-2448 Pickett AA, Galwey NW (1997) A further evaluation of hybrid wheat. Plant 
 Varieties and Seeds 10: 15-32 Piffanelli P, Ross JHE, Murphy DJ (1998) Biogenesis and function of the lipidic structures of pollen grains. Sex Plan Reprod 11: 65-80 Preuss D, Lemieux B, Yen G, Davis RW (1993) A conditional sterile mutation eliminates-surface components from Arabidopsis pollen and disrupts cell signaling during fertilization. Genes & Development 7: 974-985 Rafnar T, Griffith IJ, Kuo M, Bond JF, Rogers BL, Klapper DG (1991) 
 Cloning of Amb a I (antigen E), the major allergen family of short ragweed pollen. Journal of Biological Chemistry 266: 1229-1236 Rubinelli P, Hu Y, Ma H (1998) Identification, sequencing analysis and expression studies of novel anther-specific genes of Arabidopsis thaliana. Plant Molecular Biology 37: 607-619 
 Scott RJ Pollen exine - the sporopollenin enigma and the physics of pattern. In: 
 Scott RJ, Stead AD (eds) Molecular and cellular aspects of plant reproduction, pp. 49-81. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (1994). Shivanna KR, Cresti M, Ciampolini F (1997) Pollen development and pollen- pistil interaction. In: Shivanna KR, Sawhney VK (eds) Pollen 

 biotechnology for crop production and improvement. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom. 
 Spencer DF, Schnare MN, Coulthart MB, Gray MW (1992) Sequence and organization of a 7.2 kb region of wheat mitochondrial DNA containing the large subunit (26S) rRNA gene. Plant Molecular Biology 20: 347-352 
 Ting JTL, Wu SSH, Ratnayake C, Huang AHC (1998) Constituents of the tapetosomes and elaioplasts in Brassica campestris tapetum and their degradation and retention during microsporogenesis. Plant Journal 16: 541-551 Vioque J, Kolattukudy PE (1997) Resolution and purification of an aldehyde- generating and an alcohol-generating fatty acyl-CoA reductase from pea leaves (Pisum sativum L.). Arch Biochem Biophys 340: 64-72 
 Walden AR, Walter C, Gardner RC (1999) Genes expressed in Pinus radiata male cones include homologs to anther-specific and pathogenesis response genes. Plant Physiology 121: 1103-1116 
 Wang A, Carrier K, Chisholm J, Wieczorek A, Huguenot C, Sanfacon H (1999) Porteolytic processing of tomato ringspot nepovirus 3C-like protease precursors: definition .of the domains for the VPg, protease and putative RNA-depedent RNA polymerase. J Gen Virol 80: 799-809 Wang A, Fan H, Singsit C, Ozias-Akins P (1998) Transformation of peanut with a soybean vspB ^xomotex-uidA chimeric gene. I. Optimization of a transformation system and analysis of GUS expression in primary transgenic tissues and plants. Physiologia Plantarum 102: 38-48 
 Zou J-T, Zhan X-Y, Wu H-M, Wang H, Cheung AY (1994) Characterization of a rice pollen-specific gene and its expression. American Journal of 
 Botany 81: 552-561 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
