
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CANCEROUS DISEASE MODIFYING ANTIBODIES 
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
 This invention relates to the isolation and production of cancerous disease modifying antibodies (CDMAB) and to the use of these CDMAB in therapeutic and diagnostic processes, optionally in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic agents. The invention further relates to binding assays which utilize the CDMAB of the instant invention. 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 CD63 in Cancer: CD63 is a Type III membrane protein of the tetraspanin family whose 30 current members are characterized by the presence of four transmembrane segments. Several groups independently identified CD63, using antibodies raised to whole cell preparations of activated platelets, granulocytes, and melanoma cells. Cloning of the respective cDNAs of their cognate glycoprotein antigens led to the recognition that the different antigens were one and the same molecule. The Sixth International Workshop on Leukocyte Typing (1996) subsequently categorized these antibodies as CD63 antibodies. Prior to the 1996 Workshop, CD63 was known by multiple names (melanoma 1 antigen, ocular melanoma-associated antigen, melanoma associated antigen ME491, lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 3, granulophysin, melanoma-associated antigen MLAl ), which were sometimes related to the antibodies that led to its partial characterization and identification. Thus, CD63 was also designated as antigen ME491 (MAb ME491), neuroglandular antigen (MAbs LS59, LS62, LS76, LSI 13, LS 140 and LS 152), Pltgp40 (MAbs H5C6, H4F8 and H5D2), human bone marrow stromal cell antigen (MAb 12Fl 2), osteoprogenitor-specific marker (MAb HOP-26), and integrin-associated protein (MAb 6Hl ). Other antibodies that were found to cross react with human CD63 were 8- I H, 8-2A (cross-reactivity with ME491), NKI/C-3 and NKI/black-13 (Vennegoor et al. Int J Cancer 35(3):287-95 (1985); Vennegoor and Rumke, Cancer Immunol Immunother. 23(2):93-100 (1986); Demetrick et al, J Natl Cancer Inst 84(6):422-9 (1992); Wang et al., Arch Ophthalmol. 1 10(3):399-404 (1992)). Work with the rabbit polyclonal antibody RaC3, raised against the immunoaffinity- purified NKI/C3 antigen, revealed the target protein as a core polypeptide with an apparent molecular weight around 2OkDa and heavily post-translationally modified by N- linked carbohydrate (Gruters et al., Cancer Res 49(2):459-65(l 989)). 

 CD63 was initially cloned from a melanoma cDNA library using MAb ME491 , one of a number of antibodies raised against a preparation the SK Mel 23 human cutaneous melanoma cell line and screened for binding to melanoma cells. Immunoprecipitation from I-lactoperoxidase-labelled melanoma cells revealed a 30- 6OkDa protein present at the cell surface. The antigen recognized by this antibody was shown to be a protein highly post-translationally modified. By immunohistochemistry the antibody was found to recognize melanoma cells in tumor tissue but not the surrounding normal looking cells, thus suggesting that it recognized a potentially tumor-specific antigen determinant (Atkinson et al., Hybridoma 4, 243-255 (1984)). This antibody also stained melanoma cells in 87% of uveal melanoma cases and balloon cells in 86% of the cases where the latter were present. In this study staining of the normal occular tissue was variable, and positive in only a few of the normal cases and only rarely in the morphologically normal melanocytes (Folberg et al., Arch Ophthalmol 103(2):275-9 (1985)). In a separate experiment monoclonal antibodies MAb6-Fl, MAb8-lH and MAb8-2A, raised also against the SK Mel 23 cell line, were shown to recognize the same antigen and to display an immunohistochemical staining pattern very similar to that obtained with MAb ME491. In addition these antibodies stained liver metastatic tumor tissue, in patients with primary choroidal melanoma but did not stain normal hepatocytes. In another study of human melanoma biopsies it was shown that the reactivity of MAb ME491 appeared to be inversely correlated with melanoma progression. The reactivity of the ME491 antibody was low in normal melanocytes, higher in the early stages of melanoma progression (dysplastic nevi and radial growth phase (RGP) tumors) and decreased or even absent in more advanced melanoma tumors such as those in the vertical growth phase (VGP) and in metastatic tumors. Another monoclonal antibody (MAb 4A3) raised against primary human uveal melanoma cells was found to specifically recognize an antigen present in these cells, and revealed only background levels of binding to lymphocytes from healthy individuals. The antigen(s) detected by this antibody, by Western immunoblotting of melanoma tissue, consist(s) of a doublet with an approximate apparent molecular weight of 55kDa, suggesting that the antigen recognized by this antibody was not the same as that recognized by the antibodies that were clustered as anti- CD63 (Damato et al., Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 27(9): 1362-7 (1986)). 
 CD63 was also found and partially characterized in human platelets using monoclonal antibodies raised against thrombin-activated platelets (MAbs 2.28, 2.19, 5.15 

 and 5dlO). These antibodies detected an activation-dependent platelet membrane 53 kDa glycoprotein, as demonstrated by the increased number of binding sites (more than 10 fold) upon thrombin activation. In competition assays these antibodies blocked each other binding, suggesting that they recognized the same or spatially close antigen determinants. Results from platelet aggregation experiments revealed that these antibodies per se did not cause platelet aggregation, nor did they interfere with the aggregation induced by adenosine di-phosphate (ADP), thrombin, collagen, ristocetin and epinephrin. Electron microscopy data suggested that in resting platelets these antibodies recognized an antigen localized in lysosome membranes. Immunohistochemistry data indicated that these antibodies recognized an antigen present in restricted regions of spleen, lymph nodes, thymus and in endothelial cells. In another study the MAb 2.28 also labelled internal granules in resting platelets and in megakaryocytes and endothelial cells, and in the latter two it co-localized with antibodies to the enzyme cathepsin D, a known marker of lysosomal compartments. Follow up studies with antibody clustering and expression cloning, led to the identification of the antigen recognized by this antibody as CD63, and further confirmed its presence in lysosomal compartments, where it co-localized with the compartment-specific markers LAMP-I and LAMP-2. Cloning of this molecule identified it as CD63 and allowed its inclusion in the tetraspanin family. 
 Expression of CD63 was detected in many different tissues and cell types. At the cellular level it was found to be associated with the plasma membrane and also with intracellular late endosomal vesicular structures. Cell activation led, in certain cases, to increased surface expression by mobilization of intracellular stores of CD63. CD63 was also found to co-localize, and physically associate, with MHC class II in B-lymphocytes, particularly in endosomes, in exosomes involved in exporting MHC class II complexes to the surface, and in secreted vesicles. CD63 was found to interact with other members of the tetraspanin family, such as CD9, CD81 , CDl 1 (integrin chain OIM , L , X), CD18 (integrin chain β 2 ), CD49c (VLA-3 or integrin chain α 3 ), CD49d (integrin chain α 4 ), CD49f (VLA- 6 or integrin chain α 6 ) and CD29 (integrin chain β|), in a variety of cell types including B- and T-lymphocytes, neutrophils, breast cancer and melanoma cells. The role of CD63 in cancer has been unclear. Although CD63 was initially discovered by several independent groups to be involved in diverse events such as platelet and granulocyte activation, MHC class II-dependent antigen presentation, integrin- dependent cell adhesion and motility, and tumor progression in certain types of cancers, its 

 function has yet to be fully elucidated. Even though current evidence supports its role in a variety of cellular physiological events, it is not clear if these functions are independent of each other or if there is an underlying common cellular mechanism in which CD63 is involved. Several groups have investigated the association between CD63 and the progression of certain types of tumors, particularly melanomas. A number of other anti- CD63 monoclonal antibodies, in addition to Mab ME491 , were developed for immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of cancer samples obtained from patients with tumors at various stages of progression. It was observed that decreased staining, interpreted by the authors as most likely reflecting decreased expression of CD63, correlated with advanced progression and with metastatic characteristics of the tumors. A more recent study, also described a significant correlation between the apparent decreased expression levels (after quantitation of mRNA) of several members of the tetraspanin protein family, including CD63, and the in vitro invasiveness of several mammary carcinoma-derived cell lines. Another study identified CD63, by differential display, in cultured breast cancer cells subjected to estrogen deprivation. This indicated that CD63 expression can be steroid-hormone regulated and that altered CD63 abundance and/or function might also be associated with breast tumor progression. 
 By contrast, work with anti-CD63 monoclonal antibody MAb FC-5.01 revealed that its reactive epitope was variably expressed in different normal tissues. 
 Although this antibody was found to recognize CD63, it did not distinguish between early and more advanced stage melanomas, including metastatic melanomas (unlike MAb ME491 ), which suggested that the CD63 antigen was present in these more advanced tumors, but that some of its epitopes may have been masked in the cells from tumors at different stages. This might have been due to altered post-translational modifications of the core CD63 polypeptide, or to the interaction of CD63 with other molecules, which might have affected the availability of specific epitopes for antibody recognition and binding. These results supported the observation, described by Si and Hersey, Int J Cancer 54(l ):37-43 (1993), that staining with the anti-CD63 MAb NKI-C3, did not distinguish between tissue sections from melanomas at different stages of progression, such as primary, radial growth phase, vertical growth phase, and metastatic melanomas. Although in other studies (Adachi el al, J Clin Oncol 16(4): 1397-406 (1998); Huang et al., Am J Pathol 153(3):973-83 (1998)) analysis of mRNA from breast, and from non-small-cell lung cancers, by quantitative PCR, revealed that for two tetraspanin family members (CD9 

 and CD82) there was a significant correlation between their expression levels and tumor progression and patient prognosis, no such correlation was found for CD63, in that its expression was similar in all the samples. As a result of these, apparently conflicting, results, there is lack of strong and consistent data that would definitively demonstrate the association of CD63 with cancer. 
 To date very few in vivo studies have attempted to establish a link between CD63 and an eventual tumor suppressor function of this molecule. In one of these studies, human CD63-overexpressing H-ras-transformed NIH-3T3 cells, injected both subcutaneously and intraperitoneal Iy into athymic mice, revealed a decreased malignant/tumorigenic phenotype, as indicated by decreased tumor size and metastatic potential as well as by increased survival time, when compared to the behavior of the parental non-CD63-overexpressing cells. This suggested that the presence of human CD63 in the transformed cells might suppress their malignant behavior. More recently, work with a transgenic mouse model expressing human CD63, and developed to induce tolerance to CD63, indicated that tumor growth of an injected human CD63-MHC class I (H-2K b ) co-transfected murine melanoma cell line could be inhibited, and survival increased, upon immunization with human CD63 fused to vaccinia virus. It was suggested by the authors that the therapeutic effect was T-lymphocyte-dependent, and that endogenous anti-CD63 antibodies did not appear to be involved in this protective effect, since tumor growth inhibition only occurred when animals were injected with the CD63- MHC class I co-transfected cells and not with the CD63-only transfected cell line. This interpretation was supported by the fact that in wild type animals, pre-immunized with purified human CD63 and shown to have developed anti-human CD63 antibodies, there was no protective effect against tumor cell growth. Work described by Radford et ah, Int J Cancer 62(5):631 -5 (1995) using the KM3 cell line, initially thought to be of human origin but later characterized as being of rat lineage, transfected with human CD63, suggested that expression of this protein decreased the growth and metastastic potential of these cells, relative to that observed using the parental non-transfected KM3 cells, when injected intradermally into athymic mice, although there was no significant difference between the in vitro growth rates of the various transfected and non-transfected cell lines. These observations distinguished the potential effect of CD63 from that of other tumor suppressor genes known to affect both the in vivo and the in vitro growth rates of tumor cells. Furthermore, addition of the anti-CD63 monoclonal antibody ME491 , which was found to have a functional effect on the same cells by decreasing their random motility in 

 an in vitro assay (Radford et al., J Immunol 158(7):3353-8 (1997)), did not impact their in vitro growth rates. 
 This study also described the observation that CD63 may promote migration in response to extracellular matrix (ECM)-derived chemoattractants, such as laminin, flbronectin, collagen and vitronectin, and that this effect may be mediated by the functional involvement of βj-type integrins, although antibodies to the integrins were unable to block these effects. However, there appeared to be an antagonistic effect between the role of vitronectin-mediated signaling (a known ligand for the integrin α v βs) and that of the signaling mediated by other ECM components such as flbronectin, laminin and collagen on CD63 transfected cells. This suggested that under specific conditions, in the presence of ECM components, expression of CD63 may lead to decreased migration, and that this may be dependent on a fine balance between adhesion and motility. In another study, an anti-CD63 monoclonal antibody (MAb 710F) enhanced the adhesion and spreading of PM A-treated HL-60 cells, while another anti-CD63 monoclonal antibody (MAb 2.28), promoted a similar effect, but only on a much smaller fraction of the cell population, and only when added in much larger amounts. These results showed that although many antibodies to CD63 have been developed, their functional effects can be quite different. 
 Tetraspanins may also be involved in cell proliferation. Oren et al. MoI Cell Biol 10(8):4007-l 5 (1990) described anti-proliferative effects of the murine MAb 5A6, that recognizes CD81 (TAPA-I ), on lymphoma cell lines. In another study, ligation of CD37 in human T-lymphocytes with antibodies blocked CD37-induced proliferation. More recently, a study with an animal model deficient in the expression of CD37 (CD37 knockout) revealed that T lymphocytes from this animal were hyperproliferative compared to those from wild type animals in response to concanavalin A activation and CD3/T cell receptor engagement. It was therefore proposed that a functional role in cell growth and proliferation might be a common feature of the tetraspanin family. Recent studies with hepatoblastoma and hepatocellular carcinoma cells revealed that engagement of these cells with anti-CD81 monoclonal antibodies led to activation of the Erk/MAP kinase pathway. This signaling pathway has been shown to be involved with cell growth and proliferation events. In parallel work, transfected cell lines overexpressing human CD81 displayed increased proliferation relative to the mock-transfected control cells. Therefore, available evidence has pointed to a role of the tetraspanins in general, and of CD63 in particular, in 

 events associated with cell growth proliferation and with cell adhesion/motility. These two types of cellular events are currently the target of intense research as both play a central role in tumor progression and metastasis. 
 Amino acid sequence determination and analysis did not reveal homology between tetraspanins and other protein families, or with any previously characterized functional modules, nor has it suggested any previously known enzymatic activity. As a result it has been very difficult to investigate the role of this family of proteins in the modulation of signal transduction pathways. However, the evidence generated using tetraspanin-specifϊc reagents that led to changes in cellular physiology, and which were intimately dependent on the modulation of signal transduction pathways, suggests that tetraspanins have signal transduction properties. CD63 was shown to associate, both physically and functionally, with a number of molecules that are themselves either enzymes involved in the generation of secondary messenger signals, or are associated physically and/or functionally with such enzymes. Experiments designed to dissect the mechanism controlling the interaction of human neutrophils with endothelial cells, which is one of the initial steps of the inflammatory response, revealed that pre-treatment of neutrophils with several anti-CD63 monoclonal antibodies (AHN-16, AHN-16.1, AHN-16.2, AHN-16.3 and AHN-16-5) promoted their adhesion to cultured endothelial cell layers. Furthermore this effect was strongly dependent on the presence of calcium ion (Ca 2+ ), a well-known modulator of many intracellular signaling pathways and which was restricted to a specific period of time during which the cells were exposed to the stimulating antibodies. After longer exposure to the antibody, adhesion of the neutrophils to the endothelial cells became insensitive to the later addition of Ca 2+ , therefore implicating a dynamic and temporally regulated (transitory) event. In addition, CD63 was found to physically interact with the 
 CDl 1/CD18 protein complex, and reagents that specifically targeted this complex mediated a modulatory signal. In this study CD63 was also found to be physically associated with, or to be part of, a complex that included the enzyme tyrosine kinases Lck and Hck. These enzymes are members of a class of proteins that play a central role in mediating intracellular regulatory signals upon activation of specific surface receptors and are part of cascades of signaling pathways that result in cell-specific physiological changes. Another study suggested that co-ligation of tetraspanins (including CD63) with monoclonal antibodies could enhance the phosphorylation or activity of the enzyme focal adhesion kinase (FAK) that was induced by adhesion of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells 

 to collagen substrate. This pointed to a direct involvement of CD63 (and of other tetraspanin family members) in the modulation of integrin-mediated tyrosine kinase signaling pathways. Other signaling pathways that may functionally intersect with the presence and ligation of surface CD63 by the anti-CD63 monoclonal antibody MAb 710F appear to be those dependent on modulation of phosphorylation by the enzyme protein kinase C (PKC), another well known modulator of intracellular signaling pathways. In this context, enhancement of adhesion and of morphological changes in the myeloid cell line HL-60 by MAb 710F was dependent on pre-treatment of the cells with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) although the temporal involvement of PKC was not conclusively demonstrated. However, later work by an independent group demonstrated that PMA- induced HL-60 differentiation was PKC-activity dependent since the molecule Ro31 - 8220, a specific inhibitor of this enzyme, blocked the effect of PMA. 
 Further evidence supporting the association of CD63, and other tetraspanin family members, with signal transduction pathways, arose from work that described a physical association, either direct or as part of a supramolecular complex, between CD63 (and also CD53) molecules with tyrosine phosphatase activity. In this study, immunoprecipitate complexes isolated with anti-CD63 antibodies were shown to be associated with tyrosine phosphatase activity, although unlike for CD53, which was shown to associate with the tyrosine phosphatase CD45, it was not possible to identify the CD63- associated phosphatase. More recently several members of the tetraspanin family were also found to be associated with a type II phosphatidyl inositol 4-kinase (type II PI 4-K) (Berditchevski et al., J Biol Chem 272(5):2595-8 (1997)). This interaction appeared to be very specific since it was only identified for CD9, CD63, CD81, CDl 51 and A15/TALLA, and it was not observed to occur with CD37, CD52, CD82, or NAG-2. In addition, the association between tetraspanin family members and PI-4K was mutually exclusive since each PI-4 kinase-containing complex was limited to a single tetraspanin family member. CD63-PI-4 kinase complexes, in particular, were found, almost entirely, in intracellular compartments in lipid raft-like domains, unlike those formed with the other tetraspanin members. This observation suggested that this CD63 fraction, found to interact with the PI-4 kinase, might have been involved in specific intracellular events (Claas et al., J Biol Chem 276(1 1 ):7974-84 (2001 )) related to, or dependent from, phosphoinositide biosynthesis pathways, which are well known for their involvement in the regulation of membrane trafficking (endocytosis and exocytosis) and of cytoskeleton reorganization, in 

 addition to their function as secondary messenger molecules (Martin Annu. Rev. Cell. Dev Biol 14:231 -64 (1998)). 
 The direct and important involvement of all the enzymes, that CD63 was found until now to be directly associated with, in the regulation of signaling pathways provided further evidence in support of the association of CD63 with the modulation of signal transduction pathways, either as a regulator or as an effector molecule downstream from the activity of these enzymes. 
 Elucidation of the mechanisms that lead to tumor progression is a very difficult and complex endeavor frequently marked by apparently contradictory observations and, as a result, it is rare that those observations successfully translate into effective therapies. In view of what is currently known about the association of CD63 with tumor progression and metastasis and with signal transduction mechanisms, it is possible that its function may be altered, in tumor cells. 
 Development of antigen-specific reagents with cytotoxic effects on tumor cells, that bind cells expressing the recognized antigen(s) and which by themselves, or associated with other molecules, have cellular and in vivo physiological activity such that these reagents inhibit tumor cell growth, progression and metastasis, without significant deleterious effects on normal cell populations, would be extremely beneficial as a potential therapeutic and or diagnostic tool. Recently, new data has pointed to an important mode of action of CD63 in the regulation of normal cell physiology, and that when altered may have important impact on the behavior of the cells under pathological conditions, including in cancer. 
 MAb antibody Fc-5.01, known to cause internalization of CD63 in breast cancer cells was used to determine the levels of surface expression and internalization of CD63 in human dendritic cells (DCs) (Mantezazza et al, Blood 104(4): 1 183-90 (2004)). CD63 was found to localize both at the cell surface and intracellular^, in co-localization with endosomal and lysosomal markers. The intact antibody, and its Fab fragments were able to induce internalization of CD63. Simultaneously internalization of CD63 promoted by Fc-5.01 resulted in decreased surface expression of several integrin molecules, CDl Ib, CD 18, CD29 and α5, but not of β3 or of HLA-II molecules. Results from a chemotaxis assay revealed that this antibody, and others that recognize other members of the tetraspanin family of proteins, caused an increase in the number of cells that migrated across a membrane barrier towards chemoattractants. In these cells (immature DCs) yeast 

 phagocytosis, which is mediated by βl,3-glycan receptors was accompanied by a decrease in the levels of cell surface CD63 but not of the tetraspanins CD9, CD81 and CD82, nor of HLA-II molecules. On the other hand, internalization induced by Dextran-FITC, which is mediated by the macrophage mannose receptor (MMR) did not result in decreased CD63 surface expression or of CD9, CD81 , CD82, HLA-I and HLA-II molecules. Therefore it would appear that CD63 is associated with specific receptors, sometimes physically as in the case of the βl ,3-glycan receptor dectin-1 , and participate in the internalization events. The fact that the surface expression of several integrin molecules is decreased upon antibody-induced internalization of CD63 also suggests that such a CD63-dependent event can have a significant impact on the cell surface receptor composition and thus impact the physiology of such cell populations as demonstrated by the effect on the DC migration assay. 
 In another study, the internalization of membrane type-1 metalloproteinase (MTl-MMP) was found to be affected by CD63. In this study FLAG-tagged MTl -MMP internalized and acquired a diffuse cytoplasmic distribution that was accompanied by a decrease in its cell surface levels. Addition of chlorquine, a known lysosomal proteiase inhibitor, partially inhibited this internal ization-dependent disappearance of cell surface MTl-MMP, and simultaneously altered the internal ization-dependent cytoplasmic distribution in such a way that MTl -MMP remained associated with CD63 positive internal granule-type structures. Co-transfection of cells with MTl -MMP and CD63 resulted in decreased cell surface levels of this metal loprotease, which was not dependent on the overall levels of MMP activity, since an inhibitor of these molecules, BB94, did not have any impact on this decrease, while chlorquine did. This observation suggested that increased CD63 expression may accelerate the turnover/internalization/degradation of MTl -MMP. The increased internalization/degradation of MTl-MMP depended on the direct interaction between MTl-MMP and CD63. This type of function was further supported by previous observations that CD63 directly interacted with the μ2 and μ3 subunbits of the adaptor proteins AP-2 and AP-3 respectively and which are involved in protein sorting to endosomes and lysosomes. It was also previously shown that the cytoplasmic tail of MTl -MMP was important for the internalization of this molecule and that this event played an important role in the regulation of its invasion-promoting activity. MTl -MMP is also considered to play important roles in the invasion of malignant tumor 

 cells. Therefore it is possible that regulation of its overall levels may depend on its interaction and internalization by associating with CD63. 
 In another recent publication (Xu et ah, Embo J23(4):81 1-22 (2004)) a genetic screen for Drosophila eye-enriched genes that might be involved in retinal degeneration identified a large number of genes among which that of a tetraspanin-like molecule named 'sunglasses' ('sun'). The closest-related mammalian protein was the tetraspanin CD63. And similarly to CD63, 'sun' was found to be enriched in lysosomes, as suggested by immunoelectron microscopy. Results from this work suggested that 'sun' participates in the normal downregulation of RhI signaling, independent of the arrestin mediated mechanism that is typical of other G-protein coupled receptors. In addition 'sun' was important not only in the regular turnover of activated RhI but also, and possibly dependent on this event, had a significant impact in the maintenance of rhabdomers' structure, which resulted in a dramatic sww-dependent retinal degeneration in the mutant flies. Together the data implicates this homologue of mammalian CD63 in the normal trafficking-dependent turnover of proteins and abnormalities in its expression/function result in physiological abnormalities. 
 Another publication on the role of CD63 in receptor internalization described the co-localization of the β-subunit of the gastric ion pump H,K-ATPase with this tetraspanin in COS cells co-transfected with both molecules. In this study it was found also that the H,K-ATPase β-subunit underwent a CD63 expression-dependent enhancement of internalization and of localization to lysosome-like cytoplasmic granular structures. 
 All the data from the work described above suggested that CD63 was also involved in the normal turnover of cell-surface molecules, by participating in their internalization and lysosomal-dependent degradation, thus participating in the control of the normal cell physiology. It is possible, therefore, that manipulation of this function of CD63 might be an important tool to control events dependent on the activity of specific molecules, or groups of molecules, whose surface expression or function is either altered or contributes to abnormal cell behavior in pathological conditions such as cancer. Until recently, no anti-CD63 antibodies, or other reagents that specifically targeted CD63-expressing cells, have been reported to have a simultaneous impact on the in vitro and in vivo growth characteristics of tumor cells, and also on the survival of animal models of tumor growth. Published U.S. patent application No. 10/810,751 

 discloses two such anti-CD63 antibodies that demonstrate in vitro and in vivo efficacy against human cancer cells. 
 Monoclonal Antibodies as Cancer Therapy: Each individual who presents with cancer is unique and has a cancer that is as different from other cancers as that person's identity. Despite this, current therapy treats all patients with the same type of cancer, at the same stage, in the same way. At least 30 percent of these patients will fail the first line therapy, thus leading to further rounds of treatment and the increased probability of treatment failure, metastases, and ultimately, death. A superior approach to treatment would be the customization of therapy for the particular individual. The only current therapy which lends itself to customization is surgery. Chemotherapy and radiation treatment cannot be tailored to the patient, and surgery by itself, in most cases is inadequate for producing cures. 
 With the advent of monoclonal antibodies, the possibility of developing methods for customized therapy became more realistic since each antibody can be directed to a single epitope. Furthermore, it is possible to produce a combination of antibodies that are directed to the constellation of epitopes that uniquely define a particular individual's tumor. 
 Having recognized that a significant difference between cancerous and normal cells is that cancerous cells contain antigens that are specific to transformed cells, the scientific community has long held that monoclonal antibodies can be designed to specifically target transformed cells by binding specifically to these cancer antigens; thus giving rise to the belief that monoclonal antibodies can serve as "Magic Bullets" to eliminate cancer cells. However, it is now widely recognized that no single monoclonal antibody can serve in all instances of cancer, and that monoclonal antibodies can be deployed, as a class, as targeted cancer treatments. Monoclonal antibodies isolated in accordance with the teachings of the instantly disclosed invention have been shown to modify the cancerous disease process in a manner which is beneficial to the patient, for example by reducing the tumor burden, and will variously be referred to herein as cancerous disease modifying antibodies (CDMAB) or "anti-cancer" antibodies. At the present time, the cancer patient usually has few options of treatment. 
 The regimented approach to cancer therapy has produced improvements in global survival and morbidity rates. However, to the particular individual, these improved statistics do not necessarily correlate with an improvement in their personal situation. 

 Thus, if a methodology was put forth which enabled the practitioner to treat each tumor independently of other patients in the same cohort, this would permit the unique approach of tailoring therapy to just that one person. Such a course of therapy would, ideally, increase the rate of cures, and produce better outcomes, thereby satisfying a long-felt need. 
 Historically, the use of polyclonal antibodies has been used with limited success in the treatment of human cancers. Lymphomas and leukemias have been treated with human plasma, but there were few prolonged remission or responses. Furthermore, there was a lack of reproducibility and there was no additional benefit compared to chemotherapy. Solid tumors such as breast cancers, melanomas and renal cell carcinomas have also been treated with human blood, chimpanzee serum, human plasma and horse serum with correspondingly unpredictable and ineffective results. 
 There have been many clinical trials of monoclonal antibodies for solid tumors. In the 1980s there were at least four clinical trials for human breast cancer which produced only one responder from at least 47 patients using antibodies against specific antigens or based on tissue selectivity. It was not until 1998 that there was a successful clinical trial using a humanized anti-Her2/neu antibody (Herceptin ® ) in combination with cisplatin. In this trial 37 patients were assessed for responses of which about a quarter had a partial response rate and an additional quarter had minor or stable disease progression. The median time to progression among the responders was 8.4 months with median response duration of 5.3 months. 
 Herceptin ®  was approved in 1998 for first line use in combination with Taxol®. Clinical study results showed an increase in the median time to disease progression for those who received antibody therapy plus Taxol® (6.9 months) in comparison to the group that received Taxol® alone (3.0 months). There was also a slight increase in median survival; 22 versus 18 months for the Herceptin ®  plus Taxol ®  treatment arm versus the Taxol® treatment alone arm. In addition, there was an increase in the number of both complete (8 versus 2 percent) and partial responders (34 versus 15 percent) in the antibody plus Taxol® combination group in comparison to Taxol® alone. However, treatment with Herceptin ®  and Taxol ®  led to a higher incidence of cardiotoxicity in comparison to Taxol ' treatment alone (13 versus 1 percent respectively). Also, Herceptin ®  therapy was only effective for patients who over express (as determined through immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis) the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2/neu), a receptor, which currently has no known function or biologically 

 important ligand; approximately 25 percent of patients who have metastatic breast cancer. Therefore, there is still a large unmet need for patients with breast cancer. Even those who can benefit from Herceptin ®  treatment would still require chemotherapy and consequently would still have to deal with, at least to some degree, the side effects of this kind of treatment. 
 The clinical trials investigating colorectal cancer involve antibodies against both glycoprotein and glycolipid targets. Antibodies such as 17-1 A, which has some specificity for adenocarcinomas, has undergone Phase 2 clinical trials in over 60 patients with only 1 patient having a partial response. In other trials, use of 17- 1 A produced only 1 complete response and 2 minor responses among 52 patients in protocols using additional cyclophosphamide. To date, Phase III clinical trials of 17-1 A have not demonstrated improved efficacy as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer. The use of a humanized murine monoclonal antibody initially approved for imaging also did not produce tumor regression. Only recently have there been any positive results from colorectal cancer clinical studies with the use of monoclonal antibodies. In 2004, ERBITUX ®  was approved for the second line treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. Results from both a two-arm Phase II clinical study and a single arm study showed that ERBITUX ®  in combination with irinotecan had a response rate of 23 and 15 percent respectively with a median time to disease progression of 4.1 and 6.5 months respectively. Results from the same two-arm Phase II clinical study and another single arm study showed that treatment with ERBITUX ®  alone resulted in an 1 1 and 9 percent response rate respectively with a median time to disease progression of 1.5 and 4.2 months respectively. Consequently in both Switzerland and the United States, ERBITUX ®  treatment in combination with irinotecan, and in the United States, ERBITUX ®  treatment alone, has been approved as a second line treatment of colon cancer patients who have failed first line irinotecan therapy. Therefore, like Herceptin ® , treatment in Switzerland is only approved as a combination of monoclonal antibody and chemotherapy. In addition, treatment in both Switzerland and the US is only approved for patients as a second line therapy. Also, in 2004, AVASTIN ®  was approved for use in combination with intravenous 5-fluorouraciI-based chemotherapy as a first line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Phase III clinical study results demonstrated a prolongation in the median survival of patients treated with AVASTIN ®  plus 5-fluorouracil compared to 

 patients treated with 5-fluourouracil alone (20 months versus 16 months respectively). However, again like Herceptin ®  and ERB1TUX ® , treatment is only approved as a combination of monoclonal antibody and chemotherapy. 
 There also continues to be poor results for lung, brain, ovarian, pancreatic, prostate, and stomach cancer. The most promising recent results for non-small cell lung cancer came from a Phase II clinical trial where treatment involved a monoclonal antibody (SGN-15; dox-BR96, anti-Sialyl-LeX) conjugated to the cell-killing drug doxorubicin in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent TAXOTERE®. TAXOTERE® is the only FDA approved chemotherapy for the second line treatment of lung cancer. Initial data indicate an improved overall survival compared to TAXOTERE® alone. Out of the 62 patients who were recruited for the study, two-thirds received SGN-15 in combination with TAXOTERE® while the remaining one-third received TAXOTERE® alone. For the patients receiving SGN-15 in combination with TAXOTERE®, median overall survival was 7.3 months in comparison to 5.9 months for patients receiving TAXOTERE® alone. Overall survival at 1 year and 18 months was 29 and 18 percent respectively for patients receiving SNG- 15 plus TAXOTERE® compared to 24 and 8 percent respectively for patients receiving TAXOTERE® alone. Further clinical trials are planned. 
 Preclinically, there has been some limited success in the use of monoclonal antibodies for melanoma. Very few of these antibodies have reached clinical trials and to date none have been approved or demonstrated favorable results in Phase III clinical trials. 
 The discovery of new drugs to treat disease is hindered by the lack of identification of relevant targets among the products of 30,000 known genes that unambiguously contribute to disease pathogenesis. In oncology research, potential drug targets are often selected simply due to the fact that they are over-expressed in tumor cells. Targets thus identified are then screened for interaction with a multitude of compounds. In the case of potential antibody therapies, these candidate compounds are usually derived from traditional methods of monoclonal antibody generation according to the fundamental principles laid down by Kohler and Milstein (1975, Nature, 256, 495-497, Kohler and Milstein). Spleen cells are collected from mice immunized with antigen (e.g. whole cells, cell fractions, purified antigen) and fused with immortalized hybridoma partners. The resulting hybridomas are screened and selected for secretion of antibodies which bind most avidly to the target. Many therapeutic and diagnostic antibodies directed against cancer cells, including Herceptin" 0  and RITUXIMAB, have been produced using these methods and selected on the basis of their affinity. The flaws in this strategy are twofold. 

 Firstly, the choice of appropriate targets for therapeutic or diagnostic antibody binding is limited by the paucity of knowledge surrounding tissue specific carcinogenic processes and the resulting simplistic methods, such as selection by overexpression, by which these targets are identified. Secondly, the assumption that the drug molecule that binds to the receptor with the greatest affinity usually has the highest probability for initiating or inhibiting a signal may not always be the case. 
 Despite some progress with the treatment of breast and colon cancer, the identification and development of efficacious antibody therapies, either as single agents or co-treatments, has been inadequate for all types of cancer. 
 Prior Patents: 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,750,102 discloses a process wherein cells from a patient's tumor are transfected with MHC genes which may be cloned from cells or tissue from the patient. These transfected cells are then used to vaccinate the patient. 
 U.S. Patent No. 4,861,581 discloses a process comprising the steps of obtaining monoclonal antibodies that are specific to an internal cellular component of neoplastic and normal cells of the mammal but not to external components, labeling the monoclonal antibody, contacting the labeled antibody with tissue of a mammal that has received therapy to kill neoplastic cells, and determining the effectiveness of therapy by measuring the binding of the labeled antibody to the internal cellular component of the degenerating neoplastic cells. In preparing antibodies directed to human intracellular antigens, the patentee recognizes that malignant cells represent a convenient source of such antigens. 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,171,665 provides a novel antibody and method for its production. Specifically, the patent teaches formation of a monoclonal antibody which has the property of binding strongly to a protein antigen associated with human tumors, e.g. those of the colon and lung, while binding to normal cells to a much lesser degree. 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,484,596 provides a method of cancer therapy comprising surgically removing tumor tissue from a human cancer patient, treating the tumor tissue to obtain tumor cells, irradiating the tumor cells to be viable but non-tumorigenic, and using these cells to prepare a vaccine for the patient capable of inhibiting recurrence of the primary tumor while simultaneously inhibiting metastases. The patent teaches the development of monoclonal antibodies which are reactive with surface antigens of tumor cells. As set forth at col. 4, lines 45 et seq., the patentees utilize autochthonous tumor cells 

 in the development of monoclonal antibodies expressing active specific immunotherapy in human neoplasia. 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,693,763 teaches a glycoprotein antigen characteristic of human carcinomas and not dependent upon the epithelial tissue of origin. U.S. Patent No. 5,783,186 is drawn to Anti-Her2 antibodies which induce apoptosis in Her2 expressing cells, hybridoma cell lines producing the antibodies, methods of treating cancer using the antibodies and pharmaceutical compositions including said antibodies. 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,849,876 describes new hybridoma cell lines for the production of monoclonal antibodies to mucin antigens purified from tumor and non- tumor tissue sources. 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,869,268 is drawn to a method for generating a human lymphocyte producing an antibody specific to a desired antigen, a method for producing a monoclonal antibody, as well as monoclonal antibodies produced by the method. The patent is particularly drawn to the production of an anti-HD human monoclonal antibody useful for the diagnosis and treatment of cancers. 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,869,045 relates to antibodies, antibody fragments, antibody conjugates and single chain immunotoxins reactive with human carcinoma cells. The mechanism by which these antibodies function is two-fold, in that the molecules are reactive with cell membrane antigens present on the surface of human carcinomas, and further in that the antibodies have the ability to internalize within the carcinoma cells, subsequent to binding, making them especially useful for forming antibody-drug and antibody-toxin conjugates. In their unmodified form the antibodies also manifest cytotoxic properties at specific concentrations. U.S. Patent No. 5,780,033 discloses the use of autoantibodies for tumor therapy and prophylaxis. However, this antibody is an antinuclear autoantibody from an aged mammal. In this case, the autoantibody is said to be one type of natural antibody found in the immune system. Because the autoantibody comes from "an aged mammal", there is no requirement that the autoantibody actually comes from the patient being treated. In addition the patent discloses natural and monoclonal antinuclear autoantibody from an aged mammal, and a hybridoma cell line producing a monoclonal antinuclear autoantibody. 

 U.S. Patent Application No. 10/810,751 discloses the use of two anti-CD63 monoclonal antibodies and their in vitro and in vivo efficacy against human breast, prostate, pancreatic and melanoma cancer cells. 
 U.S. Patent No. 5,296,348 teaches methods for selecting monoclonal antibodies specific for cancer cell surface antigens that are internalizing, and for identifying monoclonal antibodies having anti-transcriptional and/or anti-replicational effects on cell metabolism. By way of example the ME491 antibody was shown to internalize in W9, WM35, WM983 melanoma cells, and SW948 colorectal carcinoma cells. In addition ME491 antibody was shown to decrease transcription and cell proliferation in S W948 cells. The patent application US2003021 1498A 1 (and its related applications: WO0175177A3, WO0175177A2, AU0153140A5) allege a method of inhibiting the growth or metastasis of an ovarian tumor with an antibody that binds an ovarian tumor marker polypeptide encoded by an ovarian tumor marker gene selected from among a group that includes CD63 antigen. Serial analysis of gene expression using ovarian cancer was carried out to identify ovarian tumor marker genes which lead to the identification of CD63 as a candidate. The patent application WO02055551A1 (and its related application CN 1364803 A) alleges a new polypeptide-human CD63 antigen 56.87. The patent application CN1326962A alleges a new polypeptide-human CD63 antigen 14.63. The patent application CN1326951 A alleges a new polypeptide-human CD63 antigen 15.07. The patent application CN 1351054A alleges a new polypeptide-human CD63 antigen 1 1.1 1. These patents and patent applications identify CD63 antigens and antibodies but fail to disclose the isolated monoclonal antibody of the instant invention, or the utility of the isolated monoclonal antibody of the instant invention. 
 The gene encoding the ME491 polypeptide antigen was cloned and the sequence was received for publication on Feb 24, 1988 (Can Res 48:2955, 1988, June 1 ); the gene encoding CD63 was cloned and the sequence published in Feb 1991 ( JBC 266(5):3239-3245, 1991) and the publication clearly indicated the identity of ME491 with CD63. 
 WO2004041 170.89 (Sequence ID No.: 89, priority filing date: 29-JUN- 2004), WO2003068268-A2 (Sequence ID No.: 1 , priority filing date: 13-FEB- 
 2003(2003WO-EPOO 1461 ); other priority date: 14-FEB-2002(2002GB-00003480)), WO2003057160-A29 (Sequence ID No.: 40, priority filing date: 30-DEC-2002(2002WO- US041798); other priority date: 02-JAN-2002(2002US-0345444P)) all allege polypeptides that have 100 percent sequence homology to CD63. 

 WO2003016475-A2 (Sequence ID No.: 9787&12101 , priority filing date: 14-AUG-2002 (2002WO-US025765); other priority date: 14-AUG-2001 (2001US- 0312147P) allege polypeptides that have 100 percent sequence homology with 237 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. WO2003070902-A2 (Sequence ID No.:27, priority filing date: 18-FEB- 
 2003(2003WO-US004902); other priority date: 20-FEB-2002 (2002US-0358279P)) allege polypeptides that have 94 percent sequence homology with 224 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. 
 EP1033401 -A2 (Sequence ID No.: 4168&4913, priority filing date: 21 - FEB-2000 (2000EP-00200610); other priority date: 26-FEB- 1999 (99US-0122487P)) allege polypeptides that have 100 percent sequence homology with 205 amino acids and with 94 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63, respectively. 
 WO200257303-A2 (Human prey protein for Shigella ospG#26, priority filing date: 1 l-JAN-2002 (2002WO-EP000777); other priority date: 12-JAN-2001 (2001US-0261 130P)) allege polypeptides that have 100 percent sequence homology with 130 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. 
 WO200055180-A2 (Sequence ID No.: 756, priority filing date: 08-MAR- 2000(2000 WO-US005918); other priority date: 12-MAR-1999 (99US-0124270P)) allege polypeptides that have 99 percent sequence homology with 127 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. 
 WO200200677-A1 (Sequence ID No.:3203, priority filing date: 07-JUN- 2001 (2001 WO-USO 18569); other priority date: 07-JUN-2000 (2000US-0209467P)) allege polypeptides that have 97 percent sequence homology with 132 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. WO9966027-A1 (Large extracellular loop sequence from human CD63 protein, priority filing date: 15-JUN-1999 (99WO-US013480); other priority date: 15- JUN-1998(98US-0089226P) allege polypeptides that have 100 percent sequence homology with 99 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. 
 WO200270539-A2 (Sequence ID No.: 1207, priority filing date: 05-MAR- 2002 (2002WO-US005095); other priority date: 05-MAR-2001 (2001 US-00799451)) allege polypeptides that have 86 percent sequence homology with 102 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. 
 EP 1033401 -A2 (Sequence ID No.: 4169, 21 -FEB-2000(2000EP- 00200610); other priority date: 26-FEB- 1999(99US-0122487P) allege polypeptides that 

 have 100 percent sequence homology with 74 amino acids of 238 amino acids comprising CD63. 
 These patent applications identify polypeptides that have varying sequence homology to CD63 antigen. In most cases these application also allege antibodies and antibody derivatives to the corresponding polypepide and their homologs but fail to disclose the isolated monoclonal antibody of the instant invention, or the utility of the isolated monoclonal antibody of the instant invention for the treatment of human lung, prostate and colon cancer or other human cancers. Importantly, all the above applications were filed after the publication of the sequence of the polynucleotide encoding CD63. 
 SUMMARY OF THE iNVENTION 
 This application utilizes the method for producing patient specific anticancer antibodies as taught in the U.S. 6, 180,357 patent for isolating hybridoma cell lines which encode for cancerous disease modifying monoclonal antibodies. These antibodies can be made specifically for one tumor and thus make possible the customization of cancer therapy. Within the context of this application, anti-cancer antibodies having either cell-killing (cytotoxic) or cell-growth inhibiting (cytostatic) properties will hereafter be referred to as cytotoxic. These antibodies can be used in aid of staging and diagnosis of a cancer, and can be used to treat tumor metastases. These antibodies can also be used for the prevention of cancer by way of prophylactic treatment. Unlike antibodies generated according to traditional drug discovery paradigms, antibodies generated in this way may target molecules and pathways not previously shown to be integral to the growth and/or survival of malignant tissue. Furthermore, the binding affinities of these antibodies are suited to requirements for initiation of the cytotoxic events that may not be amenable to stronger affinity interactions. Also, it is within the purview of this invention to conjugate standard chemotherapeutic modalities, e.g. radionuclides, with the CDMAB of the instant invention, thereby focusing the use of said chemotherapeutics. The CDMAB can also be conjugated to toxins, cytotoxic moieties, enzymes e.g. biotin conjugated enzymes, or hematogenous cells, thereby forming an antibody conjugate. 
 The prospect of individualized anti-cancer treatment will bring about a change in the way a patient is managed. A likely clinical scenario is that a tumor sample is obtained at the time of presentation, and banked. From this sample, the tumor can be typed from a panel of pre-existing cancerous disease modifying antibodies. The patient will be conventionally staged but the available antibodies can be of use in further staging 

 the patient. The patient can be treated immediately with the existing antibodies, and a panel of antibodies specific to the tumor can be produced either using the methods outlined herein or through the use of phage display libraries in conjunction with the screening methods herein disclosed. All the antibodies generated will be added to the library of anti-cancer antibodies since there is a possibility that other tumors can bear some of the same epitopes as the one that is being treated. The antibodies produced according to this method may be useful to treat cancerous disease in any number of patients who have cancers that bind to these antibodies. 
 In addition to anti-cancer antibodies, the patient can elect to receive the currently recommended therapies as part of a multi-modal regimen of treatment. The fact that the antibodies isolated via the present methodology are relatively non-toxic to noncancerous cells allows for combinations of antibodies at high doses to be used, either alone, or in conjunction with conventional therapy. The high therapeutic index will also permit re-treatment on a short time scale that should decrease the likelihood of emergence of treatment resistant cells. 
 If the patient is refractory to the initial course of therapy or metastases develop, the process of generating specific antibodies to the tumor can be repeated for re- treatment. Furthermore, the anti-cancer antibodies can be conjugated to red blood cells obtained from that patient and re-infused for treatment of metastases. There have been few effective treatments for metastatic cancer and metastases usually portend a poor outcome resulting in death. However, metastatic cancers are usually well vascularized and the delivery of anti-cancer antibodies by red blood cells can have the effect of concentrating the antibodies at the site of the tumor. Even prior to metastases, most cancer cells are dependent on the host's blood supply for their survival and an anti-cancer antibody conjugated to red blood cells can be effective against in situ tumors as well. Alternatively, the antibodies may be conjugated to other hematogenous cells, e.g. lymphocytes, macrophages, monocytes, natural killer cells, etc. 
 There are five classes of antibodies and each is associated with a function that is conferred by its heavy chain. It is generally thought that cancer cell killing by naked antibodies are mediated either through antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity or complement dependent cytotoxicity. For example murine IgM and IgG2a antibodies can activate human complement by binding the C-I component of the complement system thereby activating the classical pathway of complement activation which can lead to tumor lysis. For human antibodies the most effective complement activating antibodies are 

 generally IgM and IgGl . Murine antibodies of the IgG2a and IgG3 isotype are effective at recruiting cytotoxic cells that have Fc receptors which will lead to cell killing by monocytes, macrophages, granulocytes and certain lymphocytes. Human antibodies of both the IgGl and IgG3 isotype mediate ADCC. Another possible mechanism of antibody mediated cancer killing may be through the use of antibodies that function to catalyze the hydrolysis of various chemical bonds in the cell membrane and its associated glycoproteins or glycolipids, so-called catalytic antibodies. 
 There are three additional mechanisms of antibody-mediated cancer cell killing. The first is the use of antibodies as a vaccine to induce the body to produce an immune response against the putative antigen that resides on the cancer cell. The second is the use of antibodies to target growth receptors and interfere with their function or to down regulate that receptor so that its function is effectively lost. The third is the effect of such antibodies on direct ligation of cell surface moieties that may lead to direct cell death, such as ligation of death receptors such as TRAIL Rl or TRAIL R2, or integrin molecules such as alpha V beta 3 and the like. 
 The clinical utility of a cancer drug is based on the benefit of the drug under an acceptable risk profile to the patient. In cancer therapy survival has generally been the most sought after benefit, however there are a number of other well-recognized benefits in addition to prolonging life. These other benefits, where treatment does not adversely affect survival, include symptom palliation, protection against adverse events, prolongation in time to recurrence or disease-free survival, and prolongation in time to progression. These criteria are generally accepted and regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (F.D.A.) approve drugs that produce these benefits (Hirschfeld et al. Critical Reviews in Oncology/Hematolgy 42: 137-143 2002). In addition to these criteria it is well recognized that there are other endpoints that may presage these types of benefits. In part, the accelerated approval process granted by the U.S. F.D.A. acknowledges that there are surrogates that will likely predict patient benefit. As of year- end (2003), there have been sixteen drugs approved under this process, and of these, four have gone on to full approval, i.e., follow-up studies have demonstrated direct patient benefit as predicted by surrogate endpoints. One important endpoint for determining drug effects in solid tumors is the assessment of tumor burden by measuring response to treatment (Therasse et al. Journal of the National Cancer Institute 92(3):205-216 2000). The clinical criteria (RECIST criteria) for such evaluation have been promulgated by 

 Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Working Group, a group of international experts in cancer. Drugs with a demonstrated effect on tumor burden, as shown by objective responses according to RECIST criteria, in comparison to the appropriate control group tend to, ultimately, produce direct patient benefit. In the pre-clinical setting tumor burden is generally more straightforward to assess and document. In that pre-clinical studies can be translated to the clinical setting, drugs that produce prolonged survival in pre-clinical models have the greatest anticipated clinical utility. Analogous to producing positive responses to clinical treatment, drugs that reduce tumor burden in the pre-clinical setting may also have significant direct impact on the disease. Although prolongation of survival is the most sought after clinical outcome from cancer drug treatment, there are other benefits that have clinical utility and it is clear that tumor burden reduction, which may correlate to a delay in disease progression, extended survival or both, can also lead to direct benefits and have clinical impact (Eckhardt et al. Developmental Therapeutics: Successes and Failures of Clinical Trial Designs of Targeted Compounds; ASCO Educational Book, 39 th  Annual Meeting, 2003, pages 209-219). 
 The present invention describes the development and use of AR75A105.8 identified by its effect in a cytotoxic assay and in an animal model of human cancer. This invention describes reagents that bind specifically to an epitope or epitopes present on the CD63 molecule, and that also have in vitro cytotoxic properties, as a naked antibody, against malignant tumor cells but not normal cells, and which also directly mediate, as a naked antibody, inhibition of tumor growth. A further advance is of the use of anti-cancer antibodies such as this to target tumors expressing cognate antigen markers to achieve tumor growth inhibition, and other positive endpoints of cancer treatment. 
 In all, this invention teaches the use of the AR75A 105.8 antigen as a target for a therapeutic agent, that when administered can reduce the tumor burden of a cancer expressing the antigen in a mammal. This invention also teaches the use of CDMAB (AR75A105.8), and their derivatives, and antigen binding fragments thereof, and cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligands thereof, to target their antigen to reduce the tumor burden of a cancer expressing the antigen in a mammal. Furthermore, this invention also teaches the use of detecting the AR75A105.8 antigen in cancerous cells that can be useful for the diagnosis, prediction of therapy, and prognosis of mammals bearing tumors that express this antigen. 
 Accordingly, it is an objective of the invention to utilize a method for producing cancerous disease modifying antibodies (CDMAB) raised against cancerous 

 cells derived from a particular individual, or one or more particular cancer cell lines, which CDMAB are cytotoxic with respect to cancer cells while simultaneously being relatively non-toxic to non-cancerous cells, in order to isolate hybridoma cell lines and the corresponding isolated monoclonal antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof for which said hybridoma cell lines are encoded. 
 It is an additional objective of the invention to teach cancerous disease modifying antibodies, ligands and antigen binding fragments thereof. 
 It is a further objective of the instant invention to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies whose cytotoxicity is mediated through antibody dependent cellular toxicity. 
 It is yet an additional objective of the instant invention to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies whose cytotoxicity is mediated through complement dependent cellular toxicity. 
 It is still a further objective of the instant invention to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies whose cytotoxicity is a function of their ability to catalyze hydrolysis of cellular chemical bonds. 
 A still further objective of the instant invention is to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies which are useful for in a binding assay for diagnosis, prognosis, and monitoring of cancer. Other objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description wherein are set forth, by way of illustration and example, certain embodiments of this invention. 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES 
 The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee. 
 Figure 1 compares the percentage cytotoxicity and binding levels of the hybridoma supernatants against cell lines A549, NCI-H23, NCI-H460, MB-231 and Hs888.Lu. Figure 2 is a comparison of AR75A105.8 versus positive and negative controls in a cytotoxicity assay. 

 Figure 3 represents binding of AR75A105.8 and the anti-EGFR control to cancer and normal cell lines. The data is tabulated to present the mean fluorescence intensity as a fold increase above isotype control. 
 Figure 4 includes representative FACS histograms of AR75A 105.8 and anti-EGFR antibodies directed against several cancer and non-cancer cell lines. 
 Figure 5 demonstrates the effect of AR75A105.8 on tumor growth in a prophylactic Lovo colon cancer model. The vertical dashed lines indicate the period during which the antibody was administered. Data points represent the mean +/- SEM. 
 Figure 6 demonstrates the effect of AR75A 105.8 on body weight in a prophylactic Lovo colon cancer model. Data points represent the mean +/- SEM. 
 Figure 7. Western blot of samples obtained from the total membrane fraction of MDA-MB-231 (lane 1) and BxPC-3 (lane 4) cell lines and from whole cell lysates of PC-3 (lane 2) and CCD-27sk (lane 3) cell lines. Blots were probed with the antibodies AR75A105.8 and 1A245.6. Figure 8. Western blot of immunocomplexes prepared by immunoprecipitation with 7BD-33-1 IA (lane 1 ), AR75A105.8 (lane 2) and IgG l isotype control (lane 3) from the total membrane fraction of the MDA-MB-231 cell line. Replicate blots were probed with the antibodies 7BD-33-1 IA (left panel), AR75A105.8 (center panel) and with the IgGl isotype control antibody (right panel). Figure 9. Western blot of human recombinant fusion construct GST-EC2 
 (CD63). Individual lanes of the blot were probed with 7BD-33-1 IA (lane 2), H460-22-1 (lane 3), 1A245.6 (lane 4), 7BDI-58 (lane 5), 7BDI-60 (lane 6), AR51A994.1 (lane 7), AR75A 105.8 (lane 8), and with negative controls H460-16-2 (anti-CD44; lane 1 ) and isotype control antibodies (lanes 9 and 10). 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 In general, the following words or phrases have the indicated definition when used in the summary, description, examples, and claims. 
 The term "antibody" is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers, for example, single monoclonal antibodies (including agonist, antagonist, and neutralizing antibodies, de-immunized, murine, chimerized or humanized antibodies), antibody compositions with polyepitopic specificity, single chain antibodies, immunoconjugates and fragments of antibodies (see below). 

 The term "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, being directed against a single antigenic site. Furthermore, in contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations which include different antibodies directed against different determinants (epitopes), each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their specificity, the monoclonal antibodies are advantageous in that they may be synthesized uncontaminated by other antibodies. The modifier "monoclonal" indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies, and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example, the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma (murine or human) method first described by Kohler et al., Nature, 256:495 (1975), or may be made by recombinant DNA methods (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. 
 No.4,816,567). The "monoclonal antibodies" may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al., Nature, 352:624-628 (1991) and Marks et al., J. MoI. Biol, 222:581 -597 (1991), for example. 
 "Antibody fragments" comprise a portion of an intact antibody, preferably comprising the antigen-binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include less than full length antibodies, Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , and Fv fragments; diabodies; linear antibodies; single-chain antibody molecules; single-chain antibodies, single domain antibody molecules, fusion proteins, recombinant proteins and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragment(s). An "intact" antibody is one which comprises an antigen-binding variable region as well as a light chain constant domain (C L ) and heavy chain constant domains, CH U C H 2 and C H 3. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains (e.g. human native sequence constant domains) or amino acid sequence variant thereof. Preferably, the intact antibody has one or more effector functions. Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains, intact antibodies can be assigned to different "classes". There are five-major classes of intact antibodies: IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, and several of these may be further divided into "subclasses" (isotypes), e.g., IgG l , IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, and IgA2. The heavy-chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of antibodies 

 are called α, δ, ε, γ, and μ, respectively. The subunit structures and three-dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known. 
 Antibody "effector functions" refer to those biological activities attributable to the Fc region (a native sequence Fc region or amino acid sequence variant Fc region) of an antibody. Examples of antibody effector functions include CI q binding; complement dependent cytotoxicity; Fc receptor binding; antibody-dependent cell- mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC); phagocytosis; down regulation of cell surface receptors (e.g. B cell receptor; BCR), etc. 
 "Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity" and "ADCC" refer to a cell-mediated reaction in which nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc receptors (FcRs) (e.g. Natural Killer (NK) cells, neutrophils, and macrophages) recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell. The primary cells for mediating ADCC, NK cells, express FcγRIII only, whereas monocytes express FcγRI, FcγRII and FcγRIII. FcR expression on hematopoietic cells in summarized is Table 3 on page 464 of Ravetch and Kinet, Aram. Rev. Immunol 9:457-92 (1991 ). To assess ADCC activity of a molecule of interest, an in vitro ADCC assay, such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,500,362 or 5,821,337 may be performed. Useful effector cells for such assays include peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and Natural Killer (NK) cells. Alternatively, or additionally, ADCC activity of the molecule of interest may be assessed in vivo, e.g., in a animal model such as that disclosed in Clynes et al. PNAS (USA) 95:652-656 (1998). 
 "Effector cells" are leukocytes which express one or more FcRs and perform effector functions. Preferably, the cells express at least FcγRIII and perform ADCC effector function. Examples of human leukocytes which mediate ADCC include peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), natural killer (NK) cells, monocytes, cytotoxic T cells and neutrophils; with PBMCs and NK cells being preferred. The effector cells may be isolated from a native source thereof, e.g. from blood or PBMCs as described herein. 
 The terms "Fc receptor" or "FcR" are used to describe a receptor that binds to the Fe region of an antibody. The preferred FcR is a native sequence human FcR. 
 Moreover, a preferred FcR is one which binds an IgG antibody (a gamma receptor) and includes receptors of the FcγRI, FcγRII, and Fcγ RIII subclasses, including allelic variants and alternatively spliced forms of these receptors. FcγRII receptors include FcγRIIA (an "activating receptor") and FcγRIIB (an "inhibiting receptor"), which have similar amino 

 acid sequences that differ primarily in the cytoplasmic domains thereof. Activating receptor FcγRIIA contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) in its cytoplasmic domain. Inhibiting receptor FcγRIIB contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine- based inhibition motif (ITIM) in its cytoplasmic domain, (see review M. in Daeron, Annu. Rev. Immunol. 15:203-234 (1997)). FcRs are reviewed in Ravetch and Kinet, Annu. Rev. Immunol 9:457-92 (1991); Capel et al, Immunomethods 4:25-34 (1994); and de Haas et al, J. Lab. Clin. Med. 126:330-41 (1995). Other FcRs, including those to be identified in the future, are encompassed by the term "FcR" herein. The term also includes the neonatal receptor, FcRn, which is responsible for the transfer of maternal IgGs to the fetus (Guyer et al, J. Immunol. 1 17:587 (1976) and Kim et al., Eur. J. Immunol. 24:2429 (1994)). 
 "Complement dependent cytotoxicity" or "CDC" refers to the ability of a molecule to lyse a target in the presence of complement. The complement activation pathway is initiated by the binding of the first component of the complement system (CI q) to a molecule (e.g. an antibody) complexed with a cognate antigen. To assess complement activation, a CDC assay, e.g. as described in Gazzano-Santoro et al, J. Immunol. Methods 202: 163 (1996), may be performed. 
 The term "variable" refers to the fact that certain portions of the variable domains differ extensively in sequence among antibodies and are used in the binding and specificity of each particular antibody for its particular antigen. However, the variability is not evenly distributed throughout the variable domains of antibodies. It is concentrated in three segments called hypervariable regions both in the light chain and the heavy chain variable domains. The more highly conserved portions of variable domains are called the framework regions (FRs). The variable domains of native heavy and light chains each comprise four FRs, largely adopting a β-sheet configuration, connected by three hypervariable regions, which form loops connecting, and in some cases forming part of, the >sheet structure. The hypervariable regions in each chain are held together in close proximity by the FRs and, with the hypervariable regions from the other chain, contribute to the formation of the antigen-binding site of antibodies (see Kabat et al, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md. (1991)). The constant domains are not involved directly in binding an antibody to an antigen, but exhibit various effector functions, such as participation of the antibody in antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). 
 The term "hypervariable region" when used herein refers to the amino acid residues of an antibody which are responsible for antigen-binding. The hypervariable 

 region generally comprises amino acid residues from a "complementarity determining region" or "CDR" (e.g. residues 24-34 (Ll), 50-56 (L2) and 89-97 (L3) in the light chain variable domain and 31 -35 (Hl), 50-65 (H2) and 95-102 (H3) in the heavy chain variable domain; Kabat el al., Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md. (1991)) and/or those residues from a "hypervariable loop" (e.g. residues 2632 (L l ), 50-52 (L2) and 91 -96 (L3) in the light chain variable domain and 26-32 (Hl ), 53-55 (H2) and 96-101 (H3) in the heavy chain variable domain; Chothia and Lesk J. MoI. Biol. 196:901 -917 (1987)). "Framework Region" or "FR" residues are those variable domain residues other than the hypervariable region residues as herein defined. Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical antigen-binding fragments, called "Fab" fragments, each with a single antigen-binding site, and a residual "Fc" fragment, whose name reflects its ability to crystallize readily. Pepsin treatment yields an F(ab') 2  fragment that has two antigen-binding sites and is still capable of cross-linking antigen. "Fv" is the minimum antibody fragment which contains a complete antigen-recognition and antigen-binding site. This region consists of a dimer of one heavy chain and one light chain variable domain in tight, non-covalent association. It is in this configuration that the three hypervariable regions of each variable domain interact to define an antigen-binding site on the surface of the V H -V L  dimer. Collectively, the six hypervariable regions confer antigen-binding specificity to the antibody. However, even a single variable domain (or half of an Fv comprising only three hypervariable regions specific for an antigen) has the ability to recognize and bind antigen, although at a lower affinity than the entire binding site. The Fab fragment also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the first constant domain (CH I) of the heavy chain. Fab' fragments differ from Fab fragments by the addition of a few residues at the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain CH 1 domain including one or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab'-SH is the designation herein for Fab' in which the cysteine residue(s) of the constant domains bear at least one free thiol group. F(ab') 2  antibody fragments originally were produced as pairs of Fab' fragments which have hinge cysteines between them. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known. 
 The "light chains" of antibodies from any vertebrate species can be assigned to one of two clearly distinct types, called kappa (K) and lambda (λ), based on the amino acid sequences of their constant domains. 

 "Single-chain Fv" or "scFv" antibody fragments comprise the V H  and V L  domains of antibody, wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. Preferably, the Fv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the V H  and V L  domains which enables the scFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of scFv see Plϋckthun in The Pharmacology of Monoclonal Antibodies, vol. 1 13, Rosenburg and Moore eds., Springer- Verlag, New York, pp. 269-315 (1994). 
 The term "diabodies" refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen- binding sites, which fragments comprise a variable heavy domain (V H ) connected to a variable light domain (Vi ) in the same polypeptide chain (V H -V L ). By using a linker that is too short to allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain, the domains are forced to pair with the complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen- binding sites. Diabodies are described more fully in, for example, EP 404,097; WO 93/1 1 161 ; and Hollinger et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. ScL USA, 90:6444-6448 (1993). 
 An "isolated" antibody is one which has been identified and separated and/or recovered from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment are materials which would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody, and may include enzymes, hormones, and other protcinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least one component of the antibody's natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily, however, isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step. 
 An antibody "which binds" an antigen of interest, e.g. CD63 antigenic moiety, is one capable of binding that antigen with sufficient affinity such that the antibody is useful as a therapeutic or diagnostic agent in targeting a cell expressing the antigen. Where the antibody is one which binds CD63 antigenic moiety it will usually preferentially bind CD63 antigenic moiety as opposed to other receptors, and does not include incidental binding such as non-specific Fc contact, or binding to post-translational modifications common to other antigens and may be one which does not significantly cross-react with other proteins. Methods, for the detection of an antibody that binds an antigen of interest, are well known in the art and can include but are not limited to assays such as FACS, cell ELISA and Western blot. 
 As used herein, the expressions "cell", "cell line", and "cell culture" are used interchangeably, and all such designations include progeny. It is also understood that all progeny may not be precisely identical in DNA content, due to deliberate or inadvertent 

 mutations. Mutant progeny that have the same function or biological activity as screened for in the originally transformed cell are included. It will be clear from the context where distinct designations are intended. 
 "Treatment" refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures, wherein the object is to prevent or slow down (lessen) the targeted pathologic condition or disorder. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disorder as well as those prone to have the disorder or those in whom the disorder is to be prevented. Hence, the mammal to be treated herein may have been diagnosed as having the disorder or may be predisposed or susceptible to the disorder. The terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth or death. Examples of cancer include, but are not limited to, carcinoma, lymphoma, blastoma, sarcoma, and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer (e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer), lung cancer including small-cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung, cancer of the peritoneum, hepatocellular cancer, gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer, pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, liver cancer, bladder cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colon cancer, rectal cancer, colorectal cancer, endometrial or uterine carcinoma, salivary gland carcinoma, kidney or renal cancer, prostate cancer, vulval cancer, thyroid cancer, hepatic carcinoma, anal carcinoma, penile carcinoma, as well as head and neck cancer. 
 A "chemotherapeutic agent" is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide (CYTOXAN™); alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan, improsulfan and piposulfan; aziridines such as benzodopa, carboquone, meturedopa, and uredopa; ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine, triethylenemelamine, trietylenephosphoramide, triethylenethiophosphaoramide and trimethylolomelamine; nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil, chlornaphazine, cholophosphamide, estramustine, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine, mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride, melphalan, novembichin, phenesterine, prednimustine, trofosfamide, uracil mustard; nitrosureas such as carmustine, chlorozotocin, fotemustine, lomustine, nimustine, ranimustine; antibiotics such as aclacinomysins, actinomycin, authramycin, azaserine, bleomycins, cactinomycin, calicheamicin, carabicin, carnomycin, carzinophilin, 

 chromomycins, dactinomycin, daunorubicin, detorubicin, 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine, doxorubicin, epirubicin, esorubicin, idarubicin, marcellomycin, mitomycins, mycophenolic acid, nogalamycin, olivomycins, peplomycin, potfiromycin, puromycin, quelamycin, rodorubicin, streptonigrin, streptozocin, tubercidin, ubenimex, zinostatin, zorubicin; anti-metabolites such as methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU); folic acid analogues such as denopterin, methotrexate, pteropterin, trimetrexate; purine analogs such as fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, thiamiprine, thioguanine; pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine, azacitidine, 6-azauridine, carmofur, cytarabine, dideoxyuridine, doxifluridine, enocitabine, floxuridine, 5-FU; androgens such as calusterone, dromostanolone propionate, epitiostanol, mepitiostane, testolactone; anti-adrenals such as aminoglutethimide, mitotane, trilostane; folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid; aceglatone; aldophosphamide glycoside; aminolevulinic acid; amsacrine; bestrabucil; bisantrene; edatraxate; defofamine; demecolcine; diaziquone; elformithine; elliptinium acetate; etoglucid; gallium nitrate; hydroxyurea; lentinan; lonidamine; mitoguazone; mitoxantrone; mopidamol; nitracrine; pentostatin; phenamet; pirarubicin; podophyllinic acid; 2-ethylhydrazide; procarbazine; PSK®; razoxane; sizofiran; spirogermanium; tenuazonic acid; triaziquone; 2,2',2"-trichlorotriethylamine; urethan; vindesine; dacarbazine; mannomustine; mitobronitol; mitolactol; pipobroman; gacytosine; arabinoside ("Ara-C"); cyclophosphamide; thiotepa; taxanes, e.g. paclitaxel (TAXOL®, Bristol-Myers Squibb Oncology, Princeton, NJ.) and docetaxel (TAXOTERE®, Aventis, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Antony, France); chlorambucil; gemcitabine; 6-thioguanine; mercaptopurine; methotrexate; platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin; vinblastine; platinum; etoposide (VP- 16); ifosfamide; mitomycin C; mitoxantrone; vincristine; vinorelbine; navelbine; novantrone; teniposide; daunomycin; aminopterin; xeloda; ibandronate; CPT-1 1 ; topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000; difluoromethylornithine (DMFO); retinoic acid; esperamicins; capecitabine; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids or derivatives of any of the above. Also included in this definition are anti-hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti-estrogens including for example tamoxifen, raloxifene, aromatase inhibiting 4(5)-imidazoles, 4- hydroxytamoxifen, trioxifene, keoxifene, LYl 17018, onapristone, and toremifene 
 (Fareston); and anti-androgens such as flutamide, nilutamide, bicalutamide, leuprolide, and goserelin; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids or derivatives of any of the above. 

 "Mammal" for purposes of treatment refers to any animal classified as a mammal, including humans, mice, SCID or nude mice or strains of mice, domestic and farm animals, and zoo, sports, or pet animals, such as sheep, dogs, horses, cats, cows, etc. Preferably, the mammal herein is human. "Oligonucleotides" are short-length, single- or double-stranded polydeoxynucleotides that are chemically synthesized by known methods (such as phosphotriester, phosphite, or phosphoramidite chemistry, using solid phase techniques such as described in EP 266,032, published 4 May 1988, or via deoxynucleoside H- phosphonate intermediates as described by Froehler et al., Nucl. Acids Res., 14:5399-5407, 1986. They are then purified on polyacrylamide gels. 
 Unless indicated otherwise, the term "CD63 antigenic moiety" when used herein refers to the Type III membrane protein of the tetraspanin family also referred to as melanoma 1 antigen, ocular melanoma-associated antigen, melanoma associated antigen ME491, lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 3, granulophysin, melanoma- associated antigen MLA 1. 
 "Chimeric" antibodies are immunoglobulins in which a portion of the heavy and/or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of the chain(s) is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass, as well as fragments of such antibodies, so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity (U.S. Pat. No. 4,816,567 and Morrison et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. ScL USA, 81 :6851-6855 (1984)). 
 "Humanized" forms of non-human (e.g. murine) antibodies are specific chimeric immunoglobulins, immunoglobulin chains or fragments thereof (such as Fv, Fab, Fab', F(ab)2 or other antigen-binding subsequences of antibodies) which contain minimal sequence derived from non-human immunoglobulin. For the most part, humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins (recipient antibody) in which residues from the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of the recipient antibody are replaced by residues from the CDRs of a non-human species (donor antibody) such as mouse, rat or rabbit having the desired specificity, affinity and capacity. In some instances, Fv framework region (FR) residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non-human FR residues. Furthermore, the humanized antibody may comprise residues which are found neither in the recipient antibody nor in the imported 

 CDR or FR sequences. These modifications are made to further refine and optimize antibody performance. In general, the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one, and typically two, variable domains, in which all or substantially all of the CDR regions correspond to those of a non-human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FR residues are those of a human immunoglobulin consensus sequence. The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region (Fc), typically that of a human immunoglobulin. 
 "De-immunized" antibodies are immunoglobulins that are non- immunogenic, or less immunogenic, to a given species. De- immunization can be achieved through structural alterations to the antibody. Any de- immunization technique known to those skilled in the art can be employed. One suitable technique for de- immunizing antibodies is described, for example, in WO 00/34317 published June 15, 2000. 
 "Homology" is defined as the percentage of residues in the amino acid sequence variant that are identical after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the maximum percent homology. Methods and computer programs for the alignment are well known in the art. 
 An antibody which induces "apoptosis" is one which induces programmed cell, death as determined by binding of annexin V, fragmentation of DNA, cell shrinkage, dilation of endoplasmic reticulum, cell fragmentation, and/or formation of membrane vesicles (called apoptotic bodies). 
 Throughout the instant specification, hybridoma cell lines, as well as the isolated monoclonal antibodies which are produced therefrom, are alternatively referred to by their internal designation, AR75A105.8 or Depository Designation, IDAC 280306-03. 
 As used herein "antibody-ligand" includes a moiety which exhibits binding specificity for a target antigen, and which may be an intact antibody molecule, antibody fragments, and any molecule having at least an antigen-binding region or portion thereof (i.e., the variable portion of an antibody molecule), e.g., an Fv molecule, Fab molecule, Fab' molecule, F(ab').sub.2 molecule, a bispecific antibody, a fusion protein, or any genetically engineered molecule which specifically recognizes and binds the antigen bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line designated as IDAC 280306-03 ( the IDAC 280306-03 antigen). 
 As used herein "cancerous disease modifiying antibodies" (CDMAB) refers to monoclonal antibodies which modify the cancerous disease process in a manner which 

 is beneficial to the patient, for example by reducing tumor burden or prolonging survival of tumor bearing individuals, and antibody-ligands thereof. 
 As used herein "antigen-binding region" means a portion of the molecule which recognizes the target antigen. As used herein "competitively inhibits" means being able to recognize and bind a determinant site to which the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line designated as IDAC 280306-03, (the IDAC 280306-03 antibody) is directed using conventional reciprocal antibody competition assays. (Belanger L., Sylvestre C. and Dufour D. (1973), Enzyme linked immunoassay for alpha fetoprotein by competitive and sandwich procedures. Clinica Chimica Acta 48, 15). 
 As used herein "target antigen" is the IDAC 280306-03 antigen or portions thereof. 
 As used herein, an "immunoconjugate" means any molecule or CDMAB such as an antibody chemically or biologically linked to a cytotoxin, a radioactive agent, enzyme, toxin, an anti-tumor drug or a therapeutic agent. The antibody or CDMAB may be linked to the cytotoxin, radioactive agent, anti-tumor drug or therapeutic agent at any location along the molecule so long as it is able to bind its target. Examples of immunoconjugates include antibody toxin chemical conjugates and antibody-toxin fusion proteins. As used herein, a "fusion protein" means any chimeric protein wherein an antigen binding region is connected to a biologically active molecule, e.g., toxin, enzyme, or protein drug. 
 In order that the invention herein described may be more fully understood, the following description is set forth. The present invention provides CDMABs (i.e., IDAC 280306-03 CDMAB) which specifically recognize and bind the IDAC 280306-03 antigen. 
 The CDMAB of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 280306-03 may be in any form as long as it has an antigen-binding region which competitively inhibits the immunospecific binding of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma IDAC 280306-03 to its target antigen. Thus, any recombinant proteins (e.g., fusion proteins wherein the antibody is combined with a second protein such as a lymphokine or a tumor inhibitory growth factor) having the same binding specificity as the IDAC 280306-03 antibody fall within the scope of this invention. 

 In one embodiment of the invention, the CDMAB is the IDAC 280306-03 antibody. 
 In other embodiments, the CDMAB is an antigen binding fragment which may be a Fv molecule (such as a single chain Fv molecule), a Fab molecule, a Fab' molecule, a F(ab')2 molecule, a fusion protein, a bispecific antibody, a heteroantibody or any recombinant molecule having the antigen-binding region of the IDAC 280306-03 antibody. The CDMAB of the invention is directed to the epitope to which the IDAC 280306-03 monoclonal antibody is directed. 
 The CDMAB of the invention may be modified, i.e., by amino acid modifications within the molecule, so as to produce derivative molecules. Chemical modification may also be possible. 
 Derivative molecules would retain the functional property of the polypeptide, namely, the molecule having such substitutions will still permit the binding of the polypeptide to the IDAC 280306-03 antigen or portions thereof. These amino acid substitutions include, but are not necessarily limited to, amino acid substitutions known in the art as "conservative". 
 For example, it is a well-established principle of protein chemistry that certain amino acid substitutions, entitled "conservative amino acid substitutions," can frequently be made in a protein without altering either the conformation or the function of the protein. 
 Such changes include substituting any of isoleucine (I), valine (V), and leucine (L) for any other of these hydrophobic amino acids; aspartic acid (D) for glutamic acid (E) and vice versa; glutamine (Q) for asparagine (N) and vice versa; and serine (S) for threonine (T) and vice versa. Other substitutions can also be considered conservative, depending on the environment of the particular amino acid and its role in the three- dimensional structure of the protein. For example, glycine (G) and alanine (A) can frequently be interchangeable, as can alanine and valine (V). Methionine (M), which is relatively hydrophobic, can frequently be interchanged with leucine and isoleucine, and sometimes with valine. Lysine (K) and arginine (R) are frequently interchangeable in locations in which the significant feature of the amino acid residue is its charge and the differing pK's of these two amino acid residues are not significant. Still other changes can be considered "conservative" in particular environments. 
 Given an antibody, an individual ordinarily skilled in the art can generate a competitively inhibiting CDMAB, for example a competing antibody, which is one that 

 recognizes the same epitope (Belanger et al., 1973). One method could entail immunizing with an immunogen that expresses the antigen recognized by the antibody. The sample may include but is not limited to tissue, isolated protein(s) or cell line(s). Resulting hybridomas could be screened using a competing assay, which is one that identifies antibodies that inhibit the binding of the test antibody, such as ELISA, FACS or immunoprecipiation. Another method could make use of phage display libraries and panning for antibodies that recognize said antigen (Rubinstein et al., 2003). In either case, hybridomas would be selected based on their ability to out-compete the binding of the original antibody to its target antigen. Such hybridomas would therefore possess the characteristic of recognizing the same antigen as the original antibody and more specifically would recognize the same epitope. 
 EXAMPLE 1 
 Hybridoma Production - Hybridoma Cell Line AR75A105.8 
 The hybridoma cell line AR75A105.8 was deposited, in accordance with the Budapest Treaty, with the International Depository Authority of Canada (IDAC), Bureau of Microbiology, Health Canada, 1015 Arlington Street, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, R3E 3R2, on March 28, 2006, under Accession Number 280306-03. In accordance with 37 CFR 1.808, the depositors assure that all restrictions imposed on the availability to the public of the deposited materials will be irrevocably removed upon the granting of a patent. The deposit will be replaced if the depository cannot dispense viable samples. 
 To produce the hybridoma that produces the anti-cancer antibody AR75A105.8, a single cell suspension of frozen human lung clear cell carcinoma tumor tissue (Genomics Collaborative, Cambridge, MA) was prepared in PBS. IMMUNEASY™ (Qiagen, Venlo, Netherlands) adjuvant was prepared for use by gentle mixing. Five to seven week old BALB/c mice were immunized by injecting subcutaneously, 2 million cells in 50 microliters of the antigen-adjuvant. Recently prepared antigen-adjuvant was used to boost the immunized mice intraperitoneal Iy, 2 and 5 weeks after the initial immunization, with 2 million cells in 50 microliters. A spleen was used for fusion three days after the last immunization. The hybridomas were prepared by fusing the isolated splenocytes with NSO-I myeloma partners. The supernatants from the fusions were tested from subclones of the hybridomas. 

 To determine whether the antibodies secreted by the hybridoma cells are of the IgG or IgM isotype, an ELISA assay was employed. 100 microliters/well of goat anti- mouse IgG + IgM (H+L) at a concentration of 2.4 micrograms/mL in coating buffer (0.1 M carbonate/bicarbonate buffer, pH 9.2-9.6) at 4 0 C was added to the ELISA plates overnight. The plates were washed thrice in washing buffer (PBS + 0.05 percent Tween). 100 microliters/well blocking buffer (5 percent milk in wash buffer) was added to the plate for 1 hour at room temperature and then washed thrice in washing buffer. 100 microliters/well of hybridoma supernatant was added and the plate incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed thrice with washing buffer and 1/100,000 dilution of either goat anti-mouse IgG or IgM horseradish peroxidase conjugate (diluted in PBS containing 1 percent milk), 100 microliters/well, was added. After incubating the plate for 1 hour at room temperature the plate was washed thrice with washing buffer. 100 microliters/well of TMB solution was incubated for 1 -3 minutes at room temperature. The color reaction was terminated by adding 50 microliters/well 2M H 2 SO 4  and the plate was read at 450 nm with a Perkin-Elmer HTS7000 plate reader. As indicated in Figure 1 , the AR75A105.8 hybridoma secreted primarily antibodies of the IgG isotype. 
 To determine the subclass of antibody secreted by the hybridoma cells, an isotyping experiment was performed using a Mouse Monoclonal Antibody Isotyping Kit (HyCuIt Biotechnology, Frontstraat, Netherlands). 500 microliters of buffer solution was added to the test strip containing rat anti-mouse subclass specific antibodies. 500 microliters of hybridoma supernatant was added to the test tube, and submerged by gentle agitation. Captured mouse immunoglobulins were detected directly by a second rat monoclonal antibody which is coupled to colloid particles. The combination of these two proteins creates a visual signal used to analyse the isotype. The anti-cancer antibody AR75A105.8 is of the IgGl , kappa isotype. 
 After one round of limiting dilution, hybridoma supernatants were tested for antibodies that bound to target cells in a cell ELISA assay. Three human lung cancer cell lines, 1 human breast cancer cell line and 1 human normal lung cell line were tested: A549, NCI-H23, NCI-H460-23, MDA-MB-231 (MB-231 ) and Hs888.Lu respectively. The plated cells were fixed prior to use. The plates were washed thrice with PBS containing MgCl 2  and CaCl 2  at room temperature. 100 microliters of 2 percent paraformaldehyde diluted in PBS was added to each well for 10 minutes at room temperature and then discarded. The plates were again washed with PBS containing MgCl 2  and CaCl 2  three times at room temperature. Blocking was done with 100 

 micro liters/well of 5 percent milk in wash buffer (PBS + 0.05 percent Tween) for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed thrice with wash buffer and the hybridoma supernatant was added at 100 microliters/well for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed 3 times with wash buffer and 100 microliters/well of 1/25,000 dilution of goat anti-mouse IgG antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (diluted in PBS containing 1 percent milk) was added. After 1 hour incubation at room temperature the plates were washed 3 times with wash buffer and 100 microliter/well of TMB substrate was incubated for 1 -3 minutes at room temperature. The reaction was terminated with 50 microliters/well 2M H 2 SO 4  and the plate read at 450 nm with a Perkin-Elmer HTS7000 plate reader. The results as tabulated in Figure 1 were expressed as the number of folds above background compared to an in-house IgG isotype control that has previously been shown not to bind to the cell lines tested. The antibodies from the hybridoma AR75A105.8 showed detectable binding to all of the cell lines tested. 
 In conjunction with testing for antibody binding, the cytotoxic effect of the hybridoma supernatants was tested in the cell lines: A549, NCI-H23, NCI-H460-23, MDA-MB-231 (MB-231) and Hs888.Lu. Calcein AM was obtained from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR). The assays were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions with the changes outlined below. Cells were plated before the assay at the predetermined appropriate density. After 2 days, 100 microliters of supernatant from the hybridoma microtitre plates were transferred to the cell plates and incubated in a 5 percent CO 2  incubator for 5 days. The wells that served as the positive controls were aspirated until empty and 100 microliters of sodium azide (NaN 3 ) or cycloheximide was added. After 5 days of treatment, the plates were then emptied by inverting and blotting dry. Room temperature DPBS (Dulbecco's phosphate buffered saline) containing MgCl 2  and CaCl 2  was dispensed into each well from a multichannel squeeze bottle, tapped 3 times, emptied by inversion and then blotted dry. 50 microliters of the fluorescent calcein dye diluted in DPBS containing MgCl 2  and CaCl 2  was added to each well and incubated at 37 0 C in a 5 percent CO 2  incubator for 30 minutes. The plates were read in a Perkin-Elmer HTS7000 fluorescence plate reader and the data was analyzed in Microsoft Excel. The results are tabulated in Figure 1. Supernatant from the AR75A 105.8 hybridoma produced specific cytotoxicity of 19 percent on the A549 cells. This was 63 and 33 percent of the cytotoxicity obtained with the positive controls sodium azide and cycloheximide, respectively. Specific cytotoxicity of 1 1 percent was also observed on NCI-H23 cells. This was 27 and 55 percent of the cytotoxicity obtained with the positive controls sodium 

 azide and cycloheximide, respectively. In addition, specific cytotoxicity of 17 percent was observed on NCI-H460-23 cells. This was 26 and 106 percent of the cytotoxicity obtained with the positive controls sodium azide and cycloheximide, respectively. Results from Figure 1 demonstrated that the cytotoxic effects of AR75A105.8 were not proportional to the binding levels on the cancer cell types. There was detectable binding on all cell lines tested and cytotoxicity associated with A549, NCI-H23 and NCI-H460-23 cells. As tabulated in Figure 1 , AR75A105.8 did not produce cytotoxicity in the Hs888.Lu normal human lung cell line. The known non-specific cytotoxic agents cycloheximide and NaN3 generally produced cytotoxicity as expected. 
 EXAMPLE 2 
 In vitro Cytotoxicity and Binding 
 AR75A 105.8 monoclonal antibody was produced by culturing the hybridoma in CL-1000 flasks (BD Biosciences, Oakville, ON) with collections and reseeding occurring twice/week. Standard antibody purification procedures with Protein G Sepharose 4 Fast Flow (Amersham Biosciences, Baie d'Urfe, QC) were followed. It is within the scope of this invention to utilize monoclonal antibodies that are de-immunized, humanized, chimerized or murine. 
 AR75A 105.8 was compared to two positive controls (anti-EGFR antibody (C225, IgGl, kappa, 5 micrograms/mL, Cedarlane, Hornby, ON and cycloheximide (CHX, 0.5 micromolar, Sigma, Oakville, ON)) and a negative isotype control (1B7.1 1 (anti-TNP), purified in-house) in a cytotoxicity assay (Figure 2). Prostate (PC-3) and breast (MB-231) cancer, and non-cancer cell lines from skin (CCD-27sk) and lung (Hs888.Lu) were tested. All cells were obtained from the ATCC, Manassas, VA. Calcein AM was obtained from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR). The assays were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions with the changes outlined below. Cells were plated before the assay at the predetermined appropriate density. After 2 days, 100 microliters of purified antibody or controls were diluted into media, and then transferred to the cell plates and incubated in a 5 percent CO 2  incubator for 5 days. The plates were then emptied by inverting and blotted dry. Room temperature DPBS containing MgCl 2  and CaCl 2  was dispensed into each well from a multichannel squeeze bottle, tapped 3 times, emptied by inversion and then blotted dry. 50 microliters of the fluorescent calcein dye diluted in DPBS containing MgCl 2  and CaCl 2  was added to each well and incubated at 37 0 C in a 5 percent CO 2,  incubator for 30 minutes. The plates were read in a Perkin-Elmer 

 HTS7000 fluorescence plate reader and the data was analyzed in Microsoft Excel and the results were tabulated in Figure 2. Each antibody received a score between 5 and 50 based on the average cytotoxicity observed in four experiments tested in triplicate, and a score between 25 and 100 based on the variability observed between assays. The sum of these two scores (the cytotoxicity score) is presented in Figure 2. A cytotoxicity score of greater than or equal to 55 was considered to be positive on the cell line tested. The AR75A105.8 antibody produced specific cytotoxicity in the PC-3 prostate cancer cell line relative to both isotype and buffer negative controls. AR75A 105.8 did not produce a positive cytotoxicity score in the MB-231 breast cancer cell type. This is consistent with data from the hybridoma supernatant of the AR75A105.8 clone, which also did not detect specific cytotoxicity against the MB-231 cancer cell line (see Example 1 ). Importantly, AR75A 105.8 did not produce significant cytotoxicity, compared to negative controls, against non-cancer cell lines such as CCD-27sk or Hs888.Lu, suggesting that the antibody has specific cytotoxic effects towards cancer cells. The cytotoxicity score for 1B7.1 1 was an average from multiple experiments. The chemical cytotoxic agent induced its expected cytotoxicity against multiple cell lines. 
 Binding of AR75A105.8 to prostate (PC-3) and breast (MB-231) cancer, and non-cancer cell lines from skin (CCD-27sk) and lung (Hs888.Lu) was assessed by flow cytometry (FACS). Cells were prepared for FACS by initially washing the cell monolayer with DPBS (without Ca ++  and Mg ++ ). Cell dissociation buffer (Invitrogen, 
 Burlington, ON) was then used to dislodge the cells from their cell culture plates at 37°C. After centrifugation and collection, the cells were resuspended in DPBS containing MgCl 2,  CaCl 2  and 2 percent fetal bovine serum at 4°C (staining media) and counted, aliquoted to appropriate cell density, spun down to pellet the cells and resuspended in staining media at 4°C in the presence of the test antibody (AR75A105.8) or control antibodies (isotype control, anti-EGFR). Isotype control and the test antibody were assessed at 20 micrograms/mL whereas anti-EGFR was assessed at 5 micrograms/mL on ice for 30 minutes. Prior to the addition of Alexa Fluor 546-conjugated secondary antibody the cells were washed once with staining media. The Alexa Fluor 546-conjugated antibody in staining media was then added for 30 minutes at 4°C. The cells were then washed for the final time and resuspended in fixing media (staining media containing 1.5 percent paraformaldehyde). Flow cytometric acquisition of the cells was assessed by running samples on a FACSarray™ using the FACSarray™ System Software (BD Biosciences, 

 Oakville, ON). The forward (FSC) and side scatter (SSC) of the cells were set by adjusting the voltage and amplitude gains on the FSC and SSC detectors. The detectors for the fluorescence (Alexa-546) channel was adjusted by running unstained cells such that cells had a uniform peak with a median fluorescent intensity of approximately 1-5 units. For each sample, approximately 10,000 gated events (stained fixed cells) were acquired for analysis and the results are presented in Figure 3. 
 Figure 3 presents the mean fluorescence intensity fold increase above isotype control. Representative histograms of AR75A105.8 antibodies were compiled for Figure 4. AR75A105.8 showed weak binding to the normal skin cell line CCD-27sk (2.2 fold). AR75A105.8 showed stronger binding to the prostate cancer cell line PC-3 (15.5), the breast cancer cell line MB-231 (9.9) and to the normal lung cell line Hs888.Lu (5.4 fold). These data demonstrate that AR75A 105.8 exhibited functional specificity in that although there was clear binding to the cancer cell types tested, there was only associated cytotoxicity with the prostate cancer cell line PC-3. This was also further evidence that binding was not necessarily predictive of the outcome of antibody ligation of its cognate antigen, and was a non-obvious finding. This suggested that the context of antibody ligation in different cells determined cytotoxicity, rather than just antibody binding alone. 
 EXAMPLE 3 
 In vivo Tumor Experiments with Lovo Cells With reference to Figures 5 and 6, 4 to 6 week old female SCID mice were implanted with 1 million human colon cancer cells (Lovo) in 100 microlitres saline injected subcutaneously in the scruff of the neck. The mice were randomly divided into 2 treatment groups of 6. On the day after implantation, 20 mg/kg of AR75A105.8 test antibody or buffer control was administered intraperitoneal Iy to each cohort in a volume of 300 microlitres after dilution from the stock concentration with a diluent that contained 2.7 itiM KCl, 1 mM KH 2 PO 4 , 137 mM NaCl and 20 mM Na 2 HPO 4 . The antibody and control samples were then administered once per week for the duration of the study in the same fashion. Tumor growth was measured about every seventh day with calipers. The study was completed after 8 injections of antibody. Body weights of the animals were recorded once per week for the duration of the study. At the end of the study all animals were euthanized according to CCAC guidelines. 
 AR75A 105.8 reduced tumor growth in the highly aggressive Lovo in vivo prophylactic model of human colon cancer. On day 56 post-implantation, 6 days after the 

 last treatment dose, the mean tumor volume in the AR75A 105.8 treated group was 45 percent lower than the tumor volume in the buffer control-treated group (Figure 5). This effect was not statistically significant due to the small number of animals within each group. At day 48, after 7 doses of antibody and while the animals were still in the treatment period, treatment with AR75A 105.8 resulted in a significant tumor growth inhibition of 62 percent (p=0.0239). 
 There were no clinical signs of toxicity throughout the study. Body weight measured at weekly intervals was a surrogate for well-being and failure to thrive. The mean body weight of the control group did not change significantly over the duration of the study (Figure 6). However, the mean body weight of the AR75A 105.8 treated group was significantly higher than the control group at the end of the study (Day 56; p=0.024). This observation may be related to the decreased tumor volume observed in the AR75A105.8-treated group. 
 In summary, AR75A 105.8 was well-tolerated and decreased the tumor burden in this human colon cancer xenograft model. 
 EXAMPLE 4 
 Determination of cross-reactivity between AR75A 105.8 and the anti-CD63 antibody 7BD- 
 33-1 1A 
 Results from Western blots of total membrane fractions and of whole cell lysates, when probed with the monoclonal antibody AR75A105.8 revealed a strong similarity with that obtained with another anti-CD63 monoclonal antibody 1 A245.6 (Figure 7). In order to determine whether the former antibody cross-reacts with CD63, it was used as a probe on a Western blot of immunoprecipitate complexes obtained with either 7BD-33-1 1 A anti-CD63 antibody or AR75A105.8 from the total membrane fraction of human breast cancer cells (MBD-MB-231). 
 Briefly, three replicate samples, each containing 300 micrograms of MDA- MB-231 total membrane fraction (0.5 mg/mL final protein concentration in 600 microliters IX RIPA buffer) were incubated with 15 microliters of 7BD-33-1 IA, AR75A 105.8 or IgG l isotype control-conjugated protein G Sepharose beads for 2 hours at 4  0 C. After washing, the beads were boiled in IX non-reducing SDS-PAGE sample buffer and the samples were analyzed by electrophoresis on a 10 percent polyacrylamide gel. After electrotransfer onto a PVDF membrane the blots were probed with the antibodies 7BD-33-1 IA, AR75A 105.8 and 1 B7.1 1 (IgG l isotype control) according to standard 

 Western blot procedure. All primary antibodies were used at a concentration of 5 micrograms/mL. The image of the resulting blots (Figure 8) shows that both 7BD-33-1 IA and AR75A105.8, cross-react with the antigen immunoprecipitated by either of them. Therefore the antibody AR75A 105.8 cross-reacted with CD63 that was immunoprecipitated by a known anti-CD63 antibody. 
 To further confirm the cross-reactivity between the AR75A 105.8 and human CD63, the antibody was used as a probe on a Western blot of E. coli-expressed recombinant GST-fusion construct of the largest extracellular loop of human CD63 (GST- EC2). Briefly, 5 micrograms of purified recombinant GST-fusion protein was analyzed by electrophoresis on a 10 percent preparative SDS-polyacrylamide gel. After transfer the blot was probed with AR75A105.8, and with the anti-CD63 antibodies 7BDI-58, 7BD1-60, AR51A994.1, 7BD-33-1 IA, 1A245.6 and H460-22-1 and with an anti-CD44 antibody (clone H460-16-2) and with IgGl and IgG2a isotype control antibodies, according to standard Western blot procedure. All primary antibodies were used at a concentration of 5 micrograms/mL. The results from this experiment (Figure 9) revealed that all antibodies, with the exception of the anti-CD44 antibody and the isotype controls, cross-reacted specifically with the recombinant GST-fusion construct of human CD63 largest extracellular loop, therefore confirming that all antibodies (except for the anti-CD44 antibody and the isotype controls) cross-react with human CD63. The preponderance of evidence shows that AR75A 105.8 mediates its anticancer effect through ligation of an epitope or epitopes present on CD63. It has been shown, in Example 4, AR75A105.8 antibody can be used to immunoprecipitate the cognate antigen from expressing cells such as MDA-MB-231 cells. Further it could be shown that the AR75A 105.8 antibody could be used in detection of cells and/or tissues which express a CD63 antigenic moiety which specifically binds thereto, utilizing techniques illustrated by, but not limited to FACS or cell ELISA. 
 Thus, other anti-CD63 antibodies could be used to immunoprecipitate and isolate other forms of the CD63 antigen, and the antigen can also be used to inhibit the binding of those antibodies to the cells or tissues that express the antigen using the same types of assays. 
 All patents and publications mentioned in this specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. All patents and publications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. 

 It is to be understood that while a certain form of the invention is illustrated, it is not to be limited to the specific form or arrangement of parts herein described and shown. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention and the invention is not to be considered limited to what is shown and described in the specification. 
 One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objects and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned, as well as those inherent therein. Any oligonucleotides, peptides, polypeptides, biologically related compounds, methods, procedures and techniques described herein are presently representative of the preferred embodiments, are intended to be exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention and are defined by the scope of the appended claims. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments, it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed, various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in the art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims. 

 
 International Depositary Authority of Canada 
 National Microbiology Laboratory, Public Health Agency of Canada 
 1015 Arlington Street Tel: (204) 789-6030 
 Winnipeg, Manitoba Canada R3E 3R2 Fax:(204) 789-2018 
 International Form IDAC/BP/4 
 RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT 
 (issued pursuant to Rule 7.1 of the Budapest Treaty Regulations) 
 ATTACH COPIES OF THE ORIGINAL DEPOSIT CONTRACT AND VIABILITY STATEMENT 
 This International Depository Authority accepts the deposit of the microorganism specified below, which was received by it on March 28, 2006 
 To (Name of Depositor): Valerie Harris, ARIUS Research lnc Address: 55 York St.. Suite 1600, Toronto, ON M5J 1 R7 
 Identification of Deposit 
 Reference assigned by depositor: AR75A105.8 
 Accession Number assigned by this IDA: 280306-03 
 The deposit identified above was accompanied by: D a scientific description (specify): 
 D a proposed taxonomic designation (specify):_ 
 
 
 
 Date: March 28 2006 
 Receipt in the Case of an Original Deposit 1/1 File 086 (06) 

 International Depositary Authority of Canada 
 National Microbiology Laboratory, Public Health Agency of Canada 
 1015 Arlington Street Tel: (204) 789-6030 
 Winnipeg, Manitoba Canada R3E 3R2 Fax:(204) 789-2018 
 International Form IDAC/BP/9 
 STATEMENT OF VIABILITY 
 (Issued pursuant to Rule 10.2 of the Budapest Treaty Regulations) 
 Party to Whom the Viability Statement is Issued 
 Name: Ferris Lander 
 Address: 2855 PGA Boulevard. Palm Beach Gardens Florida. USA 33410 
 Depositor 
 Name: Valerie Harris. ARIUS Research Inc. 
 Address. 55 Ynrk .Qt Suite 1fif¥) Toronto DNI M5.I 1R7 
 Identification of the Deposit 
 Accession Number given by the International Depository Authority:280306-03 
 Date of the original deposit (or most recent relevant date): March 28, 2006 
 Viability Test 
 The viability of the deposit identified above was tested on (most recent test date) 
 On the date indicated above, the culture was: 
 EEr viable 
 D no longer viable 
 Conditions under which the Viability Test were performed (to be filled in if the information has been requested and the results of the test were negative): 
 
 
 
 Statement of Viability 1/1 File number: 086 (06) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
