
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ANTI-SOX10 ANTIBODY SYSTEMS AND METHODS  
 This application is an International PCT Patent Application claiming priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/886,488 filed October 3, 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/941,907 filed February 19, 2014, each application hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.  
 TECHNICAL FIELD  
  This invention relates to the novel anti-SOXlO antibodies, compositions, cocktails, and kits comprising the antibodies and methods for using the antibodies.  
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION  
  Microscopic examination of tissue samples, particularly those obtained by biopsy, is a common method for diagnosis of disease. In particular, immunohistochemistry (IHC), a technique in which specific antibodies are used to detect expression of specific proteins in the tissue sample, may be a valuable tool for diagnosis, particularly for the detection and diagnosis of cancer.  
  The Sry-related HMG-Box gene 10, perhaps located at chromosome 22ql3, may encode a protein known as SOX 10, which is perhaps a transcription factor in humans that may be important for neural crest, peripheral nervous system, and melanocytic cell development. SOX 10 may be essential for the formation of nerves in the large intestine and melanocytes. Melanocytes are perhaps cells that produce pigment, found in the skin, eyes, and hair. The SOX 10 protein may be widely expressed in human normal tissues including melanocytes, breast tissue, cranial ganglia, dorsal root ganglia, and the optic vesicle. SOX10 may perhaps also be an important marker in malignant tumors such as melanoma, breast carcinoma, gliomas, and the like, as well as benign tumors such as schwannomas, and the like. The transcriptional factor SOX10 may be one of the key determinants of oligodendroglial differentiation. The majority of oligodendrogliomas, but also a large fraction of astrocytomas, including the least differentiated glioblastomas, perhaps express SOX10. 

 Desmoplastic melanoma may be a rare variant of invasive cutaneous melanoma, with an annual incidence rate of perhaps approximately 2 per 1,000,000. Features unique to this melanoma type may include deep invasion, increased peri-neural invasion, local recurrence and perhaps delayed diagnosis. Studies may have shown that SOX10 is a highly sensitive and specific marker of melanoma in both primary and metastatic lesions. On the basis of the expression in melanocytes of non-neoplastic and benign skin, and in benign and dysplastic nevi, SOX 10 may not be a useful marker to differentiate between benign and malignant pigmented skin lesions.  
  Desmoplastic melanoma (DM) may present diagnostic challenges perhaps due to similarity of histologic mimics and even perhaps limited immunohistochemical staining. In one study, SOX 10 may have shown 100% sensitivity for DM and perhaps SOX10 was negative in all histologic mimics of the dermis/subcutis, including spindle cell carcinoma, AFX and sarcomas. Although anti-S lOO antibodies may typically stain DM, other melanoma markers (e.g. HMB-45 and Melan-A) are perhaps often negative.  
  Traditionally, melanoma markers such as S lOO, HMB45, MART-1 (perhaps also known as Melan-A), and Tyrosinase may have been used in a panel of antibodies to identify melanoma. Anti-S lOO antibody may have been used as a screener for melanoma, and perhaps may have been a more sensitive marker compared to other melanoma markers; however, S lOO may have a disadvantage of suboptimal specificity as it may stain both lymph nodes and brain, which are common sites of metastatic melanoma and its mimics. HMB45, MART-1 and Tyrosinase may perhaps be more specific than S lOO protein; however, this panel of antibodies may be negative in desmoplastic melanoma and spindle cell melanoma and thus perhaps lack sensitivity.  
  An antibody cocktail of MART-1 and Tyrosinase, may have been shown to be a very sensitive marker of metastatic melanomas and perhaps even comparable to S lOO protein (about 98% versus about 100%, respectively). However, S lOO may have still been more sensitive for desmoplastic melanoma and spindle cell melanoma. The potential benefit of combining SOX10, with its sensitivity for melanoma, including desmoplastic melanoma and spindle cell melanoma, and one or more melanoma markers, perhaps even those that are not sensitive for desmoplatic melanoma or spindle cell melanoma, including perhaps MART-1 

 and Tyrosinase, may not be known. Such a combination may provide a superior marker for melanoma.  
  SOX10 may also be a neural crest transcription factor crucial for specification, maturation, and maintenance of Schwann cells and melanocytes. SOX10 may also be diffusely expressed in schwannomas and neurofibromas. Despite perhaps a well-characterized lack of specificity, pathologists may routinely employ S IOO in the diagnosis of neural crest-derived tumors. Recent studies have shown that perhaps SOX10 is a reliable marker of neural crest differentiation that may be consistently expressed in schwannian and melanocytic tumors, perhaps offering advantages over S 100.  
  SOX10 expression may be observed in myoepithelial breast cells in normal breast glands. SOX10 may have been demonstrated in basal-like, unclassified triple-negative, and in metaplastic carcinoma breast cancer types; and perhaps supports the concept that these neoplasms may show myoepithelial differentiation. In lung cancers, sustentacular cells may be found in approximately half of pulmonary carcinoid tumors. A SOX10 antibody was used to investigate perhaps 113 pulmonary cases that we not elsewhere classified (NEC). Sustentacular cells may have been observed in perhaps 66.7% of typical carcinoid (TC) and even perhaps 58.3% of atypical carcinoid (AC) cases, but may not have been observed in high-grade NECs.  
  SOX10 may show an increased specificity for tumors of neural crest origin, when perhaps compared with S 100. In one study, SOX10 may have been positive in perhaps only 5 of 668 cases (99% specificity) in non- schwannian, non-melanocytic tumors, whereas S IOO may have been positive in perhaps 53 of 668 cases (91% specificity). Therefore, SOX10 may be useful in place of, or perhaps in combination with S IOO, for soft tissue tumor diagnosis.  
  To date, most published studies may have used a goat polyclonal SOX10 for immunohistochemical (IHC) methods. Polyclonal goat antibodies may not be generally preferred for use in IHC methods, as monoclonal antibodies may be preferred, even perhaps mouse or rabbit antibodies may be preferred. Particularly for the IHC methods used in clinical diagnosis, monoclonal antibodies may be preferred, perhaps even mouse or rabbit antibodies are preferred. A clear need may exist for a marker to differentiate spindle cell and desmoplastic melanoma from other tumors and its mimics and perhaps extensive efforts to 

 date may not have yielded such a marker. A SOX10 monoclonal antibody, would perhaps be highly valuable in the clinical setting for diagnosis.  
  Therefore, a clear need exists for a sensitive and even specific anti-SOXlO antibody for use in cancer diagnosis. Embodiments of the present invention provide an anti-SOXlO mouse monoclonal antibody [clone BC34] which may be highly sensitive and may even be highly specific. An example of the present invention provides a mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody that may detect the presence or absence of SOX10 protein in certain cancers, including but not limited to melanoma, spindle cell melanoma, desmoplastic melanoma, nevi, schwannomas, breast cancer, rhabdomyosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma or the like. An example of the present invention may have demonstrated excellent sensitivity for melanoma (about 105/109, about 9%) with perhaps even excellent specificity versus other normal, benign and malignant tissues. When compared to the known rabbit polyclonal (RP) anti-SOXlO antibody, the mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO BC34 may have typically demonstrated greater sensitivity, and perhaps greater specificity, with cleaner staining patterns, perhaps with fewer artifacts, and perhaps without staining many carcinoids, while even offering the advantages of a monoclonal antibody. BC34 also may not stain some specimens, which may have been stained by the RP anti-SOXlO antibody, perhaps indicating the superior specificity of BC34 over alternatives. Therefore, a monoclonal anti- SOX10 antibody, such as BC34, may be preferred for diagnosis, compared to alternative antibodies, including alternative anti-SOXlO antibodies.  
  The development of an anti-SOXlO antibody may aid in the diagnosis of primary and even metastatic cancers, particularly melanoma, spindle cell melanoma, desmoplastic melanoma, nevi, schwannomas, breast cancer, rhabdomyosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma or the like. Anti-SOXlO antibodies such as mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody [BC34], with perhaps equal or superior staining sensitivity, and perhaps even superior staining specificity such as compared to alternative anti-SOXlO antibodies, including the RP anti-SOXlO antibody, have been provided in the present invention.  
 DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION  
  General embodiments of the present invention may include monoclonal antibodies for recognizing SOX10, methods for their preparation, use in immunohistochemistry, or the 

 like. In embodiments, anti-SOXlO antibody clones such as the anti-SOXlO antibody clone BC34 can be obtained by immunizing Balb/C mice with one or more proteins corresponding to a subset of amino acids 147-253 of the human SOXIO protein. The SOXIO protein may be injected into the BALB/c mice, with an adjuvant, via intraperitoneal injections, perhaps about 5 times at about three week intervals. The immune reactivity to SOXIO may be assessed by direct ELISA on recombinant SOXIO protein. Mice with the highest titer may be chosen for developing hybridomas by cell fusion. A hybridoma clone demonstrating the best reactivity to SOXIO on human tissues may be chosen and may be designated as BC34. The BC34 clone may be tested for isotype and may be identified as a mouse IgGl. The BC34 antibody may be produced by large scale tissue culture of the hybridoma cells and by ascites in BALB/c mice. The supernatant and antibody ascites may be collected and the antibody may be purified by Protein A affinity column. BC34 may demonstrate specific reactivity to human SOXIO protein by ELISA, Western blotting, and even human tissues.  
  Anti-SOXlO antibodies such as the mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 may be useful for the detection of SOXIO in tissue samples, perhaps with several significant, but unexpected advantages over currently known antibodies to SOXIO. Biological samples may be tested and may include, but are not limited to, skin tissue, lung tissue, bladder tissue, breast tissue, prostate tissue, normal tissue, neoplastic tissue, bladder tissue, kidney tissue, ovarian tissue, thyroid tissue, endometrial tissue, renal tissue, tonsil tissue, pancreas tissue, colon tissue, lymph node tissue, neoplastic pancreatic tissue, stomach tissue, prostate tissue, lung tissue, breast tissue, and the like. When used in traditional immunohistochemistry procedures, anti-SOXlO antibodies such as the mouse anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 may result in nuclear staining of SOX10 with sensitivity similar or perhaps superior to that of known anti-SOXlO antibodies, which may offer significant improvements. Additionally, anti-SOXlO antibodies such as BC34 may exhibit increased specificity, perhaps as compared to other known anti-SOXlO antibodies, which may offer significant improvements. In addition to the possible advantages of being derived from a monoclonal source, anti-SOXlO antibodies such as BC34 may also offer cleaner staining, with fewer artifacts, and greater cell-type specificity, for example perhaps not staining carcinoids, when compared to other known anti-SOXlO antibodies. With anti-SOXlO antibodies such as BC34, analysis of the sample may be simplified and SOX10 expression in 

 tumor cells may be readily identifiable, allowing diagnosis in cases that may otherwise be difficult, ambiguous, or not even possible, to diagnose.  
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS  
  Figure 1 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of melanoma of the chest wall (10X magnification).  
  Figure 2 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of melanoma of the scalp (20X magnification).  
  Figure 3 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of melanoma of the shoulder (10X magnification). Reduced staining, or perhaps and absence of staining may be observed in this sample.  
  Figure 4 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of metastatic melanoma in a lymph node (20X magnification).  
  Figure 5 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (red) staining a case of balloon cell melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 6 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (red) staining a case of epithelioid melananoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 7 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of peripheral nerve tumor (20X magnification).  
  Figure 8 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (red) staining a case of perivascular melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 9 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (red) staining a case of perivascular melanoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 10 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (red) staining a case of rhabdoid melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 11 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (red) staining a case of sarcomatoid melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 12 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (red) staining a case of plasmacytoid melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 13 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 
 (brown) staining a case of compound nevus of skin (20X magnification). 

 Figure 14 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of intradermal nevus of the cheek (20X magnification).  
  Figure 15 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of junctional nevus of skin (20X magnification).  
  Figure 16 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 
 (brown) staining a case of schwannoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 17 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining argentaffin cells in normal colon (20X magnification).  
  Figure 18 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining normal brain neurons (20X magnification).  
  Figure 19 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a myoepithelial cells in normal breast glands (20X magnification).  
  Figure 20 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining normal skin (20X magnification).  
  Figure 21 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 
 (brown) staining normal salivary gland (20X magnification).  
  Figure 22 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining breast tissue, perhaps breast cancer.  
  Figure 23 shows a color version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody (brown) staining the same breast specimen of Figure 22. Staining may be less intense that that observed with BC34 in Figure 22.  
  Figure 24 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining lung tissue, perhaps lung adenocarcinoma. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, particularly when compared to Figure 25.  
  Figure 25 shows a color version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody (brown) staining the same lung specimen of Figure 24. Cytoplasmic staining may be observed in this sample, in contrast to the nuclear staining expected for SOX 10.  
  Figure 26 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining melanoma. Staining may perhaps be more intense than that observed in Figure 27. 

 Figure 27 shows a color version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody (brown) staining the same melanoma specimen of Figure 26. Staining may be less intense that that observed with BC34 in Figure 26.  
  Figure 28 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining melanoma. Staining may perhaps be more intense than that observed in Figure 29.  
  Figure 29 shows a color version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody (brown) staining the same breast specimen of Figure 28. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, compared that that observed with BC34 in Figure 28.  
  Figure 30 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 
 (brown) staining melanoma. Staining may perhaps be more intense than that observed in Figure 31.  
  Figure 31 shows a color version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody (brown) staining the same breast specimen of Figure 30. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, compared that that observed with BC34 in Figure 30.  
  Figure 32 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining normal bladder. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, particularly when compared to Figure 33.  
  Figure 33 shows a color version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody (brown) staining the same bladder specimen of Figure 32. Cytoplasmic staining may be observed in this sample, in contrast to the nuclear staining expected for SOX 10.  
  Figure 34 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining intestinal carcinoids (20X magnification).  
  Figure 35 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of alveolus rhabdomyosarcoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 36 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of astrocytoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 37 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of breast cancer (20X magnification).  
  Figure 38 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 
 (brown) staining a case of intermediate grade II leiomyosarcoma (10X magnification). 

 Figure 39 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of desmoplastic melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 40 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of desmoplastic melanoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 41 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 
 (brown) staining a case of benign schwannoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 42 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of spindle cell melanoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 43 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of spindle cell melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 44 shows a color version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 (brown) staining a case of spindle cell melanoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 45 shows a color version of an example of an antibody cocktail of Tyrosinase + MART-1 (red) staining a case of melanoma.  
  Figure 46 shows a color version of an example of SOX 10 [BC34] (red) staining the same case of melanoma shown in Figure 45.  
  Figure 47 shows a color version of a first example of an antibody cocktail of SOX 10 + Tyrosinase + MART-1 (red) staining cases of melanoma.  
  Figure 48 shows a color version of a second example of an antibody cocktail of SOX10 + Tyrosinase + MART-1 (red) staining cases of melanoma.  
  Figure 49 shows a color version of an example of BC34 (red) staining a case of melanoma.  
  Figure 50 shows a color version of the same case of melanoma shown in Figure 49 stained with a cocktail of Tyrosinase + MART-1 (red). Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present, although pigmented melanocytes may be observed.  
  Figure 51 shows a color version of an example of a cocktail of Tyrosinase + MART- 1 (red) staining a case of melanoma.  
  Figure 52 shows a color version of the same case of melanoma shown in Figure 51 stained with BC34 (red). Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 53 shows a color version of an example of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + 
 MART- 1 (red) staining a case of melanoma. 

 Figure 54 shows a color version of the same case of melanoma shown in Figure 49 stained with S 100 (red). Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 55 shows a color version of an example of lymph node stained with an antibody cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 (red). Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 56 shows a color version of an example of brain stained with an antibody cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 (red). Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 57 shows a color version of an example of bone marrow stained with an antibody cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 (red). Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 58 shows a color version of an example of staining with S 100 (red) in the same case of lymph node as shown in Figure 55.  
  Figure 59 shows a color version of an example of staining with S 100 (red) in the same case of brain as shown in Figure 56.  
  Figure 60 shows a color version of an example of staining with S 100 (red) in the same case of bone marrow as shown in Figure 57.  
  Figure 61 shows an example of a schematic summary of a kit in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention.  
  Figure 62 shows an example of a schematic summary of an immunoassay method in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention.  
  Figure 63 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of melanoma of the chest wall (10X magnification).  
  Figure 64 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of melanoma of the scalp (20X magnification).  
  Figure 65 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of melanoma of the shoulder (10X magnification). Reduced staining, or perhaps and absence of staining may be observed in this sample.  
  Figure 66 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of metastatic melanoma in a lymph node (20X magnification). 

 Figure 67 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of balloon cell melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 68 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of epithelioid melananoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 69 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining a case of peripheral nerve tumor (20X magnification).  
  Figure 70 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of perivascular melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 71 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of perivascular melanoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 72 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of rhabdoid melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 73 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of sarcomatoid melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 74 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining a case of plasmacytoid melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 75 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of compound nevus of skin (20X magnification).  
  Figure 76 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of intradermal nevus of the cheek (20X magnification).  
  Figure 77 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of junctional nevus of skin (20X magnification).  
  Figure 78 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of schwannoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 79 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining argentaffin cells in normal colon (20X magnification).  
  Figure 80 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining normal brain neurons (20X magnification).  
  Figure 81 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a myoepithelial cells in normal breast glands (20X magnification). 

 Figure 82 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining normal skin (20X magnification).  
  Figure 83 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining normal salivary gland (20X magnification).  
  Figure 84 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining breast tissue, perhaps breast cancer.  
  Figure 85 shows a black and white version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody staining the same breast specimen of Figure 84. Staining may be less intense that that observed with BC34 in Figure 84.  
  Figure 86 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining lung tissue, perhaps lung adenocarcinoma. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, particularly when compared to Figure 87.  
  Figure 87 shows a black and white version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody staining the same lung specimen of Figure 86. Cytoplasmic staining may be observed in this sample, in contrast to the nuclear staining expected for SOX10.  
  Figure 88 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining melanoma. Staining may perhaps be more intense than that observed in Figure 89.  
  Figure 89 shows a black and white version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody staining the same melanoma specimen of Figure 88. Staining may be less intense that that observed with BC34 in Figure 88.  
  Figure 90 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining melanoma. Staining may perhaps be more intense than that observed in Figure 91.  
  Figure 91 shows a black and white version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody staining the same breast specimen of Figure 90. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, compared that that observed with BC34 in Figure 90.  
  Figure 92 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining melanoma. Staining may perhaps be more intense than that observed in Figure 93. 

 Figure 93 shows a black and white version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody staining the same breast specimen of Figure 92. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, compared that that observed with BC34 in Figure 92.  
  Figure 94 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining normal bladder. Staining may be reduced, or perhaps absent, particularly when compared to Figure 95.  
  Figure 95 shows a black and white version of an example of RP anti-SOXlO antibody staining the same bladder specimen of Figure 94. Cytoplasmic staining may be observed in this sample, in contrast to the nuclear staining expected for SOX10.  
  Figure 96 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining intestinal carcinoids (20X magnification).  
  Figure 97 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of alveolus rhabdomyosarcoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 98 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of astrocytoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 99 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of breast cancer (20X magnification).  
  Figure 100 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of intermediate grade II leiomyosarcoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 101 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining a case of desmoplastic melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 102 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of desmoplastic melanoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 103 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of benign schwannoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 104 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of spindle cell melanoma (20X magnification).  
  Figure 105 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 staining a case of spindle cell melanoma (10X magnification).  
  Figure 106 shows a black and white version of an example of anti-SOXlO antibody 
 BC34 staining a case of spindle cell melanoma (20X magnification). 

 Figure 107 shows a black and white version of an example of an antibody cocktail of Tyrosinase + MART-1 staining a case of melanoma.  
  Figure 108 shows a black and white version of an example of SOX10 [BC34] staining the same case of melanoma shown in Figure 39A.  
  Figure 109 shows a black and white version of a first example of an antibody cocktail of SOX10 + Tyrosinase + MART-1 staining cases of melanoma.  
  Figure 110 shows a black and white version of a second example of an antibody cocktail of SOX10 + Tyrosinase + MART-1 staining cases of melanoma.  
  Figure 111 shows a color version of an example of BC34 staining a case of melanoma.  
  Figure 112 shows a black and white version of the same case of melanoma shown in Figure 111 stained with a cocktail of Tyrosinase + MART-1. Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present, although pigmented melanocytes may be observed.  
  Figure 113 shows a black and white version of an example of a cocktail of Tyrosinase + MART-1 staining a case of melanoma.  
  Figure 114 shows a black and white version of the same case of melanoma shown in Figure 113 stained with BC34. Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 115 shows a black and white version of an example of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 staining a case of melanoma.  
  Figure 116 shows a black and white version of the same case of melanoma shown in 
 Figure 40A stained with S 100. Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 117 shows a black and white version of an example of lymph node stained with an antibody cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1. Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 118 shows a black and white version of an example of brain stained with an antibody cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1. Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present.  
  Figure 119 shows a black and white version of an example of bone marrow stained with an antibody cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1. Perhaps reduced staining or no staining may be present. 

 Figure 120 shows a black and white version of an example of staining with S 100 in the same case of lymph node as shown in Figure 117.  
  Figure 121 shows a black and white version of an example of staining with S 100 in the same case of brain as shown in Figure 118.  
  Figure 122 shows a black and white version of an example of staining with S 100 in the same case of bone marrow as shown in Figure 119.  
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS  
  As may be understood from the earlier discussion, the present invention includes a variety of aspects, which may be combined in different ways. The following descriptions are provided to list elements and describe some of the embodiments of the present invention. These elements are listed with initial embodiments, however it should be understood that they may be combined in any manner and in any number to create additional embodiments. The variously described examples and preferred embodiments should not be construed to limit the present invention to only the explicitly described systems, techniques, and applications. Further, this description should be understood to support and encompass descriptions and claims of all the various embodiments, systems, techniques, methods, devices, and applications with any number of the disclosed elements, with each element alone, and also with any and all various permutations and combinations of all elements in this or any subsequent application.  
  Embodiments of the present invention may provide monoclonal antibodies and methods thereof that specifically bind to SOX 10 and may be used for the detection of SOX10 in the diagnosis for several types of cancers. The monoclonal antibody may be an antibody fragment, a mouse monoclonal antibody, a rabbit monoclonal antibody, a chimeric antibody, a humanized monoclonal antibody, a human monoclonal antibody, an antibody labeled with a detectable signal or stain, an antibody labeled with a toxin, or the like. The monoclonal antibody may be a chimeric antibody comprised of the variable region from one host species and the constant region from a different species, perhaps the variable region derived from a mouse monoclonal antibody known to bind SOX 10 and the constant region from a rabbit IgG antibody. Systems and methods of the present invention may relate to the monoclonal antibody or its antigen binding portion capable of binding to SOX10. 

 Mouse monoclonal antibodies may be commonly used in immunoassay methods to identify specific analytes, including as primary antibodies in immunohistochemistry procedures. Mouse monoclonal antibodies specific for the protein target of interest can be produced using generally known procedures. Generally, exposing a mouse to the antigen of interest (e.g. a peptide fragment of the desired target or the full-length protein target) may induce an immune response in which the mouse generates multiple antibodies that bind the antigen, each of which may be produced by a particular B-cell. These B-cells may be isolated from the mouse spleen and the antibodies produced may be evaluated for their suitability as primary antibodies in IHC. After selecting the optimal antibody, the associated B-cell may be fused with a tumor cell using known procedures, perhaps resulting in a hybridoma, a new cell line that can endlessly replicate and may continuously produce the desired antibody.  
  Monoclonal antibodies may be preferred in certain embodiments over polyclonal antibodies for several reasons. In particular, monoclonal antibodies may be derived from a single B-cell and as such may recognize a single epitope, perhaps resulting in greater specificity. Monoclonal antibodies may also be conveniently and reproducibly generated in cell culture, perhaps resulting in a constant supply of the desired antibody. Of course, polyclonal antibodies may be utilized in other embodiments.  
  Anti-SOXlO antibodies such as a mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 may be produced using these general procedures and may be evaluated by immunohistochemistry for sensitivity and specificity on a variety of normal and neoplastic tissues, perhaps particularly in comparison to the previously known RP anti-SOXlO antibody.  
  Example of SOX10 protein expression: A SOX10 recombinant protein from amino acid sequence 147 to 253 may be cloned and expressed from E. coli. Briefly, SOX10 cDNA may be cloned and purified. The SOX 10 cDNA may be digested by restriction enzymes and ligated into the pET30a-GST vector. BL21 cells may be transformed with the construct. The colonies expressing the correct size of recombinant protein may be selected and sequenced. A further scale up production may be performed by culturing the E. coli in LB media containing about 0.5mM IPTG. The final SOX10 recombinant protein may be purified and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. 

 Example of Host Immunization: Female BALB/c (about 6 to about 8 weeks old) mice may be immunized intraperitoneally (i.p.) with about 10( g human SOX10 protein per mouse in complete Freund's adjuvant. About three weeks later, the mice may be boosted with another about 10( g human SOX10 per mouse in incomplete Freund's adjuvant about 4 more times in about 3 week intervals. Mice may be bled from the tails, and sera may be collected and stored at about -20°C for later analysis of antibody titers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).  
  Example of Hybridomas: Hybridoma producing antibodies to SOX10 may be generated by standard techniques from splenocytes of SOXlO-immunized BALB/c mice. For example, splenocytes from SOXlO-immunized mice may be fused to P3-X63-Ag 8.653 myeloma cells (non-secreting myeloma derived from SP2/0 Balb/c myeloma cells) by incubation with about 50% polyethylene glycol at a ratio of about 4: 1. Following incubation, cells may be pelleted by centrifugation perhaps at about 300 x g for about 10 minutes, washed in about 25 ml of PBS, recentrifuged, and the cell pellet may be resuspended in about 100 ml of fresh Dulbecco's Medium containing about 20% fetal bovine serum (Hyclone, Logan, Utah). Aliquots of about 100 μΐ can be added to each well of ten 96- well microtiter plates (Corning, Lowell, MA). About twenty four hours later, about 100 μΐ DMEM culture medium supplemented with about 1M hypoxanthine (HT), about 4 mM aminopterin and about 160 mM thymidine (HAT) can be added to each microtiter well. Media may be replaced perhaps after about 4 days with complete media (perhaps containing HAT and HT). Over the following about 10 days, media may be removed and replaced with fresh media with reduced or perhaps even no HAT and HT added. Hybridoma supernatants may be screened by ELISA for antibody reactivity to SOX10, and hybridoma clones may then be selected and stabilized perhaps by cloning twice by limiting dilution.  
  Hybridoma cells referred to as Anti-human SOX10 hybridoma clone BC34 have been deposited with the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) Patent Depository in Manassas, Virginia on February 11, 2014 and have received ATCC Patent Deposit Designation No. PTA- 120969 as shown in the attached exhibit entitled, "Budapest Restricted Certificate of Deposit" hereby incorporated by reference herein. Embodiments of the present invention may provide an antibody or fragment thereof produced by the 

 hybridoma deposited at the ATCC and may even include a method for producing a monoclonal antibody by culturing the hybridoma cell that produces the monoclonal antibody capable of specifically recognizing SOX 10 and even allowing the hybridoma to produce monoclonal antibodies.  
  ELISA: Host anti-sera immune responses to SOX10 may be measured by ELISA. 
 For example, a solution of SOX10 (about ^g/ml) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) may be used to coat about 96-well flat bottom polystyrene plates. The plates may then be blocked with about 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA)-PBS. Either diluted immune sera or hybridoma supernatants may be added and incubated at about 37 °C for about 1 hour. After washing the plates with PBS, the plates may be incubated with goat anti-mouse-HRP reagents (Jackson Labs). Incubations may be done at about 37°C for about 30 minutes. ABTS substrate may be added to develop color and the absorbance at about 405 nm (A405) may be measured in a microtiter plate reader.  
  Isotype of monoclonal antibodies: Anti-SOXlO antibodies such as the BC34 monoclonal antibody may be isotyped using a mouse monoclonal antibody isotyping kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA). For example, about 100 μΐ of supernatant from mouse monoclonal antibody [BC34] cells may be added to the plate coated goat anti mouse IgGl, IgG2A, IgG2B, IgG3, IgM, and IgA. After about 30 minutes incubation, the plate may be washed about 3 times with PBS and may be incubated with goat anti mouse Ig-HRP reagent. ABTS substrate may be added to develop color and the absorbance at about 405 nm (A405) may be measured in a microtiter plate reader. The BC34 clone may be tested for isotype and may be identified as a mouse IgGl/kappa.  
  Antibody Production and purification: The selected hybridoma cells from clone BC34 may be cultured with DMEM culture medium supplemented with about 10% FBS or any serum-free medium. The culture supernatants may be further purified by protein A affinity column. The hybridoma cells may also be injected into pristane-primed BALB/c mice to produce antibody ascites. The antibody ascites may be further purified by protein A affinity column. IgG concentration may be measured spectrophotometrically using the extinction coefficient for mouse IgG of about 1.4at about 280nm. The purity of IgG may be determined by SDS-PAGE. 

 Western Blotting: The purified monoclonal antibody [BC34] may be characterized by Western Blotting. Full-length SOX10 transfected cell lysates (Origene, Rockville, MD) may be subjected to protein gel electrophoresis using about 4 to about 12% SDS-PAGE with Tris-glycine buffer and may be transferred onto nitrocellulose filters in Tris-glycine buffer. Proteins on the blots may be visualized by incubating BC34 antibody for about 60 minutes in room temperature after blocking with blocking buffer, perhaps followed by incubating with peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse immunoglobulins. The blots may be detected using TMB chromogen.  
  Determination of VH and VL sequences: Total RNA may be extracted from hybridomas using Qiagen kit (USA, Gaithersburg, MD) as per the manufacturer's instructions. Total RNA from hybridoma cells was reverse transcribed in a final volume of 20 μΐ containing 6 μΜ random primer mix (New England Biolabs Ipswich, MA), 0.5 mM each nucleotide dNTP Mix (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY), 5 mM DTT (Invitrogen), 40U RNaseOUT™Recombinant RNase Inhibitor, and 200U Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY). Reverse transcription (RT) reactions were performed at 42 °C for 5 min, 25 °C for 10 min, 50 °C for 60 min and 94 °C for 5 min. Mouse Igh and Igk variable regions were amplified independently by two rounds of nested PCR starting from 1 μΐ of cDNA as template. All PCR reactions were performed in a total volume of 20 μΐ containing 200nM each primer or total primer mix (Table 1), 300 μΜ each dNTP (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY) and 0.1 ul of Taq DNA polymerase (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY). The first round of PCR was performed at 94 °C for 15 min followed by 30cycles of 94 °C for 30s, 56 °C (Igh) or 50 °C (Igk) for 30s, 72 °C for 55s, and final incubation at 72 °C for lOmin. Nested second round PCR was performed with 1 μΐ of unpurified first round PCR product at 94 °C for 15min followed by 30cycles of 94 °C for 30s, 60 °C (Igh) or 45 °C(Igk) for 30s, 72 °C for 45s, and final incubation at 72 °C for 10 min. PCR products were analyzed on 2% agarose gels and cut and purified using QIAquick PCR Purification Kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA). The purified PCR products were cloned by TOPO TA Cloning System (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY). The 8 colonies were randomly selected and screened by colony PCR with M13 forward and reverse primers. PCR products were purified using QIAquick PCR Purification Kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA) and sequenced using T3 promoter sequencing primer and analysis. IMGT (the International 

 ImMuno-GeneTics )/V-QUEST database was applied to analyze the VH and VL sequences and determine complementary determining regions (CDRs) (Table 2). (http://www.imgt.org/IMGT vquest/share/textes/)  
 Table 1  
  Primer name 5 -3' sequence  
 Igh 1st PCR  
  5' MsVHE GGGAATTCGAGGTGCAGCTGCAGGAGTCTGG  
  3' Cyl outer GGAAGGTGTGCACACCGCTGGAC  
  3' Cy2c outer GGAAGGTGTGCACACCACTGGAC  
  3' Cy2b outer GGAAGGTGTGCACACTGCTGGAC  
  3' Cy3 outer AGACTGTGCGCACACCGCTGGAC  
 Igh 2nd PCR  
  5' MsVHE GGGAATTCGAGGTGCAGCTGCAGGAGTCTGG  
  3' Cyl inner GCT CAG GGA AAT AGC CCT TGA C  
  3' Cy2c inner GCT CAG GGA AAT AAC CCT TGA C  
  3' Cy2b inner ACT CAG GGA AGT AGC CCT TGA C  
  3' Cy3 inner GCT CAG GGA AGT AGC CTT TGA C  
 Igk 1st PCR  
  5 ' L-VK_3 TGC TGC TGC TCT GGG TTC CAG  
  5 ' L-VK_4 ATT WTC AGC TTC CTG CTA ATC  
  5 ' L-VK_5 TTT TGC TTT TCT GGA TTY CAG  
  5 ' L-VK_6 TCG TGT TKC TST GGT TGT CTG  
  5' L-VK_6,8,9 ATG GAA TCA CAG RCY CWG GT  
  5' L-VK_14 TCT TGT TGC TCT GGT TYC CAG  
  5 ' L- VK_19 CAG TTC CTG GGG CTC TTG TTG TTC  
  5 ' L-VK_20 CTC ACT AGC TCT TCT CCT C  
  3 ' mCK GAT GGT GGG AAG ATG GAT AC A GTT  
 Igk 2nd PCR  
  5 ' mVkappa G A Y ATTGTGMTS ACMC ARWCTMC A  
  3' P-mJK01 CGT TTG ATT TCC AGC TTG GTG  
  3' P-mJK02 CGT TTT ATT TCC AGC TTG GTC  
  3' P-mJK03 CGT TTT ATT TCC AAC TTT GTC  
  3' P-mJK04 CGT TTC AGC TCC AGC TTG GTC 

 Table 2  
  VH, CDR1: GFSLSTFLIG SEQ ID NO. 6  
  VH, CDR2: IWWNDNK SEQ ID NO. 7  
  VH, CDR3: VRMAGIGGTDAMDY SEQ ID NO. 8  
 VL, CDR1: EIVEYYGTNL SEQ ID NO. 9  
  VL, CDR2: AAS SEQ ID NO. 10  
  VL, CDR3: QQSRKVPWT SEQ ID NO. 11 BC34 variable domains were sequenced to provide isolated polynucleotides that comprise nucleic acid sequences encoding the amino acid sequences of one or more of the CDRs of the light and/or heavy chain variable regions of a monoclonal antibody described herein that binds to the SOX10 epitope QGGT A AIQ AH YKS AH identified as SEQ ID NO: 3. The sequence of the variable region of the heavy chain is identified as SEQ ID NO: 1 and the sequence of the variable region of the light chain is identified as SEQ ID NO: 2. The amino acid sequence of the variable region of the heavy chain is identified as SEQ ID NO: 4 and the amino acid sequence of the variable region of the light chain is identified as SEQ ID NO: 5. An antibody or fragment thereof may include a polypeptide which may include the amino acid sequence encoded by the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and/or SEQ ID NO: 2. An antibody or fragment thereof may include a polypeptide of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 and/or SEQ ID NO: 5. An antibody or fragment thereof may include a light chain variable region having an amino acid sequence encoded by the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 and may even include a heavy chain variable region having an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. An antibody or fragment thereof may include a light chain variable region having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5 and may even include a heavy chain variable region having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. An antibody or fragment thereof may specifically bind to at least one polypeptide of an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. As mentioned herein, a fragment thereof may include an antigen binding fragment thereof.  
  In embodiments, an antibody or fragment thereof, or even an isolated and purified nucleic acid sequence may have an amino acid sequence of at least about 70% identical to an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and/or SEQ ID NO: 2 and/or the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. In embodiments, an antibody or fragment thereof may have an amino acid sequence of at least about 70% identical to an 

 amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 and/or SEQ ID NO: 5 and/or the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. An antibody or fragment thereof may specifically bind to at least one polypeptide with an amino acid sequence that is at least about 70% identical to residues of SEQ ID NO: 3. Other percentages may include, but are not limited to, at least about 71%, at least about 72%, at least about 73%, at least about 74%, at least about 75%, at least about 76%, at least about 77%, at least about 78%, at least about 79%, at least about 80%, at least about 81%, at least about 82%, at least about 83%, at least about 84%, at least about 85%, at least about 86%, at least about 87%, at least about 88%, at least about 89%, at least about 90%, at least about 91%, at least about 92%, at least about 93%, at least about 94%, at least about 95%, at least about 96%, at least about 97%, at least about 98%, and perhaps even at least about 99%, about 70%, about 71%, about 72%, about 73%, about 74%, about 75%, about 76%, about 77%, about 78%, about 79%, about 80%, about 81%, about 82%, about 83%, about 84%, about 85%, about 86%, about 87%, about 88%, about 89%, about 90%, about 91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or the like.  
  In other embodiments, an antibody or fragment thereof may include a polypeptide of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and/or 11 and any combination thereof. An antibody or fragment thereof may include a light chain variable region having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9, 10, and/or 11 or any combination thereof and may even include a heavy chain variable region having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6, 7, and/or 8 or any combination thereof.  
  In reference to Table 2 and SEQ ID NOS. 6-11, an antibody or fragment thereof may have an amino acid sequence of perhaps at least about 2% up to at least about 26% identical to an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 and/or SEQ ID NO: 5. Other percentages may include, but are not limited to, at least about 2%, at least about 2.7%, at least about 3%, at least about 4%, at least about 5%, at least about 5.7%, at least about 6%, at least about 7%, at least about 8%, at least about 8.1%, at least about 9%, at least about 10%, at least about 10.8%, at least about 11%, at least about 11.4%, at least about 11.7%, at least about 12%, at least about 13%, at least about 13.9%, at least about 14%, at least about 15%, at least aboutl6%, at least aboutl7%, at least about 17.1%, at least aboutl7.2%, at least aboutl8%, at least aboutl9%, at least aboutl9.6%, at least about 19.8%, at least about 20%, at least 

 about 21 , at least about 22%, at least about 23%, at least about 24%, at least about 25%, at least about 25.4%, at least about 26%, at least about 30%; between about 2% and about 70%, about 2%, about 2.7%, about 3%, about 4%, about 5%, about 5.7%, about 6%, about 7%, about 8%, about 8.1%, about 9%, about 10%, about 10.8%, about 11%, about 11.4%, about 11.7%, about 12%, aboutl3%, about 13.9%, aboutl4%, aboutl5%, aboutl6%, aboutl7%, about 17.1%, about 17.2%, aboutl8%, aboutl9%, about 19.6%, about 19.8%, about 20%, about 21%, about 22%, about 23%, about 24%, about 25%, about 25.4%, about 26%, about 30%, or the like.  
  Epitope Mapping of the mouse anti-SOXlO [BC34] Binding Sequence: In order to determine the peptide sequence of SOX 10 that is recognized by anti-SOXlO antibodies such as BC34, epitope mapping may be conducted perhaps using two assays: direct ELISA and even dot blot. In an ELISA assay, the sensitivity and specificity of the anti-SOXlO [BC34] antibody may be determined by measuring the antibody titer at about 1:500 and about 1: 1000. Overlapping peptides at a length of about 15 amino acids each, covering the human SOX10 protein sequence from perhaps 147 to 253 amino acids, may be used to determine a sequence of BC34 binding.  
  The epitope for BC34 was shown to be included in the residues 196-211 amino acids of SOX10, which is QGGTA AIQ AH YKS AH identified as SEQ ID NO: 3. The epitope of the mouse monoclonal SOX 10 antibody, or a portion thereof, may be a useful antigen for the production of new monoclonal antibodies, including production in species other than mouse (e.g. rabbit, goat, horse, chicken, etc.). Of course, a polyclonal antibody may specifically bind to an epitope in SEQ ID NO: 3, which relates to residues 196-211 of the SOX10 protein.  
  For direct ELISA protocol, the plates may be first coated with about ΙΟΟμΙ of SOX10 peptides at about 5μg/mL in coating buffer (pH about 9.5) overnight at about 4°C, followed by blocking (about 3% BSA) at about 200 μΐ/well for about 1 hour at room temperature. The plates may be incubated with purified SOX10 antibody at about 100 ng/mL and about 200 ng/mL separately for about 1 hour at about room temperature on an ELISA-plate shaker. Then the plates may be washed perhaps five times with PBST (about 300μ1Λνε11) followed by the addition of goat anti-mouse IgG-HRP to the plates and incubation for about 1 hour on a plate-shaker. The plates may then be washed with PBST 

 (about 300μ1Λνε11) and blotted to dry, and TMB may be added at about ΙΟΟμΙ /well, developed for about 5 min on a shaker, and may even be followed by a stop solution (about 50μ1 /well). Absorbance may be measured at about 450nm on an ELISA plate reader perhaps according to the manufacturer's recommendation.  
  For the dot blot assay, a nitrocellulose membrane may be blotted with about 1 μΐ at a concentration of about lmg/ml the peptide, quadruplicates per peptide. This membrane may be incubated for about 1 hour at room temperature until it may be completely dry. The membrane may be blocked with about 3% BSA in TBST (e.g., about 50 mM Tris, about 0.5 M NaCl, about 0.05% Tween-20, pH about 7.4) for about 1 hour at room temperature, then mouse anti SOX10 antibody [BC34] may be added at about 200ng/ml for about lhr at RT in TBST. Then the membrane may be washed for about 3 times (about 10 minutes each) in TBST on an orbital shaker, followed by incubating with secondary antibody goat anti mouse IgGl-AP for about 1 hour at room temperature in TBST. The membrane may be washed perhaps about 3 times (about 10 minutes each) in TBST on a rocker. The binding may be detected by adding Western Glo Chemiluminescent detection reagents and exposing to film.  
  IHC method with anti-SOXlO BC34: Immunohistochemistry using anti-SOXlO antibodies such as the mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 may be performed on formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue samples using procedures generally known to those in the art, as generally exemplified by the following non-limiting examples (e.g., washes with Tris-buffered saline, pH about 7.6, between steps):  
  1) Sections (~5μιη) of formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissues may be mounted on commercially available microscope slides perhaps coated with polylysine.  
  2) Sections may be deparaffinized (using xylenes or a xylene- substitute) and may be rehydrated perhaps through a series of alcohol/water solutions, perhaps followed by blocking of endogenous peroxidases perhaps with about 3% hydrogen peroxide solution. 
 3) Samples may be subjected to heat-induced antigen retrieval using a citrate buffer in a pressure cooker (Diva, Decloaking Chamber; Biocare Medical) and may be heated to about 125°C for about 30 seconds. [Other antigen retrieval methods known to those skilled in the art (e.g., steamer, microwave oven, enzyme, or the like) may also be acceptable.] Tissues may be allowed to cool for about 10 minutes and then may be rinsed with deionized water. 

 4) A protein blocking solution (Background Punisher, Biocare Medical) may be applied to the tissue for about 10 minutes.  
  5) The SOX10 antibody BC34 may be applied in a tris-buffered solution (pH about 6.2) with bovine serum albumin as carrier protein for about 30 minutes. The SOX10 antibody BC34 may be diluted perhaps 1 : 10,000.  
  6) Detection of the SOX10 antibody perhaps with a horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated secondary antibody (MACH 2 Mouse HRP-Polymer Detection, Biocare Medical) may be accomplished by application of goat anti-mouse-HRP conjugate for about 30 minutes. In another example, detection of the SOX10 antibody perhaps with a horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated secondary antibody (MACH 4 Universal 
 HRP-Polymer Detection, Biocare Medical) may be accomplished in two steps. An initial application of a rabbit anti-mouse IgG antibody for about 10 minutes may be followed by incubation with a goat anti-rabbit-HRP conjugate for about 10 minutes. 
 7) In perhaps a final detection step, 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) in buffer perhaps containing about 0.02% hydrogen peroxide (Betazoid DAB, Biocare Medical) may be applied. The oxidation of DAB through an HRP-mediated mechanism may result in precipitation of a brown, chromogenic product, perhaps allowing identification of sites of SOX10 expression.  
  8) Slides may be briefly counterstained perhaps in a modified Mayer's hematoxylin.  
  IHC method with anti-SOXlO BC34 using Alkaline phosphatase detection and 
 Fast Red chromogen: IHC using BC34 may also be performed as described above, using an alkaline phosphatase (AP) conjugated secondary antibody and a Fast Red chromogen. For example, detection of the SOX10 antibody perhaps with an AP conjugated secondary antibody (MACH 2 Mouse AP-Polymer Detection, Biocare Medical) may be accomplished by application of goat anti-mouse-AP conjugate for about 30 minutes. In perhaps a final detection step, a naphthol phosphate salt (e.g. naphthol phosphate AS-TR) and a diazonium salt (e.g. Fast Red KL) in buffer (Vulcan Fast Red, Biocare Medical) may be applied. The cleavage of the phosphate by alkaline phosphatase, followed by reaction of the resulting naphthol with the diazonium salt may result in precipitation of a red, chromogenic product, perhaps allowing identification of sites of SOX10 expression. 

 IHC method with SOX10 antibody BC34, Tyrosinase antibody T311, and MART-1 antibodies M2-7C10 and M2-9E3: IHC may be performed as described above using a primary antibody cocktail perhaps comprised of SOX 10 [BC34], Tyrosinase antibody [T311], and perhaps even MART-1 antibodies [M2-7C10] and [M2-9E3]. Detection of each antibody may be accomplished with a horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated secondary antibody (MACH 4 Universal HRP-Polymer Detection, Biocare Medical) perhaps in two steps. An initial application of a rabbit anti-mouse IgG antibody for about 10 minutes may be followed by incubation with a goat anti-rabbit-HRP conjugate for about 10 minutes, followed by visualization with DAB.  
  Results of IHC Staining with mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34: 
 Using the above protocol, a variety of normal and neoplastic tissues were evaluated for SOX10 expression using BC34 and in some cases compared to staining patterns using a RP anti-SOXlO antibody. All antibodies were optimized for titer (e.g., concentration) using methods well known to those in the art. For example, various antibody titers were evaluated to maximize staining intensity, perhaps while minimizing or even eliminating background staining. For each antibody, the titer that provided the maximum staining intensity, perhaps with the minimal background staining, was used.  
  Staining with BC34 may be observed in various cases of melanoma, as shown in Figures 1-3 and 63-65. In fact, melanoma metastatic to the lymph node may also be identified by BC34 (Figures 4 and 66). In some cases, particularly cases of melanoma, where endogenous pigments of melanocytes may be present, staining with a red chromogen may be advantageous. BC34 may stain cases of balloon cell melanoma (Figures 5 and 67), epithelioid melanoma (Figures 6 and 68), perivascular melanoma (Figures 8-9 and 70-71), rhabdoid melanoma (Figures 10 and 72), sarcomatoid melanoma (Figures 11 and 73), and plasmacytoid melanoma (Figures 12 and 74).  
  Staining with BC34 may also be observed in peripheral nerve tumors (Figures 7 and 69), as well as cases of nevus (Figures 13-15 and 75-77). Schwannomas may also stain with BC34 (figures 16 and 78).  
  In normal tissues, Argentaffin cells in normal colon, normal brain neurons, myoepothelial cells of breast glands, normal skin, and normal salivary glands may stain with BC34 (Figures 17-21 and 79-83). 

 Staining with BC34 may be superior to that of the RP anti-SOXlO antibody, particularly in cases where BC34 exhibits greater sensitivity, or perhaps increased staining intensity, as well as cases where BC34 is perhaps more specific. For example, BC34 may exhibit more intense staining in cases of breast cancer (Figures 22 and 84), compared to the RP anti-SOXlO antibody (Figures 23 and 85).  
  In lung adenocarcinoma, BC34 may demonstrate improved specificity compared to the RP anti-SOXlO antibody. For example, staining with BC34 may be reduced, or perhaps absent (Figures 24 and 86), in cases where the RP anti-SOXlO antibody produces cystoplasmic staining, which would not be consistent with SOX10 expression (Figures 25 and 87).  
  Cases of melanoma may also demonstrate more intense staining with BC34 (Figures 26, 28, 30, 88, 90, and 92), compared to that of the RP anti-SOXlO antibody on the same specimens, where staining may be reduced, or perhaps even absent, when using the RP anti- SOX10 antibody (Figures 27, 29, 31, 89, 91, 93).  
  In normal bladder, BC34 may demonstrate improved specificity compared to the RP anti-SOXlO antibody. For example, staining with BC34 may be reduced, or perhaps absent (Figures 32 and 94), in cases where the RP anti-SOXlO antibody produces cystoplasmic staining, which would not be consistent with SOX10 expression (Figures 33 and 95).  
  BC34 may also stain other neoplastic tissues, including perhaps intestinal carcinoids (Figures 34 and 96), alveolus rhabdomyosarcoma (Figures 35 and 97), astrocytoma (Figures 36 and 98), breast cancer (Figures 37 and 99), leiomyosarcoma (Figures 38 and 100). BC34 may also stain benign schwannoma (Figures 41 and 103).  
  Staining with BC34 may also be observed in desmoplastic melanomas (Figures 33- 34) and spindle cell melanomas (Figures 42-44 and 104-106).  
  Melanoma may also be stained by Tyrosinase and MART-1, including a cocktail of 
 Tyrosinase + MART-1 (Figures 45 and 107). BC34 may also stain the same cases of melanoma (Figures 46 and 108). A cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 may stain melanoma (Figures 47, 48, 109, 110) and perhaps be more sensitive than S 100 alone, or Tyrosinase + MART-1 alone (Table 4). In cases such as that shown in Figures 48 and 110, SOX10 and Tyrosinase + MART-1 may stain different areas of the tumor, which may be identified by the nuclear staining of SOX 10 and the cytoplasmic staining of 

 Tyrosinase + MART-1. Differential staining in a tumor may perhaps indicate the presence of more than one clone in the tumor.  
  Some cases of melanoma may stain with BC34 (Figures 49 and 111), but perhaps not with Tyrosinase + MART-1 (Figures 50 and 112). Other cases of melanoma may stain with Tyrosinase + MART-1 (Figures 51 and 113), but perhaps not with BC34 (Figures 52 and 114).  
  The cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 may stain cases of melanoma that are perhaps not stained with S lOO (Figures 53, 54, 115 and 116). In this way, the cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 may be more sensitive than S lOO.  
  The cocktail of SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 may also be more specific than S lOO. SOX10 [BC34] + Tyrosinase + MART-1 does not stain lymph node, brain, or bone marrow (Figures 55-57 and 117-119). One disadvantage of S lOO is staining observed in tissues other than melanoma, including normal lymph node, brain, and bone marrow (Figures 58-60 and 120-122). Lymph node, brain and bone marrow may be common site for melanoma metastasis. Staining of S lOO in these normal tissues may make diagnosis difficult, particularly when a pathologist is attempting to identify a small metastasis, or perhaps even result in an incorrect diagnosis.  
  Anti-SOXlO antibody [BC34] was evaluated by IHC on a variety of normal and neoplastic tissues. Typically, a cut-off of > about 5% of tumor cells staining was employed as the criteria to determine a case as "positive" for SOX10, and conversely < about 5% of tumor cells staining as the criteria to determine a case "negative."  
  In normal tissues (n=34), BC34 stained skin melanocytes, myoepithelial cells in breast and salivary gland, peripheral nerves, and brain (Table 3). BC34 also stained argentaffin cells throughout the digestive tract. BC34 stained 200/219 (91.3%) melanomas (Table 4). Notably, 23/24 (95.8%) spindle cell and desmoplastic melanomas were positive for SOX10. In addition, there was 100% staining for schwannomas and nevi.  
  In neoplasms tested (n=587), SOX10 was expressed in 18/109 (16.5%) infiltrating ductal breast cancers, and in none of the following (n=426) other carcinomas, including lung, colon, prostate, bladder, kidney, liver, esophagus, ovary, thyroid, adrenal, and testicular seminoma (Table 5). SOX10 was positive in 2/21 rhabdomyosarocomas, in 1/21 

 of leiomyosarcomas, and in 35% of CNS gliomas. Carcinoid tumors in the digestive tract and in the lung were all negative, except for staining of sustentacular cells.  
  In melanomas, a cocktail of SOX10, Tyrosinase and MART-1 may be more sensitive than SOX10 alone, S lOO alone, or even the cocktail of Tyrosinase + MART-1 (Table 6). Staining of Tyrosinase and MART-1 may be cytoplasmic (Figure 39A) and staining of SOX10 may be nuclear (Figures 46 and 108). The cocktail of SOX10 + Tyrosinase + MART-1 may show a combination of nuclear staining (SOX10) and cytoplasmic staining (MART-1 and Tyrosinase) (Figures 47, 48, 109, 110). In some cases, SOX10 may be positive and Tyrosinase + MART-1 may be negative (Figures 49, 50, 111, and 112), or vice versa (Figures 51, 52, 113, and 114). The cocktail of SOX10 + Tyrosinase + MART-1 may be positive in cases where S lOO is negative (Figures 53, 54, 115, 116). One case was found to be perhaps positive for S lOO and negative for SOX10 + Tyrosinase + MART-1. SOX10 [BC34] may also be negative in lymph node, brain and bone marrow (Figures 55-57 and 117-119), whereas S lOO may stain these tissues (Figures 58-60 and 120-122).  
 Table 3: Normal Tissues Types (n=34)  
 
 
 
  *A few argentaffin cells throughout the digestive tract and/or a few/sparse neuroendocrine type cells were stained for SOX10. 

 Table 4: Melanoma 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  *SOX10 was expressed primarily in astrocytoma (24/39), and in limited cases of glioblastoma, meduUoblastoma, and malignant ependymoma. **(<!%) 

 Table 6: Comparison of SOX10, S100, Tyrosinase + MART-1, and Tyrosinase  
  +MART-1 + SOX10  
 
 
 
  These examples demonstrate the advantages of BC34 and perhaps show that BC34 has several advantages over known antibodies, including superior sensitivity or specificity, possibly resulting in cleaner staining patterns, with less background or undesirable cytoplasmic staining.  
  In some embodiments of the present invention, anti-SOXlO antibodies such as the mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 may be suitable for use in many variations of the above protocols and other methods known to those in the art. Specimens stained with BC34 may be archived using a permanent mounting media and a coverslip. The antibody BC34 may also be used in an automated staining instrument, using standard protocols. One can also envision the use of many alternative detection methods (e.g., fluorescence), detection enzymes (e.g., alkaline phosphatase (AP), beta-galactosidase, or the like), and perhaps even chromogens (e.g., 3-amino-9-ethylcarbazole, 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate, 3,3\5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine, 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl- -D-glucuronide, or the like), generally known to those in the art.  
  An epitope of an anti-SOXlO antibody such as mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34, or a portion thereof, may be a useful antigen for the production of new monoclonal antibodies, including production in species other than mouse (e.g. rabbit, goat, horse, chicken, etc.) as one skilled in the art would understand. In fact, the particular epitope of BC34 may be one of the features that contributes to its advantageous properties.  
  While the use of anti-SOXlO antibodies such as BC34 in immunohistochemistry of formalin-fixed paraffin embedded tissues may be described here, its utility in other immunoassays may be readily envisioned and are meant to be included in this application. In particular, it may be well known that many of the same reagents used in IHC of FFPE 

 may also be used in IHC of frozen-tissue sections. Anti-SOXlO antibodies such as BC34 may also be useful in other immunoassays, including ELISA, perhaps using generally known methods. In another aspect of the invention, perhaps related to IHC, an anti-SOXlO antibody may be used in conjunction with one or more additional primary antibodies as part of a cocktail, to perform a "double- stain" procedure (also described as multi-stain or even multiplex). Such "double-stain" procedures may be generally well known in the art; however, the best combinations of primary antibodies for a particular diagnostic application may not be known.  
  In this method, anti-SOXlO antibodies such as a mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 could be combined with one or more antibodies in a single primary antibody cocktail, perhaps suitable for simultaneous application to a specimen. The antibodies may be derived from a mouse host or a rabbit host or the like. The antibodies may be monoclonal or polyclonal. In embodiments, an antibody cocktail may be used in a double-stain IHC procedure to produce two or more colored stains that may identify the presence or absence of target protein antigens in the tissue specimen. For example, in embodiments where an antibody cocktail may be comprised of mouse and rabbit antibodies, a detection system may include an anti-mouse antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and perhaps even an anti-rabbit antibody conjugated to alkaline phosphatase (AP) may be used to produce the two-color stain. 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) may be used to produce a brown stain, perhaps facilitated by HRP, and it may identify the presence or absence, and/or location, of mouse antibodies bound in the specimen; Fast Red may be used to produce a fuchsia/red stain, perhaps facilitated by AP, and it may identify the presence or absence, and/or location, of rabbit antibodies in the specimen. In other embodiments, a detection system may include an anti-mouse antibody conjugated to AP and an anti-rabbit antibody conjugated to HRP which may be used to produce a two-color stain that may identify the presence or absence, and/or location of the mouse antibodies with a red stain and the rabbit antibodies with a brown stain, perhaps when Fast Red and DAB may be used as chromogens. In some embodiments, an anti-mouse antibody conjugated to HRP and 

 perhaps an anti-rabbit antibody conjugated to AP may be applied to the specimen as a cocktail, in a single solution, or they may be applied in separate, sequential steps.  
  The anti-mouse or anti-rabbit antibodies comprising the antibody-enzyme conjugates may be derived from a different host species, including, but not limited to mouse, rabbit, chicken, horse, rat, goat, sheep, or the like. A primary antibody may be from a variety of host species, including, but not limited to mouse, rabbit, chicken, horse, rat, goat, sheep, or the like. In embodiments, an antibody may include an antibody-enzyme conjugate and a primary antibody could be obtained from two different host species. Chromogens other than DAB and/or Fast Red may be used as well.  
  Multiple alternatives to a double-staining method are possible, including but not limited to the use of more than two antibodies, the use of species other than mouse and rabbit, other chromogens and detection systems, a different order of detection steps, and perhaps even modifications resulting in three or more colors (which may require a denaturing step).  
  In some embodiments, a single color stain may be used for a primary antibody cocktail. In one example, if the primary antibody cocktail is comprised of antibodies all derived from the same host species, then a single detection system may be used to stain for the presence of all of the antibodies with a single color. The presence or absence of each antibody may be determined based on cellular localization, or perhaps such determination is not necessary and the staining may be interpreted effectively without identifying the presence or absence of each antibody. For example, mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 may be combined with mouse monoclonal anti-MARTl in a primary antibody cocktail and used in an IHC procedure with anti-mouse conjugated HRP detection and DAB for visualization, to produce a brown stain. In another aspect, a primary antibody cocktail comprised of two or more antibodies from different host species may be used in a similar manner to produce a single color stain. For example, mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO BC34 may be combined with rabbit polyclonal anti-S lOO antibody and used in an IHC procedure with anti-mouse conjugated HRP and anti-rabbit conjugated HRP, and DAB for visualization, to produce a brown stain.  
  Certain steps of an IHC procedure may be performed sequentially or simultaneously, perhaps by using a cocktail of reagents, as known to those skilled in the art. For example, 

 antibodies described in a primary antibody cocktail may alternatively be applied in sequential steps of one or more antibodies. Similarly, detection reagents may be applied simultaneously in reagent cocktail or separate reagents in sequential steps.  
  Antibodies that may be useful for diagnosis when combined with an anti-SOXlO antibody such as a mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 in a primary antibody cocktail for use in multi-stain procedures include:  
 
 
 
  *The listed color of each stain may be a result of a detection system that may include an anti-mouse antibody perhaps conjugated to HRP and even an anti-rabbit antibody perhaps conjugated to AP, perhaps even with DAB and Fast Red as chromogens, which may result in brown staining for mouse antibodies and red staining for rabbit antibodies. Alternatively, the detection system may include an anti-mouse antibody perhaps conjugated to AP and even an anti-rabbit antibody perhaps conjugated to HRP, perhaps even with DAB and Fast Red as chromogens, which may result in red staining for mouse antibodies and brown staining for rabbit antibodies. Other color combinations may be obtained using other detection systems or chromogens and all are meant to be included in this disclosure.  
  In some embodiments, reagents may be applied sequentially in a fashion to produce a double stain, even perhaps when using antibodies from the same host species. For example, mouse monoclonal BC34 could be applied, followed by perhaps anti-mouse-HRP detection and DAB chromogen steps. After a denaturing step, perhaps using an acidic solution, a second mouse monoclonal antibody may be applied, perhaps a mouse monoclonal anti-nestin antibody or a mouse monoclonal anti-MARTl antibody, followed by perhaps anti-mouse-AP detection and Fast Red chromogen steps, to product a two color stain. 

 In some embodiments, a cocktail of antibodies derived from the same host species may be used, resulting in a single color stain. For example, a cocktail of mouse monoclonal SOX10 [BC34], mouse monoclonal Tyrosinase [T311], and mouse monoclonals MART-1 [M2-7C10] and [M2-9E3] may be applied and detected by anti-mouse-HRP and DAB, or perhaps anti-mouse- AP and Fast Red. Other embodiments may include an antibody cocktail of SOX10 and Tyrosinase, or perhaps SOX10 and MART-1. Mouse monoclonal SOX10 may also be combined with rabbit polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies of Tyrosinase or MART-1 in any of the combinations described above, perhaps even in a double stain procedure. Antibody cocktails of SOX10, Tyrosinase and/or MART-1 may be superior to other potential markers of melanoma, including perhaps S 100. SOX10, Tyrosinase and MART-1 may be more sensitive than S 100 in melanoma, perhaps because SOX10 may stain desmoplastic melanoma and spindle cell melanoma and S 100 may not stain these types. SOX10, Tyrosinase and MART-1 may also be more specific than S 100, as they may not stain brain, lymph node or bone marrow, common sites for melanoma metastases, in the way that S 100 does, perhaps aiding in the identification of micro-metastases in these sites. In certain embodiments, clones other than those used in the examples (including other clones of SOX10 other than BC34) may be suitable and perhaps interchangeable, or perhaps even superior to the clones used in the examples.  
  In many embodiments, antibodies that bind cytokeratin markers may be used in different combinations, and in some cases, interchangeably, as known to those skilled in the art. For example, CK5 may perhaps be interchangeable with CK5/6 or CK5/14. Similarly, HMWCK (high molecular weight cytokeratin) may be used interchangeably with CK5/6 or CK5/14.  
  In many cases, diagnosis may often be performed on limited tissue samples from cytology or a biopsy, and it may be important to conserve tissue for further molecular testing; therefore, an efficient approach to diagnosis that consumes minimal tissue, but provides optimal specificity and/or sensitivity may be preferred. A method that provides useful diagnostic information, while consuming minimal tissue from the specimen, perhaps by use of an antibody cocktail, or conceivably by the feature of improved sensitivity or specificity, may be preferred. 

 An anti-SOXlO antibody such as a mouse monoclonal anti-SOXlO antibody BC34 may be specific for detection of SOX 10 and may be useful in immunohistochemical procedures for diagnosis of several types of cancers in human tissue samples. In particular, anti-SOXlO antibody such as BC34 may have advantages over the RP anti-SOXlO antibody, including but not limited to greater sensitivity, more intense staining, greater specificity and cleaner staining, with perhaps less background staining, as well as perhaps a lack of staining of carcinoids and perhaps a lack of staining of lung adenocarcinoma.  
  As but one example of an immunoassay method, embodiments of the present invention may provide obtaining tissue from an animal or human to be tested (6), fixing or freezing said tissue (7), treating said fixed or frozen tissue to unmask epitopes to SOX10 (8), contacting said treated tissue with an antibody or fragment thereof as discussed herein in an amount and under conditions such that an antibody or fragment thereof binds to a SOX 10 protein if the protein is present in said tissue (9); and perhaps even detecting the presences of said bound antibodies (10), as schematically represented in Figure 62.  
  Figure 61 shows a schematic summary of various embodiments of the present invention including a kit (5) which may provide an antibody, fragment thereof, portion thereof, in a composition or even in a cocktail, perhaps even provided from a hybridoma, the antibody (1) or the like may be contacted with a biological sample (2) to form at least one antibody-antigen complex (3) which may then be detected with a detector (4).  
  The present invention may provide, in embodiments, a diagnostic or even prognostic test kit which may include an antibody or fragment thereof (as discussed herein) with an antibody detection element of the antibody or fragment thereof perhaps when bound to an antigen. This may provide a method of contacting a biological sample with an antibody or fragment thereof and even detecting binding of, or even the presence of the antibody or fragment thereof bound to a protein or with an antigen in the biological sample perhaps using an antibody detection element. Embodiments may provide an immunoassay method for detect a SOX10 protein in a mammal or human perhaps by obtaining a tissue from an animal or a human to be tested, contacting the tissue with an antibody or fragment thereof in accordance with the various embodiments presented herein perhaps in an amount and under conditions such that the antibody or fragment thereof may bind to a SOX10 protein if the protein is present in the tissue; and even detecting the presence of bound antibodies. A 

 biological sample may include but is not limited to blood, urine, urothelial tissue, transitional cell tissue, bladder tissue, normal tissue, neoplastic tissue, kidney tissue, ovarian tissue, thyroid tissue, endometrial tissue, renal tissue, tonsil tissue, pancreas tissue, colon tissue, lymph node tissue, neoplastic pancreatic tissue, stomach tissue, prostate tissue, lung tissue, breast tissue, or the like perhaps depending on the antibody or even cocktail being used.  
  It is noted that use of terms such as SOX10, SOX10 antibody, BC34, or the like may relate to anti-SOXlO antibodies or the like as appropriate as one skilled in the art would understand. It is noted that the components of an antibody cocktail may be denoted with a "+". (e.g. "MART-1 + Tyrosinase" identifies a cocktail of MART-1 and Tyrosinase antibodies.) Also, in some cases an antibody reagent may include more than one antibody clone to the same target (e.g. MART-1 may include two anti-MART- 1 mouse monoclonal antibodies, clone M2-7C10 and clone M2-9E3).  
  The article, "A Newly Developed Mouse Monoclonal SOX 10 Antibody is a Highly Sensitive and Specific Marker for Malignant Melanoma, Including Spindle Cell and Desmoplastic Melanomas" by Tacha, David; Qi, Weiman; Bremer, Ryan; Yu Charlie; Hoang, Laura; Ra, Seong; and Robbins, Bruce. Biocare Medical, Concord, CA, San Diego Pathologists Medical Group, San Diego, CA, has been attached to this application and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.  
  As can be easily understood from the foregoing, the basic concepts of the present invention may be embodied in a variety of ways. It involves both antibody techniques as well as devices to accomplish the appropriate antibody. In this application, the antibody techniques are disclosed as part of the results shown to be achieved by the various devices described and as steps which are inherent to utilization. They are simply the natural result of utilizing the devices as intended and described. In addition, while some devices are disclosed, it should be understood that these not only accomplish certain methods but also can be varied in a number of ways. Importantly, as to all of the foregoing, all of these facets should be understood to be encompassed by this disclosure.  
  The discussion included in this application is intended to serve as a basic description. The reader should be aware that the specific discussion may not explicitly describe all embodiments possible; many alternatives are implicit. It also may not fully explain the 

 generic nature of the invention and may not explicitly show how each feature or element can actually be representative of a broader function or of a great variety of alternative or equivalent elements. Again, these are implicitly included in this disclosure. Where the invention is described in device- oriented terminology, each element of the device implicitly performs a function. Apparatus claims may not only be included for the device described, but also method or process claims may be included to address the functions the invention and each element performs. Neither the description nor the terminology is intended to limit the scope of the claims that will be included in any subsequent patent application.  
  It should also be understood that a variety of changes may be made without departing from the essence of the invention. Such changes are also implicitly included in the description. They still fall within the scope of this invention. A broad disclosure encompassing the explicit embodiment(s) shown, the great variety of implicit alternative embodiments, and the broad methods or processes and the like are encompassed by this disclosure and may be relied upon when drafting the claims for any subsequent patent application. It should be understood that such language changes and broader or more detailed claiming may be accomplished at a later date (such as by any required deadline) or in the event the applicant subsequently seeks a patent filing based on this filing. With this understanding, the reader should be aware that this disclosure is to be understood to support any subsequently filed patent application that may seek examination of as broad a base of claims as deemed within the applicant's right and may be designed to yield a patent covering numerous aspects of the invention both independently and as an overall system.  
  Further, each of the various elements of the invention and claims may also be achieved in a variety of manners. Additionally, when used or implied, an element is to be understood as encompassing individual as well as plural structures that may or may not be physically connected. This disclosure should be understood to encompass each such variation, be it a variation of an embodiment of any apparatus embodiment, a method or process embodiment, or even merely a variation of any element of these. Particularly, it should be understood that as the disclosure relates to elements of the invention, the words for each element may be expressed by equivalent apparatus terms or method terms— even if only the function or result is the same. Such equivalent, broader, or even more generic terms should be considered to be encompassed in the description of each element or action. 

 Such terms can be substituted where desired to make explicit the implicitly broad coverage to which this invention is entitled. As but one example, it should be understood that all actions may be expressed as a means for taking that action or as an element which causes that action. Similarly, each physical element disclosed should be understood to encompass a disclosure of the action which that physical element facilitates. Regarding this last aspect, as but one example, the disclosure of a "detection" or "detector" should be understood to encompass disclosure of the act of "detecting"— whether explicitly discussed or not— and, conversely, were there effectively disclosure of the act of "detecting", such a disclosure should be understood to encompass disclosure of a "detector" and even a "means for detecting." Such changes and alternative terms are to be understood to be explicitly included in the description. Further, each such means (whether explicitly so described or not) should be understood as encompassing all elements that can perform the given function, and all descriptions of elements that perform a described function should be understood as a non-limiting example of means for performing that function.  
  Any law, statutes, regulations, or rules mentioned in this application for patent; or patents, publications, or other references mentioned in this application for patent are hereby incorporated by reference. Any priority case(s) claimed by this application is hereby appended and hereby incorporated by reference. In addition, as to each term used it should be understood that unless its utilization in this application is inconsistent with a broadly supporting interpretation, common dictionary definitions should be understood as incorporated for each term and all definitions, alternative terms, and synonyms such as contained in the Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, second edition are hereby incorporated by reference. Finally, all references listed in the list below or other information statement filed with the application are hereby appended and hereby incorporated by reference, however, as to each of the above, to the extent that such information or statements incorporated by reference might be considered inconsistent with the patenting of this/these invention(s) such statements are expressly not to be considered as made by the applicant(s). 

 I. U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  III. NON-PATENT LITERATURE DOCUMENTS  
  "SOX10 expression in malignant melanoma, carcinoma, and normal tissues." Mohamed A, Gonzalez RS, Lawson D, Wang J, Cohen C. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2012; 
 Ahead of Epub  
  "The SOXlO/SoxlO gene from human and mouse: sequence, expression, and  
  transactivation by the encoded HMG domain transcription factor." Pusch C, Hustert E, 
 Pfeifer D, et. al. Hum Genet. 1998;103: 115-123  
  "The importance of having your SOX on: role of SOX10 in the development of neural crest-derived melanocytes and glia." Mollaaghababa R, Pavan WJ. Oncogene.  
  2003;22:3024-3034  
  "Expression of the SOX10 gene during human development." Bondurand N, Kobetz A, 
 Pingault V, et. al. FEBS Lett. 1998;432: 168-172  
  "Oligodendroglial-specific transcriptional factor SOX10 is ubiquitously expressed in human gliomas." Bannykh SI, Stolt CC, Kim J, Perry A, Wegner M. J Neurooncol. 2006 Jan;76(2): 115-27  
  "The transcription factor SoxlO is a key regulator of peripheral glial development."  
  Britsch S, Goerich DE, Riethmacher D, et. al. Genes Dev. 2001;15:66-78  
  "Oligodendroglial-specific transcriptional factor SOX10 is ubiquitously expressed in human gliomas." Bannykh SI, Stolt CC, Kim J, Perry A, Wegner M. J Neurooncol. 2006 Jan;76(2): 115-27  
  "Incidence and survival of desmoplastic melanoma in the United States, 1992-2007."  
  Feng Z, Wu X, Chen V, et. al. J Cutan Pathol. 2011;38:616-624  
  Desmoplastic malignant melanoma." Conley J, Lattes R, Orr W. Cancer. 1971;28:914- 
 916  
  "Desmoplasia and neurotropism. Prognostic variables in patients with stage I melanoma." 
 Baer SC, Schultz D, Synnestvedt M, et. al. Cancer. 1995;76:2242-2247  
  "Subclassification of desmoplastic melanoma: pure and mixed variants have significantly different capacities for lymph node metastasis." George E, McClain SE, Slingluff CL, et. al. J Cutan Pathol. 2009;36:425-432  
  "SOX10 expression distinguishes desmoplastic melanoma from its histologic mimics." Palla B, Su A, Binder S, Dry S. Am J Dermatopathol. 2013 Jul;35(5):576-81 

 "SoxlO is expressed in primary melanocytic neoplasms of various histologies, but not in fibrohistiocytic proliferations and histiocytoses." Shin J, Vincent JG, Cuda JD, et. al. J Am 
 Acad Dermatol. 2012 Oct;67(4):717-26  
  "MCW melanoma cocktail for the evaluation of micrometastases in sentinel lymph nodes of cutaneous melanoma." Shidham VB, Chang CC. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2005  
 May;5(3):281-90  
  "Microphthalmia transcription factor in the immunohistochemical diagnosis of metastatic melanoma: comparison with four other melanoma markers." Miettinen M, Fernandez M, Franssila K, et al. Am J Surg Pathol. 2001 Feb;25(2):205-11  
  "SoxlO: a pan-schwannian and melanocytic marker." Nonaka D, Chiriboga L, Rubin BP. 
 Am J Surg Pathol. 2008;32: 1291-1298  
  "Neural crest transcription factor SoxlO is preferentially expressed in triple-negative and metaplastic breast carcinomas." Cimino-Mathews A, Subhawong AP, Elwood H, et. al. Hum Pathol. 2013 Jun;44(6):959-65  
  "SoxlO-positive sustentacular cells in neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung." Tsuta  
  K, Raso MG, Kalhor N, et. al. Histopathology. 2011 Jan;58(2):276-85  
  "SOX10 and S 100 in the diagnosis of soft-tissue neoplasms." Karamchandani JR, Nielsen TO, van de Rijn M, West RB. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2012 Oct;20(5):445- 
 50  
  United States Provisional Application Number 61/706,312 filed September 27, 2012; entitled Systems and Methods for Anti-Uroplakin II Antibodies  
  United States Nonprovisional Application Number 13/830,473 filed March 14, 2013; entitled Systems and Methods for Anti-Uroplakin III Antibodies  
  International Application Number PCT/US2013/062043m filed 09/26/2013; Entitled Anti- Uroplakin II Antibodies Systems and Methods  
  Nonaka D, Chiriboga L, Rubin BP. SoxlO: a pan-schwannian and melanocytic marker. Am J Surg Pathol. 2008;32: 1291-1298  
  Karamchandani JR, et. al. SOX10 and S 100 in the diagnosis of soft-tissue neoplasms. 
 Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2012 Oct;20(5):445-50  
  Buonaccorsi JN, Prieto VG, Torres-Cabala C, Suster S, Plaza JA. Diagnostic Utility and Comparative Immunohistochemical Analysis of ΜΠΤ-1 and SOX10 to Distinguish Melanoma In Situ and Actinic Keratosis: A Clinicopathological and Immunohistochemical 
 Study of 70 Cases. Am J Dermatopathol. 2013 Jun 18. [Epub ahead of print]  
  Agnarsdottir M, Sooman L, Bolander A, et. al. SOX10 expression in superficial spreading and nodular malignant melanomas. Melanoma Res. 2010 Dec;20(6):468-78  
  Seong I, Min HJ, Lee JH, et. al. SoxlO controls migration of B16F10 melanoma cells through multiple regulatory target genes. PLoS One. 2012;7(2)  
  Ramos-Herberth FI, Karamchandani J, Kim J, Dadras SS. SOX10 immuno staining distinguishes desmoplastic melanoma from excision scar. J Cutan Pathol. 2010  
 Sep;37(9):944-52  
  Ivanov SV, Panaccione A, Nonaka D, et. al. Diagnostic SOX10 gene signatures in salivary adenoid cystic and breast basal-like carcinomas. Br J Cancer. 2013 Jul 23;109(2):444-51 United States Provisional Application Number 61/886,448 filed October 03, 2013; entitled 
 Systems and Methods for Anti-SOXl 0 Antibodies  
  United States Provisional Application Number 61/941,907 filed February 19, 2014;  
 entitled Systems and Methods for Anti-SOXl 0 Antibodies  
  Shidham, et al., MCW melanoma cocktail for the evaluation of micrometastases in sentinel lymph nodes of cutaneous melanoma; expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2005 May; 5(3):281-90 
 Miettinin M, Fernandez M, Franssila K, et al.Am J Surge Pathol. 2001 Feb;25(2):205-l l; 

 Microphthalmia transcription factor in the immunohistochemical diagnosis of metastatic melanoma:comparison with four other melanoma markers  
 Thus, the applicant(s) should be understood to have support to claim and make a statement of invention to at least: i) each of the antibody devices as herein disclosed and described, ii) the related methods disclosed and described, iii) similar, equivalent, and even implicit variations of each of these devices and methods, iv) those alternative designs which accomplish each of the functions shown as are disclosed and described, v) those alternative designs and methods which accomplish each of the functions shown as are implicit to accomplish that which is disclosed and described, vi) each feature, component, and step shown as separate and independent inventions, vii) the applications enhanced by the various systems or components disclosed, viii) the resulting products produced by such systems or components, ix) each system, method, and element shown or described as now applied to any specific field or devices mentioned, x) methods and apparatuses substantially as described hereinbefore and with reference to any of the accompanying examples, xi) an apparatus for performing the methods described herein comprising means for performing the steps, xii) the various combinations and permutations of each of the elements disclosed, xiii) each potentially dependent claim or concept as a dependency on each and every one of the independent claims or concepts presented, and xiv) all inventions described herein.  
  With regard to claims whether now or later presented for examination, it should be understood that for practical reasons and so as to avoid great expansion of the examination burden, the applicant may at any time present only initial claims or perhaps only initial claims with only initial dependencies. The office and any third persons interested in potential scope of this or subsequent applications should understand that broader claims may be presented at a later date in this case, in a case claiming the benefit of this case, or in any continuation in spite of any preliminary amendments, other amendments, claim language, or arguments presented, thus throughout the pendency of any case there is no intention to disclaim or surrender any potential subject matter. It should be understood that if or when broader claims are presented, such may require that any relevant prior art that may have been considered at any prior time may need to be re-visited since it is possible that to the extent any amendments, claim language, or arguments presented in this or any subsequent application are considered as made to avoid such prior art, such reasons may be eliminated 

 by later presented claims or the like. Both the examiner and any person otherwise interested in existing or later potential coverage, or considering if there has at any time been any possibility of an indication of disclaimer or surrender of potential coverage, should be aware that no such surrender or disclaimer is ever intended or ever exists in this or any subsequent application. Limitations such as arose in Hakim v. Cannon Avent Group, PLC, 479 F.3d 1313 (Fed. Cir 2007), or the like are expressly not intended in this or any subsequent related matter. In addition, support should be understood to exist to the degree required under new matter laws— including but not limited to European Patent Convention Article 123(2) and United States Patent Law 35 USC 132 or other such laws— to permit the addition of any of the various dependencies or other elements presented under one independent claim or concept as dependencies or elements under any other independent claim or concept. In drafting any claims at any time whether in this application or in any subsequent application, it should also be understood that the applicant has intended to capture as full and broad a scope of coverage as legally available. To the extent that insubstantial substitutes are made, to the extent that the applicant did not in fact draft any claim so as to literally encompass any particular embodiment, and to the extent otherwise applicable, the applicant should not be understood to have in any way intended to or actually relinquished such coverage as the applicant simply may not have been able to anticipate all eventualities; one skilled in the art, should not be reasonably expected to have drafted a claim that would have literally encompassed such alternative embodiments.  
  Further, if or when used, the use of the transitional phrase "comprising" is used to maintain the "open-end" claims herein, according to traditional claim interpretation. Thus, unless the context requires otherwise, it should be understood that the term "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", are intended to imply the inclusion of a stated element or step or group of elements or steps but not the exclusion of any other element or step or group of elements or steps. Such terms should be interpreted in their most expansive form so as to afford the applicant the broadest coverage legally permissible. The use of the phrase, "or any other claim" is used to provide support for any claim to be dependent on any other claim, such as another dependent claim, another independent claim, a previously listed claim, a subsequently listed claim, and the like. As one clarifying example, if a claim were dependent "on claim 20 or any other claim" or the like, it could be 

 re-drafted as dependent on claim 1, claim 15, or even claim 25 (if such were to exist) if desired and still fall with the disclosure. It should be understood that this phrase also provides support for any combination of elements in the claims and even incorporates any desired proper antecedent basis for certain claim combinations such as with combinations of method, apparatus, process, and the like claims.  
  Finally, any claims set forth at any time are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this description of the invention, and the applicant expressly reserves the right to use all of or a portion of such incorporated content of such claims as additional description to support any of or all of the claims or any element or component thereof, and the applicant further expressly reserves the right to move any portion of or all of the incorporated content of such claims or any element or component thereof from the description into the claims or vice-versa as necessary to define the matter for which protection is sought by this application or by any subsequent continuation, division, or continuation-in-part application thereof, or to obtain any benefit of, reduction in fees pursuant to, or to comply with the patent laws, rules, or regulations of any country or treaty, and such content incorporated by reference shall survive during the entire pendency of this application including any subsequent continuation, division, or continuation-in-part application thereof or any reissue or extension thereon. 

 
 A Newly Developed Mouse Monoclonal SOXIO Antibody is a Highly Sensitive and Specific Marker for Malignant Melanoma, Including Spindle Cell and Desmoplastic Melanomas 
 Tacha, David, 1  Q^Weiman, 1  Bremer, Ryan, 1  Yu Charlie 1 , Chu Joseph 1 , Hoang, Laura, 1  Ra, 
 2 2 1 2  
  Seong, and Robbins, Bruce. Biocare Medical, Concord, CA, San Diego Pathologists Medical Group, San Diego, CA  
 Context-Recent immunohistochemical studies have demonstrated SOXIO expression in malignant melanomas, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, a subset of breast carcinomas, and in gliomas. SOXIO has shown important clinical utility in its ability to detect desmoplastic and spindle cell melanomas. To date, most publications have employed a research-use-only (RUO) goat polyclonal SOXIO antibody for immunohistochemical staining.  
 Objective and Design. -We herein describe the development of a new mouse monoclonal SOXIO antibody [BC34] and evaluate its immunohistochemical staining profile in a wide range of normal and neoplastic tissues with an emphasis on melanoma.  
 Results.-In normal tissues, SOXIO was expressed in skin melanocytes and eccrine cells, breast myoepithelial and lobular epithelial cells, salivary gland myoepithelial cells, peripheral nerve Schwann cells, and central nervous system glial cells. SOXIO was expressed in 238/257 (92.6%) of melanomas, including 50/51 (98%) of both spindle cell and desmoplastic melanomas. SOXIO was expressed in 100% of nevi (20/20) and schwannomas (28/28). In other neoplasms, SOX10 was expressed in 18/109 (16.5%) of invasive ductal breast carcinomas. All other carcinomas were negative for SOX10. SOX10 was identified in 25/52 of central nervous system neoplasms primarily in astrocytomas 22/41 (53.7%), and in 4/99 (4.0%) of various sarcomas examined. 

 Conclusion.-In summary, we have shown that the newly developed mouse monoclonal SOX 10 antibody [BC34] is highly sensitive and specific for malignant melanoma, including desmoplastic and spindle cell melanomas.  
 Sry-related HMg-Box gene 10 (SOX 10) protein is a human transcription factor important for neural crest, peripheral nervous system, and melanocytic cell development. 1"4  The SOX10 nuclear protein has been shown to be widely expressed in normal human tissues, including melanocytes, Schwann cells, breast and salivary gland myoepithelial cells, and oligodendroglial cells. 1  " 3 ' 5 ' 6 It is also expressed in malignant tumors such as melanoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, and a subset of breast carcinomas. The majority of oligodendrogliomas, but also a large percentage of astrocytomas and glioblastomas have also been shown to express SOX10. ' SOX10 is also present in benign tumors such as melanocytic nevi, schwannomas, and neurofibromas. 1  " 3 ' 5 7  
  SOX10 is highly expressed in desmoplastic melanomas (DM) and spindle cell melanomas (SCM). 1  DM and SCM are usually positive for S-100 protein, but are often negative or only focally positive with other melanoma markers. DM is prone to misdiagnosis not only clinically, but also histologically. 9   
 There has been an extensive effort to find a suitable marker to differentiate spindle cell and desmoplastic melanomas from their pathologic mimics. Among melanocyte markers, SOX10 has shown most promise. To date, most publications have used an immunohistochemistry method using a research-use- only (RUO) goat polyclonal SOX10. 1 1 ' 7 1 1 1 1-  1 1 8 0  We herein describe the development of a new mouse monoclonal SOX10 hybridoma [BC34] and evaluate its sensitivity and specificity in normal and neoplastic tissues with an emphasis on melanoma and its subtypes 

 Materials and Methods Generation of SOX10 Hybridoma  
 Host Immunization: Female BALB/c (6 to about 8 weeks old) mice were immunized intraperitoneally with 100μ human SOX10 recombinant protein per mouse in complete Freund's adjuvant. Three weeks later, the mice were boosted with another 100μ human SOX10 per mouse in incomplete Freund's adjuvant 4 more times in 3 week intervals. Mice were bled from the tails and sera was collected and stored at -20°C.  
 Hybridoma: Hybridomas producing antibodies to SOX10 were generated by standard techniques from splenocytes of SOXlO-immunized BALB/c mice. Splenocytes from SOXlO-immunized mice were fused to P3-X63-Ag 8.653 myeloma cells. Hybridoma supernatants were screened by enzyme-link immunoassay (ELISA) for antibody reactivity to SOX10. Hybridoma clones were then selected based on their specificity and specificity on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections of targeted tissues.  
 ELISA: Host anti-sera immune responses to SOX10 were measured by ELISA and were measured in a microtiter plate reader. Anti-SOXlO antibodies [BC34] monoclonal antibody was isotyped using a mouse monoclonal antibody isotyping kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA). Clone BC34 isotype was identified as a mouse IgGl. The selected hybridoma cells from clone BC34 were cultured in culture medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. The hybridoma cells were injected into BALB/c mice to produce antibody ascites. The antibody ascites were further purified on a protein A affinity column. IgG concentration was measured spectrophotometrically.  
 Antibody Cross-reactivity tested by Western Blotting: The purified monoclonal antibody SOX10 was characterized by Western Blotting. Full-length human SOXlO-transfected cell lysates were separated using gel electrophoresis. Proteins blots were visualized by incubating SOX10 antibody for 60 minutes at room temperature, followed by incubating with peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse immunoglobulins (Figure 1).  
 Tissue Microarrays (TMA): TMA were constructed in-house and/or purchased from US Biomax (Rockville, MD). SOX10 [BC34] was evaluated in various types of malignant melanomas 

 including cutaneous melanoma, metastatic melanoma, spindle cell and desmoplastic melanoma, and melanoma variants (n=257), in in Schwannoma (n=28), and in nevi (compound, intradermal and junctional) (n=20). To test SOX10 for specificity, a normal tissue microarray (TMA) (n=34), whole tissues sections and TMAs in various neoplastic tissues (n=749) were evaluated.  
 Immunohistochemistry: Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded whole tissues and tissue TMA were deparaffinized and hydrated to water. Slides were then exposed to 5 minutes of hydrogen peroxide and washed in water. TMAs were immersed in an antigen retrieval solution (modified citrate buffer, pH 6.0) and placed in a pressure cooker (Decloaking Chamber, Biocare Medical, Concord, CA) at 125°C for 30 seconds. Tissue slides were cooled to 80°C and washed in water. SOX10 [BC34] was diluted and optimized at 1:100 in a modified tris diluent, pH 6.0, and tissues were incubated for 30 minutes and then rinsed in TBS. A goat anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase (HRP) or alkaline phosphatase polymer detection (MACH 2, Biocare Medical) was applied to tissue sections for 30 minutes at room temperature. Sections were then rinsed in TBS and sections were incubated for 5 minutes in 3,3'-Diaminobenzidine (DAB) or 10 minutes in fast red chromogen.  
 Scoring Method: Each case was deemed "positive" if more than >1% of cells were observed staining. Conversely, less than 1% of tumor cells staining determined a case "negative. Only nuclear staining was considered positive.  
 Results  
  Immunohistochemical staining with the monoclonal SOX 10 antibody produced strong nuclear staining in positive tissues with essentially no background staining. In normal tissues (n=34), SOX10 was expressed in, skin melanocytes, a portion of eccrine glandular epithelial and myoepithelial cells, breast myoepithelial cells as well as a subset of lobular epithelial cells, salivary gland myoepithelial cells, peripheral nerve, Schwann cells, and brain glial cells (Figures 2 A-F). SOX 10 also stained small numbers of stromal cells in the mucsularis propria and lamina propria throughout the digestive tract and rare stromal cells in other various tissues (total 

 population of cells stained was <1%); however, all other cell components in these tissues showed no expression and these tissues were therefore scored as negative (Table 1).  
 SOXIO was expressed in 238/257 (92.6%) melanomas (Figure 3A-D) (Table 2). Notably, 50/51 (98%) SCM and DM were positive for SOXIO (Figure 4 A-C) and SOXIO also stained sarcomatoid melanoma (Figure 4D). In benign cases, SOXIO was positive in schwannomas (28/28) examined (Table 4, Figure 5A), and in nevi (20/20) (Table 2 Figure 5B)  
  In other neoplasms (Table 3), SOX10 was expressed in 18/109 (16.5%) invasive ductal breast carcinomas (Figure 6A). SOX10 stained myoepithelial cells surrounding breast ductal carcinoma in situ (Figure 6B). All other carcinomas studied were negative for SOX10. Among sarcomas, SOX10 staining was observed in 1/22 (4.5%) leiomyosarcomas, in 2/22 (9.1%) rhabdomyosarcomas, and in 1/13 (7.7%) malignant fibrous histiocytomas, with all other sarcomas negative. SOX10 staining was identified in 25/52 central nervous system neoplasms primarily in astrocytomas 22/41 (53.7%) (Figure 6C, Table 3); and in limited cases was expressed in glioblastoma, and ependymoma (Table 3).  
  Evaluation of neuroendocrine tumors showed SOX10 to be negative in all carcinoid tumors of the digestion tract including colon, stomach small intestine and appendix. In lung and intestinal carcinoid tumors, a few sustentacular cells were positive for SOX10, but neoplastic cells appeared negative (Figure 6D).  
 Discussion  
  Previous studies have shown SOX10 to be a highly sensitive and specific nuclear marker for melanoma in both primary and metastatic lesions. 1 '  11-15  In our study, 106/110 (96.4%) of primary cutaneous melanomas stained with SOX10. This compares well with the study by Nonaka et ah, as SOX10 nuclear expression was found in 76 of 78 melanomas (97%). 7  In a study 

 by Shin J et ah, SOX10 was expressed in 100% of DM and was negative in all histologic mimics such as spindle cell carcinoma, atypical fibroxanthoma (AFX) and sarcomas. Karamchandani JR et ah, also showed comparable results as only 1/78 (1.3%) cases of various sarcomas expressed SOX10. 16  In our study, SOX10 was expressed in 50/51 (98%) of desmoplastic and spindle cell melanomas, and was expressed in 4/99 (4.0%) in various types of sarcomas (Table 2). Nonaka et ah, showed SOX 10 to be expressed in 38/77 (49%) of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST). 7  Our study was limited, including only 2 MPNST's which were both negative.  
  DM and SCM can present diagnostic challenges for the pathologist due to histologic mimics and limitation with immunohistochemical staining (Figure 4A-D). Although SI 00 usually stains DM, other melanoma markers such as HMB45 and Melan-A has been shown to be negative in most cases. 14  Other histologic mimics of DM include spindled fibroblasts or histiocytes within prior excision scars. Ramos-Herberth, FI et ah, demonstrated that SOX10 was less likely than SI 00 to be expressed by background fibroblasts and histiocytes within scars, and thus SOX10 was superior to S100 in these types of cases. 15   
  Despite the lack of specificity of SI 00, pathologists still use SI 00 in the diagnosis of neural crest-derived tumors; however SOX10 has been shown to be highly specific, and rarely expressed in non-schwannian and non-melanocytic tumors in the differential diagnosis of melanoma and peripheral nerve sheath tumors. A recommended approach would include both S100 and SOX10 in diagnosis of melanoma or peripheral nerve sheath tumors. 16  In our study, SOX10 was negative in the vast majority of non-melanocytic tumors (Table 3). These findings  
  1 7  
 show concordance with other studies. ' S0X10 has been demonstrated in a subset of breast carcinomas, including basal-like or triple-negative carcinomas, and in metaplastic carcinomas. 

 This finding thus supports the concept that these neoplasms may show myoepithelial differentiation. 18 In our study, SOXIO nuclear staining was expressed in normal breast myoepithelial cells, as well as a subset of breast lobular epithelial cells (Figure 2D), and was expressed in 16.5% of infiltrating breast cancers. SOXIO has been shown to stain various types of brain tumors. 5 '  6  Bannykh SI et ah, demonstrated the majority of oligodendrogliomas, and a large fraction of astrocytomas and glioblastomas that expressed SOXIO; 5  correlating with our results.  
  Our findings of SOXIO expression in malignant melanomas (96.6%) and in benign nevi and schwannomas (100%) demonstrated a high concordance with other studies using the well published SOX10 goat polyclonal antibody. 1 '  10"15 '  19  The use of an RUO goat primary antibody may be satisfactory for research purposes; however, it may not be generally accepted in a clinical setting. Polyclonal antibodies are also notorious for lot-to-lot variation and may produce unwanted non-specific background staining. In the study by Amr Mohamed et ah, non-specific background staining was observed in photomicrographs in both melanoma and in breast cancer. 1  In a study by Zhong, et ah, SOX10 was strongly positive in cytoplasm of benign prostate tissue, and was weakly positive in cytoplasm of prostate cancer tissues. 19  In our study, the new monoclonal SOX10 antibody produced clean nuclear staining with essentially no background staining.  
 Conclusion  
  In summary, we have shown that the newly developed mouse monoclonal SOX10 IHC antibody [BC34] is highly sensitive and specific for malignant melanoma, including desmoplastic and spindle cell variants and appears highly suitable for clinical use. 

 References  
 1. Amr Mohamed, MD, Raul S. Gonzalez, MD, et al. SOXIO Expression in Malignant Melanoma, Carcinoma, and Normal Tissues. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol 2012; Ahead of Epub  
  2. Pusch C, Hustert E, Pfeifer D, et al. The SOXlO/SoxlO gene from human and mouse: sequence, expression, and transactivation by the encoded HMG domain transcription factor. Hum Genet. 1998;103: 115-123.  
  3. Mollaaghababa R, Pavan WJ. The importance of having your SOX on: role of SOXIO in the development of neural crest-derived melanocytes and glia. Oncogene. 2003;22:3024-3034.  
  4. Bondurand N, Kobetz A, Pingault V, et al. Expression of the SOX10 gene during human development. FEBS Lett. 1998;432: 168-172.  
  5. Bannykh SI, Stolt CC, Kim J, Perry A, Wegner M. Oligodendroglial-specific transcriptional factor SOX10 is ubiquitously expressed in human gliomas. J Neurooncol. 2006 Jan;76(2): 115-127  
  6. Britsch S, Goerich DE, Riethmacher D, et al. The transcription factor SoxlO is a key regulator of peripheral glial development. Genes Dev. 2001 ; 15:66-78.  
  7. Nonaka D, Chiriboga L, Rubin BP. SoxlO: a pan-schwannian and melanocyte marker. Am J Surg Pathol. 2008;32: 1291-1298.  
  8. Feng Z, Wu X, Chen V, et al. Incidence and survival of desmoplastic melanoma in the United States, 1992-2007. J Cutan Pathol 2011 ;38:616-624.  
  9. Conley J, Lattes R, Orr W. Desmoplastic malignant melanoma. Cancer 1971 ;28:914-916.  
  10. Busam KJ. Desmoplastic melanoma. Clin Lab Med. 2011 Jun;31(2):321-330.  
  11. George E, McClain SE, Slingluff CL, et al. Subclassification of desmoplastic melanoma: pure and mixed variants have significantly different capacities for lymph node metastasis. J Cutan Pathol 2009;36:425^432.  
  12. Palla B, Su A, Binder S, Dry S. SOX10 expression distinguishes desmoplastic melanoma from its histologic mimics. Am J Dermatopathol. 2013 Jul;35(5):576-581.  
  13. Shin J, Vincent JG, Cuda JD, et al. SoxlO is expressed in primary melanocyte neoplasms of various histologies, but not in fibrohistiocytic proliferations and histiocytoses. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2012 Oct;67(4):717-726.  
  14. Palla B, Su A, Binder S, Dry S. SOX10 expression distinguishes desmoplastic melanoma from its histologic mimics. Am J Dermatopathol. 2013 Jul;35(5):576-581.  
  15. Ramos-Herberth FI, Karamchandani J, Kim J, et al. SOX10 immunostaining distinguishes desmoplastic 

 melanoma from excision scar. J Cutan Pathol. 2010;37:944-952.  
  16. Karamchandani JR, et al. SOX10 and S100 in the diagnosis of soft-tissue neoplasms.  
 Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2012 Oct;20(5):445-450.  
  17. Tsuta K, Raso MG, Kalhor N, et al. SoxlO-positive sustentacular cells in neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung. Histopathology. 2011 Jan;58(2):276-285.  
  18. Cimino-Mathews A, Subhawong AP, Elwood H, et al. Neural crest transcription factor SoxlO is preferentially expressed in triple-negative and metaplastic breast carcinomas. Hum Pathol. 2013 Jun;44(6):959-965.  
  19. Zhong WD, Qin GQ, Dai QS, et al. SOXs in human prostate cancer: implication as progression and prognosis factors. BMC Cancer. 2012 Jun 15;12:248. 

 
 Table 1: Normal Tissues (n=34)  
   
 Table 2: Melanocytic Legions (n=257)  
 
 
 
 Table 3: Various Neoplastic Tissues (n=665)  
 
 
 
  Abbreviations: CSN (central nerve system) 

 Table 4: SOX10 Expression in Soft Tissue Tumors (n=127)  
 
 
 
 Figures 1-6  
 Figure 1: SOXIO Western Blot fcDa  
  250 - 150 - 100 - 75 - 66k.Da 
 50 - 37 ~  
  25 - 20 - 15 - 10 · 

 
 Figure 2 A-F: SOXIO in Normal Tissues  
 
 
 
  A Normal skin, 10X B) Normal breast 10X  
     ' ' WP li pp g 
 C Normal salivary gland, 10X D Peripheral nerve, 10X  
 
 
 
  E) Cerebellum, 20X F) Cerebrum 

 Fi ure 3 A-D: SOX10 in Melanoma 
 
 
 
  A) Melanoma with melanin pigment stained, 10 B) Cutaneous melanoma, 2X 
 
 
 
  C) Metastatic melanoma in lymph node D) Metastatic melanoma in lymph node, 20X 

 
 Fi ure 4 A-D: SOXIO Expression in Spindle Cell/Desmoplastic/Sarcomatoid Melanomas 
 
 
  A) Spindle cell melanoma, 10X B) Desmoplastic melanoma, 20X
 
 
  C) In situ component of desmoplastic melanoma, 20X D) Sarcomatoid melanoma, 20X  
 Figure 5 A, B: SOXIO Expression in Schwannoma and Nevus 

 
 
 
 
  A) Schwannoma, 10X B) Benign nevus, 20X  
  Figure 6 A-D: SOXIO Expressed in Various Neo lasms  
 
 
 
  A Invasive ductal carcinoma (breast) 20X B) Myoepithelal cells surrounding DCIS (breast), 10X  
 
 
 
  C) Astrocytoma, 20X  D )  Intestinal carcinoid '  sustentacular cells '  10X 
 
 
 BUDAPEST RESTRICTED CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PATENT PROCEDURE 
 INTERNATIONAL FORM RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 7.3  
  AND VIABILITY STATEMENT ISSUED PURSUANT TO RULE 10.2  
  The American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®) has received your deposit of seeds/strain(s)/strain(s) in connection with the filing of an application for patent. The following information is provided to fulfill Patent Office requirements. 
 To: Weimin Qi  
  Biocare Medical, Inc.  
  4040 Pike Lane  
  Concord, CA 94520  
 Deposited on Behalf of: Biocare Medical. Inc.  
  Date of Receipt of seeds/strain(s) by the ATCC®: 02/11/2014  
  Depositor Reference: mouse hybridoma  
 Strain: Anti-human SOX10,clone BC34  
  Quantity: 25 Vials  
  ATCC Designation: PTA-120969  
 The ATCC® understands that:  
  1 The deposit of these seeds/strain(s) does not grant ATCC® a license, either express or implied, to infringe the patent, and our release of these seeds/strain(s) to others does not grant them a license, either express or implied, to infringe the patent.  
  2 If the deposit should die or be destroyed during the effective term of the patent, it shall be your responsibility to replace it with viable material. It is also your responsibility to supply a sufficient quantity for distribution for the deposit term. ATCC® will distribute and maintain the material for 30 years or 5 years following the most recent request for the deposit, whichever is longer. The United States and many other countries are signatory to the Budapest Treaty.  
  Prior to the issuance of a U.S. Patent, the ATCC® agrees in consideration for a one-time service charge, not to distribute these seeds/strain(s) or any information relating thereto or to their deposit except as instructed by the depositor or relevant patent office. After relevant patent issues we are responsible to release the seeds/strain(s) and they will be made available for distribution to the public without any restrictions. We will inform you of requests for the seeds/strain(s) for 30 years from date of deposit.  
 Doc ID: 20127  
  Revision: 2  
  Effective Date: 11/25/2009 

 
 
 
 The deposit was tested 02/24/2014  anc ]  on  ¾ na ¾ d a t e  the seeds/strain(s) were viable  
  International Depository Authority: American Type Culture Collection (ATCC®), Manassas, VA, USA  
  Signature of person having authority to represent ATCC®: 
 
 
  Rochelle Harrington cc: Nicole Ressue  
  Ref: Docket or Case No: Biocare-SOX10-Prov2  
 Doc ID: 20127  
  Revision: 2  
  Effective Date: 11/25/2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
