
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  COMPOSITIONS FROM A BACTERIAL ORGANISM AND USES THEREOF  
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS [0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 63/028,395, filed May 21, 2020, U.S. Provisional Application 63/047,821, filed July 2, 2020, and U.S. Provisional Application 63/126,172, filed December 16, 2020, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.  
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION  
 [0002] The technology relates in part to a strain of Bacillus cereus bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755 and compositions derived from the bacteria for a variety of uses, including cosmetic and commercial compositions. The technology relates in part to applying compositions derived from the bacteria to surfaces to provide protection from ultraviolet light.  
 BACKGROUND  
 [0003] Several physiologically and phylogenetically distinct microorganisms have been encountered while examining microbial contamination of surfaces. Some of these microorganisms form round, exosporium-bearing spores, whose exosporia might be responsible for adaptation to the extreme conditions of, and direct adhesion to, surfaces with exposure to ultraviolet light.  
 SUMMARY  
 [0004] Isolation, identification and understanding of highly ultraviolet (UV)-resistant microorganisms can be of significant use in industry and in medicine. In addition, exosporium components (e.g., proteins, lipids, etc. that are isolated and optionally purified) can be used to manufacture UV-resistant articles. In non-limiting examples, a composition comprising such a microorganism and/or component thereof can be utilized in sunscreens or to prolong the product life of articles (e.g., fabric articles (e.g., convertible tops, tents)). A composition comprising such a microorganism and/or component thereof can be applied to an article (e.g., as an UV- retardant spray) or can be incorporated into an article (e.g., as a component in exterior paints).  
 1 

[0005] Provided in certain aspects are highly UV-resistant bacterial isolates useful for manufacturing new and improved UV-resistant compositions. Provided in certain aspects is an isolated, and optionally a biologically purified, culture of a novel spore forming Bacillus species, referred to herein as "an isolate." In particular aspects, provided is a Bacillus cereus isolate with high UV-resistant properties, having ATCC accession number PTA-126755.  
 [0006] Additionally, because of its UV-resistant properties, a component of a B. cereus strain (e.g., a protein, lipid, etc. that is isolated and optionally purified), optionally treated to increase UV resistance, can be used to manufacture a UV-resistant product. In non-limiting examples, a component from such a strain could be incorporated in a topical composition such as a sunscreen (e.g., applied to skin of a human or animal), applied to a substrate to prolong the structural integrity of the substrate exposed to UV light (e.g., applied to a fabric surface (e.g., convertible top, tent) or painted surface; e.g., applied as a UV-retardant coating (e.g., spray)), or integrated into a composition or substrate to prolong the structural integrity of the substrate or reduce UV transmission (e.g., incorporation in a paint, plastic or glass).  
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS [0007] FIG. 1 provides UV absorption spectra from various strains of bacteria that were subjected to directed evolution by exposure to UV light. In the figure, the line indicated as “A” corresponds to the UV spectrum for Strain A, when grown for three days and then sonicated. The line indicated as “B” corresponds to sunscreen. The Y axis is Absorbance Units (AU) (Absorbance/mg of material), ranging from 0-80, and the X axis is wavelength in nanometers, ranging from 254 nm to 399 nm.  
 [0008] FIG. 2 provides UV spectra from various strains following various post-growth conditions described in Example 3. The line indicated as “A-D” corresponds to Strain A under post-growth conditions D, yielding satisfactory UV absorption. The Y axis is Absorbance Units (AU) (Absorbance/mg of material), ranging from 0-20, and the X axis is wavelength in nanometers, ranging from 254 nm to 399 nm.  
 [0009] FIG. 3 provides UV spectra from lyophilized and lysed material from Bacillus cereus (ATCC accession number PTA-126755) as described in detail in Example 2A. The dotted trace in Figure 3 represents the spectra for a sample microfluidized with a laboratory microfluidizer, the dashed trace represents the spectra for a sample microfluidized with a pilot scale microfluidizer,  
 2 

and solid trace represents the spectra for a sample without microfluidization. The Y axis is Absorbance Units (AU) from 0 to 0.06, and the X axis is wavelength in nanometers, ranging from 254 nm to 399 nm.  
 [0010] FIG. 4 provides UV spectra from lyophilized and lysed material from Bacillus cereus (ATCC accession number PTA-126755) as described in detail in Example 2B. Trace A in Figure 4 represents the spectra at 0.50 mgZmL, Trace B represents the spectra at 0.25 mg/mL, and Trace C represents the spectra at 0.10 mg/mL, in each case in 8M urea. The Y axis is Absorbance Units (AU), normalized for 0 to 0.9, and the X axis is wavelength in nanometers, ranging from 200 nm to 400 nm.  
 [0011] FIG. 5 provides UV spectra from lyophilized and lysed material from Bacillus cereus (ATCC accession number PTA-126755) as described in detail in Example 2C. The solid trace in Figure 5 represents the spectra for the test material, and the dashed trace represents the spectra for oxybenzone. The Y axis is Absorbance Units (AU), and the X axis is wavelength in nanometers, ranging from 254 nm to 399 nm.  
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION  
 Definitions  
 [0012] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the meaning commonly understood by a person skilled in the art of the present disclosure. As used herein, the following terms have the meanings ascribed to them below, unless specified otherwise.  
 99 «  
 [0013] In this disclosure, “comprises,” “comprising, containing” and “having” and the like can have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. patent law and can mean “ includes,” “including,” and the like; “consisting essentially of  5  or “consists essentially” likewise has the meaning ascribed in U.S. patent law and the term is open-ended, allowing for the presence of more than that which is recited so long as basic or novel characteristics of that which is recited is not changed by the presence of more than that which is recited, but excludes prior art embodiments.  
 [0014] Ranges provided herein are understood to be shorthand for all of the values within the range. For example, a range of 1 to 50 is understood to include any number, combination of numbers, or sub-range from the group consisting 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, or 50.  
 3 

[0015] The phrase “a” or “an” entity as used herein refers to one or more of that entity; for example, a compound refers to one or more compounds or at least one compound. As such, the terms “a” (or “an”), “one or more”, and “at least one” can be used interchangeably herein.  
 [0016] Unless specifically stated or obvious from context, as used herein, the term “about” is understood as within a range of normal tolerance in the art, for example within 2 standard deviations of the mean. The term "about" can be understood as within 10%, 9%, 8%, 7%, 6%, 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 1%, 0.5%, 0.1%, 0.05%, or 0.01% of the stated value. Unless otherwise clear from context, all numerical values provided herein are modified by the term about.  
 [0017] The terms “optional” or “optionally” as used herein means that a subsequently described event or circumstance may but need not occur, and that the description includes instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example, a component that is “optionally purified” means that the component may be purified or that the component may not be purified.  
 [0018] The term “purified,” as described herein, refers to the purity of a given compound. For example, a compound is “purified” when the given compound is a major component of the composition, i.e., at least about 50% w/w pure. Thus, “purified” embraces at least about 50% w/w purity, at least about 60% w/w purity, at least about 70% purity, at least about 80% purity, at least about 85% purity, at least about 90% purity, at least about 92% purity, at least about 94% purity, at least about 96% purity, at least about 97% purity, at least about 98% purity, at least about 99% purity, at least about 99.5% purity, and at least about 99.9% purity, wherein “substantially pure” embraces at least about 97% purity, at least about 98% purity, at least about 99% purity, at least about 99.5% purity, and at least about 99.9% purity.  
 [0019] The term "isolated," as described herein, refers to a component or organism that has been separated from its original environment. An organism can be separated from a natural geographic environment and optionally can exist in an environment different than the original natural geographic environment (e.g., in a container such as a laboratory container (e.g., cell culture container) or storage container), for example. A component of an organism can be separated from the organism in purified form or non-purified form and exist in an ex vivo environment (e.g., in a form in which cells have been disrupted and/or in a container), for example.  
 4 

Biological Deposit  
 [0020] The bacterial strain disclosed in this description has been deposited under conditions that assure that access to the cultures will be available during the pendency of this application. The bacterial strain disclosed in this description has been deposited in the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), 10801 University Blvd., Manassas, Va. 20110, USA, as PTA-126755. The bacterial strain deposited initially was designated as Bacillus pumilus and then subsequently designated as Bacillus cereus. The deposit was received by the ATCC on May 7, 2020, and was given an accession number by the International Depository Authority of PTA-126755. The deposit has been made to and received by the International Depository Authority under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty, and all restrictions upon public access to the deposit will be irrevocably removed upon the grant of a patent on this application. The deposits will be available as required by foreign patent laws in countries wherein counterparts of the subject application, or its progeny, are filed. However, it should be understood that the availability of the deposits does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention.  
 [0021] Further, the subject culture deposits will be stored and made available to the public in accord with the provisions of the Budapest Treaty for the Deposit of Microorganisms, i.e., they will be stored with all the care necessary to keep them viable and uncontaminated for a period of at least five years after the most recent request for the furnishing of a sample of a deposit, and in any case, for a period of at least thirty (30) years after the date of deposit or for the enforceable life of any patent which may issue disclosing the cultures. The depositor acknowledges the duty to replace the deposit(s) should the depository be unable to furnish a sample when requested due to the condition of the deposits).  
 Compounds and Compositions  
 [0022] An element of spore resistance for bacterial spores is a multilayered protein shell that encases the spore referred to as the "spore coat." The coat of the best-studied spore-forming microbe, B. subtilis, is comprised of at least 45 proteins, most of which are poorly characterized. Several protective roles for the coat are well characterized, including resistance to large toxic molecules, ortho-phthalaldehyde, and UV radiation. Without being bound by theory, it is believed that the physical makeup of the deposited bacterial strain rather than biochemical reactions (an enzymatic response to repair damage or otherwise neutralize UV radiation) is responsible for its  
 5 

separated from, or concentrated with respect to, other cellular remains and/or any remaining intact bacteria) in certain instances. Cellular remains or a subset thereof may be combined with one or more agents (e.g., one or more carriers (e.g., diluent, solvent, dispersion media, antibacterial agent, antifungal agent, excipient, or vehicle)), and may be incorporated into a composition or article. [0024] In various embodiments, the compositions comprising the bacteria or the cellular remains of the bacteria are topical compositions for application to the human body and skin, such as sunscreen or sunblock. In various embodiments, the bacteria or its cellular remains are incorporated to provide additional SPF protection. In various embodiments, the bacteria or its cellular remains replace one or more chemical agents with anti-UV properties. In various embodiments, the sunscreen or sunblock composition is formulated to be essentially free of one or more of the following components: oxybenzone, octinoxate, octisalate, octocrylene, homosalate, and avobenzone.  
 [0025] In various embodiments, the compositions according to the present disclosure are paint. By paint is meant any pigmented or non-pigmented liquid, liquefiable solid, or solid mastic that, after application to a substrate in a thin layer, converts to a solid film. The paint may be oil-based or water-based. In various embodiments, the paint is for exterior use on a house or other dwelling or residential or commercial building. The bacteria or its cellular remains can be incorporated into paint to provide additional UV protection. In various embodiments, the bacteria or its cellular remains replace one or more chemical agents with anti-UV properties.  
 6 

 
 [0026] More generally, in various embodiments, the compositions according to the present disclosure can include layered compositions comprising (i) a substrate upon which the strain of bacteria or its cellular remains are deposited, and (ii) a surface layer of bacteria or cellular remains, optionally incorporated in a film.  
 [0027] In various embodiments, the compositions according to the present disclosure are solid materials, including but not limited to fabric, textile, plastic and glass. Such materials can have the bacteria or its cellular remains coated, integrated, embedded, impregnated, or otherwise incorporated. Such application can reduce or prevent UV transmission through the materials, increase durability and reduce wear-and-tear on the materials from UV sources, and otherwise provide UV protection. Exemplary applications include but are not limited to windows, eyeglasses, tarps, tents, and umbrellas.  
 Methods of Manufacture  
 [0028] In various embodiments, provided are methods of manufacturing a composition by obtaining bacteria of the same strain of Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PT A- 126755, optionally rendering the bacteria non-viable (e.g., by disruption of the bacteria, e.g., through lyophilization, lysis, sonication, microfluidization, or the like), and adding the bacteria and/or its non-viable components to a carrier to yield the composition. The carrier may include any components that are commonly used in the formulation of final compositions, depending on the intended use of the composition. Processing of the bacteria from growth media may include processing steps such as lyophilization, lysis, or the like. In various embodiments, microfluidization is included to improve UV absoibance, homogeneity, and/or reproducibility. [0029] In various embodiments, provided herein are methods of directed evolution to produce bacteria with resistance to ultraviolet light, comprising obtaining a sample of Bacillus cereus (e.g., deposited under ATCC accession number PT A- 126755), growing the sample in ultraviolet light at greater than or equal to 900 j oules/m 2  of exposure (fluence), and isolating viable bacteria surviving such growth conditions, wherein the isolated viable bacteria exhibit greater UV absorption compared to untreated Bacillus cereus , and optionally repeating the process of growing and isolating bacteria until a desired level of UV resistance is obtained. Such evolved bacteria may have one or more phenotypic differences from the source organism, or one or more genotypic differences from the source organism, or both.  
 7 

Methods of Use  
 [0030] A composition described herein can be incorporated into an article or can be applied to an article, for example, where the article sometimes is a substrate. In various embodiments, provided herein are methods of providing protection from ultraviolet light comprising administering (e.g., applying) a composition as described herein to the surface of a substrate. In various embodiments, provided herein are methods of altering effects and/or transmission of ultraviolet light, comprising embedding or integrating a composition as described herein into a substrate. The substrate may be in non-limiting examples (i) a biological substrate, such as human skin, (ii) a non-living substrate, such as a rigid article (e.g., a wall on a building or window where the composition is applied as a paint), or a flexible article (e.g., a textile, fabric, garment, shade). The composition sometimes is applied as a coating layer on the surface of the article and/or integrated into the article.  
 Incorporation by Reference  
 [0031] All US patents and US and PCI published patent applications and non-patent literature mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each independent patent and publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.  
 Implementations of the Technology  
 [0032] Non-limiting examples of implementations of the technology are provided hereafter. 
 Al. An isolated, and optionally biologically pure, culture of a strain of bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755.  
 A2. A bacterium of the strain of bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755. 
 A3. A bacterium derived from the strain of bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755 by a process comprising:  
 (a) exposing bacteria of the strain deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755 to ultraviolet light at an exposure greater than or equal to about 900 JoulesZm2 (fluence); and;  
 (b) isolating viable bacteria surviving growth under conditions in (a);  
 8 

wherein the isolated viable bacteria exhibit greater ultraviolet radiation absorption compared to the bacteria of (a) prior to exposure to ultraviolet light.  
 A4. The bacterium of embodiment A3, wherein the greater ultraviolet radiation absorption is identified by comparison of ultraviolet radiation absorption of lyophilized bacteria of (a) prior to exposure to ultraviolet light that have been resuspended in water at a concentration of 0.25% w:v and lyophilized isolated viable bacteria of (c) resuspended in water at a concentration of 0.25% w:v.  
 A5. A population of bacteria comprising one or more than one bacterium of any one of embodiments A2-A4.  
 A6. The population of bacteria of embodiment A5, wherein substantially all bacteria in the population are a bacterium of any one of embodiments A2-A4.  
 A7. The population of embodiment A6 wherein the population is isolated and optionally biologically pure.  
 A8. A composition comprising a bacterium of the strain of bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755, a bacterium of any one of embodiments A2-A4 and/or a population of bacteria of any one of embodiments A5-A7.  
 A9. A composition comprising cellular remains from bacteria of the strain of bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755 or from a population of bacteria of any one of embodiments A5-A7, wherein the cellular remains are non-viable.  
 A10. The composition of embodiment A9 wherein the cellular remains are lysed, secreted, lyophilized from, or otherwise derived from the bacteria.  
 All. The composition of any one of embodiments A8-A10, wherein the composition is a sunscreen.  
 A12. The composition of any one of embodiments A8-A10, wherein the composition is paint. 
 A13. The composition of any one of embodiments A8-A10, wherein the composition is a layered composition comprising (i) a substrate upon which the strain of bacteria or its cellular remains are deposited on a surface of the substrate, and (ii) a surface layer of bacteria or cellular remains.  
 9 

A14. The bacterium, bacteria, composition or population of bacteria of any one of embodiments A1-A13, wherein the bacterium or bacteria are a Bacillus cereus bacterium or Bacillus cereus bacteria.  
 A15. A method of providing protection from ultraviolet light, comprising administering a composition according to any one of embodiments A8-A11 to the skin of a subject.  
 A16. A method of providing protection from ultraviolet light, comprising administering a composition according to any one of embodiments A8-A10 and A12 to a surface on a substrate or comprising integrating or embedding a composition according to any one of embodiments A8- A10 into a material.  
 A17. A method of making a composition according to any one of embodiments A8-A12, comprising: obtaining a bacterium of any one of embodiments A2-A4, optionally rendering the bacterium non-viable, and adding the bacterium to a carrier to yield the composition.  
 18. A method of making a composition according to any one of embodiments A8-A12, comprising: disrupting a bacterium of any one of embodiments A2-A4 to yield bacterial remains, optionally isolating and/or optionally purifying the bacterial remains or subset thereof, and adding the bacterial remains or subset thereof to a carrier to yield the composition.  
 19. The method of embodiment A17 or A18, wherein the bacterium is a Bacillus cereus bacterium or the bacteria are Bacillus cereus bacteria.  
 Bl. A bacterium of a strain of Bacillus cereus bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755.  
 B2. An isolated biologically pure culture of bacteria from a strain of Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755.  
 B3. A composition comprising bacteria from a strain of Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755.  
 B4. A composition comprising cellular remains from bacteria from a strain of Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755, wherein the cellular remains are non- viable.  
 10 

B5. The composition of embodiment B4, wherein the cellular remains are lysed, secreted, lyophilized from, or otherwise derived from the strain of Bacillus cereus.  
 B6. The composition of any one of embodiments B3-B5, wherein the composition is a sunscreen. 
 B7. The composition of any one of embodiments B3-B5, wherein the composition is paint.  
 B8. The composition of any one of embodiments B3-B5, wherein the composition is a layered composition comprising (i) a substrate upon which the strain of bacteria or its cellular remains are deposited on a surface of the substrate, and (ii) a surface layer of bacteria or cellular remains. 
 B9. A composition, wherein the composition is a solid material into which a composition according to any one of embodiments B3-B5 has been integrated or embedded.  
 BIO. A method providing protection from ultraviolet light to a surface of a substrate comprising administering a composition according to any one of embodiments B3-B5 to a surface on a substrate.  
 B11. A method providing protection from ultraviolet light to a material comprising integrating or embedding a composition according to any one of embodiments B3-B5 into the material.  
 B12. A method of making a composition according to embodiment B3 comprising obtaining bacteria of a strain of Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755, optionally rendering the bacteria non-viable, and adding the bacteria to a carrier to yield the composition.  
 B13. A method of making a composition according to any one of embodiments B4-B5 comprising obtaining bacteria of a strain of Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PTA- 126755, converting the bacteria to cellular remains, and adding the cellular remains to a carrier to yield the composition.  
 B14. A method of directed evolution to produce bacteria with resistance to ultraviolet light, comprising (i) obtaining a sample of Bacillus cereus, (ii) growing the sample in ultraviolet light at greater than or equal to 900 joules/m2 of exposure (fluence), (iii) isolating viable bacteria surviving such growth conditions as the output of step (iii), and (iv) optionally repeating steps (ii) and (iii) with the output of step (iii), wherein the output of step (iii) exhibits greater UV absorption compared to untreated Badllus cereus.  
 11 

B15. The method of embodiment B14, further comprising step (v) measuring UV absorption of a composition comprising a lyophilized powder from the isolated viable bacteria resuspended in diH20 at 0.25% w:v.  
 EXAMPLES  
 Example 1: Generation of Bacterial Strains  
 [0033] Iteration 1 : Strains of B. cereus were spread on Tryptic Soy Agar petri plates and immediately placed under the Biosafety Cabinet UVC lamp (254nm) for varying amounts of time, up to an estimated 900J/m 2  of fluence. Colonies that resulted from surviving cells were used to inoculate test tubes of 5mL Tryptic Soy Broth (TSB), which were grown overnight at 37°C with shaking and lmL of the dense culture was added to lmL of 50% glycerol/50% water (v:v) at - 80°C.  
 [0034] Iterations 2-40: Frozen stocks were used to inoculate TSB overnights, which were then diluted 1 : 1000 in 10-fold diluted TSB (10%TSB). The dilute media was used because full strength media has very high UVC absorbance due to the abundance of aromatic amino acids such as tryptophan. 2.5mL of inoculated 10% TSB was then distributed into 24-well plates in patterns that control for slight differences in UVC incidence. Pre-sterilized plates containing tiny bleach- sterilized magnetic stir bars were covered with various amounts of UVC-translucent shielding (for example, 12 layers of clear plastic bags in which disposable petri dishes are “sleeved”). Colony- forming units were determined in the morning (time Ohr), the end of the day (usually time 6hr) and the next morning (usually time 23hr) via tittering (serial dilution and plating). For at least Iterations 2-8, at the end of the day, the surviving B. cereus had grown visible on the TSA plates, so a heat- sterilized inoculating loop w r as taken, a swath was collected from the resulting genetically-diverse lawn, and inoculated in 100%TSB overnight. Plating, then growing in rich media, allowed for two physiological “resets”, so that the cells that survived the succeeding round of UVC radiation did so most likely due to a genetic rather than physiological adaptation. This preparation was used the following morning to inoculate a new sterile 24-well plate, half of which had the same amount of shielding (e.g., 12 layers of petri plate bag plastic) or a reduced amount (e.g., 11 layers of petri plate plastic). Wherever possible, the wells most directly under the light that showed growth were used to inoculate the next iteration.  
 12 

[0035] After less than one layer of petri plate bag shielding was required, cling wrap was used. To prevent cross-contamination, ethanol-sterilized cling wrap continued to be used. UVC was increased by placing the magnetic stirrer on supports (some combination of empty pipet tip boxes and a Styrofoam box). Whenever the amount of UVC was checked, the luminometer was covered with the equivalent amount of shielding and placed at the equivalent distance from the Biosafety Cabinet UVC bulb.  
 [0036] Between Iterations 8 and 30, B. cereus grew rapidly so that next-morning titers showed visible lawns within a few hours of tittering. These preparations were then used to inoculate 5mL 100%TSB test tubes, which were grown at 37°C with shaking for an additional couple of hours. This approach allowed for the two “physiological resets” before another selection, but also allowed for a selection every night. Thus, initial inocula were titered at time Ohr at the end of the day, and time ~18hr the next morning.  
 [0037] After Iteration 30, assaying Colony-Forming Units was not performed; cells formed obvious clumps, especially (but not exclusively) when grown under UVC. Colony-Forming Units assumes that each colony is formed from a single bacterial cell, but this was not the case. With each successive iteration, titers of dense B. cereus evolved strains showed lower and lower cfu/mL; indicating the possibility that each colony formed from 10 or one hundred bacterial cells instead of one.  
 Example 2: UV Absorbance Testing  
 [0038] Nine different strains of TEST BACTERIA were grown in 10% tryptic soy broth (TSB) in test tubes for 1, 2, and 3 days to determine which strain outperforms the rest for UV absorption. Samples were taken from each day for each strain and either left as-is, heat-killed by boiling at 100 °C for 10 minutes, sonicated for 5 minutes total in 30-second on/off cycles at an amplitude of 1, or heat-killed and sonicated before flash-freezing and lyophilizing. This whole experiment was repeated twice more for a total of three runs.  
 Measuring the Absorbance ofLyophilized Cells  
 [0039] A solution of lyophilized cells was made at 0.25% weight-to-volume (w:v) by adding 1 mg of cells per 400 pL deionized water (ditfrO). diEbO (100 μΐ) was added to wells 2-12 of a UV- transparent 96-well plate. The 0.25% resuspension (200 pL) was added to well 1 of the UV- transparent 96-well plate. Serial 1:2 dilutions were made by transferring 100 pL from well 1 to  
 13 

well 2, pipetting up and down several times to mix, then transferring 100 μΕ from well 2 to well 3. This was repeated to well 11. The final 100 μΕ that would otherwise be transferred to well 12 was discarded, leaving only diHiO in well 12. The samples were serially diluted to ensure that their absorptions would fit within the parameters of the plate reader and none would be above or below the limits of detection.  
 [0040] The absorption spectrum of each well was measured using a Molecular Devices SpectraMax Plus plate reader. The absorption of each sample was measured from 254 nm to 399 nm in 5 nm increments. The raw spectra data of each sample was imported into an Excel spreadsheet, where the absoibances of the wells containing only diFfaO (the blanks) were subtracted as background from the absorbances of the wells containing dilutions of TEST BACTERIA. The absorbances of the wells were then divided by their concentrations (i.e. a sample at 0.25% was divided by 0.25) and the averages and standard deviations were calculated for all wells pertaining to a sample. The average absorption at each measured wavelength was plotted for each sample to determine the efficacy of TEST BACTERIA and determine which growth conditions and post-growth treatments yielded the most potent product. These absorbances were compared to the absoibances of sunscreen that had also been resuspended in dilLO at a final concentration of 0.25% w:v. The sunscreen selected contained a chemical agent active ingredient rather than a bacterial or bacterially-derived active ingredient.  
 [0041] The absorption spectra are illustrated in Figure 1 and showed that TEST BACTERIA Strain A (line A in Figure 1), grown for 3 days and then sonicated outperformed all other samples including sunscreen (line B in Figure. 1).  
 Example 2A: Alternative Lysis Procedure  
 [0042] Samples were prepared by microfluidization of bacterial cells according to the following procedure: A 20g pellet (-5.5E+10 cells) was diluted in deionized water (diffcO) to a total volume of 250 mL, creating a cell suspension of approximately 2.2E+08 cells/mL. 100 mL of this dilution was used with a laboratory-scale microfluidizer, and 150 mL was used with a pilot scale microfluidizer. Samples were obtained after 10 rounds of microfluidization from each microfluidizer, and samples were examined for homogeneity by visual inspection under magnification. UV spectra showed improved UV absorbance in the 254-300 nm range for microfluidized samples, as shown in Figure 3.  
 14 

Example 2B: UV Absorption testing  
 [0043] Materials: Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755, lyophilized into a solid; Coming UV transparent flat bottom acrylic 96-well plate; and 8M urea. Spectra obtained with SpectraMax Plus 384 with SoftMax Pro software v5.4.6.  
 Measuring the Absorbance of Lyophitized Cells  
 [0044] Lyophilized material were prepared as described in Example 2. Solutions of the lyophilized material were made at 0.5, 0.25, and 0.1 mg/mL concentrations in 8M urea by weighing out 10 mg of lyophilized material, resuspending in 1 mL 8M urea, and vortexing to obtain a 10 mg/mL solution, and making additional serial dilutions of 100 microliters of the 10 mg/mL solution. Aliquots of the solutions were pipetted into separate wells of the 96-well plate, as well as 8M urea blank solution, and spectra were obtained at 5 nm increments. Trace A in Figure 4 represents the spectra at 0.50 mg/mL, Trace B represents the spectra at 0.25 mg/mL, and Trace C represents the spectra at 0.10 mg/mL, in each case in 8M urea.  
 Example 2C: UV Absorption versus Oxybenzone  
 [0045] An aliquot of Bacillus cereus deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126755, was prepared, and UV spectra were obtained, according to Example 2 (line A in Figure 1) A comparative solution of oxybenzone was prepared by suspending powdered oxybenzone in 100% ethanol to obtain a 1 mg/mL (0.1% w/v solution). UV spectra for the oxybenzone sample were obtained according to the procedure in Example 2, and the data are displayed in Figure 5 for comparison.  
 Example 3: Scale Up  
 Preliminary Testing to Scale Up Production  
 [0046] Strain A, as described in Example 2, was selected for scale-up and production. Flask type, media volume, and incubation time at 37 °C were compared for the optimal growth. Two varieties of flasks were compared: 2,800mL Pyrex Fembach Culture Flasks and 2,500 mL Pyrex low form culture flasks.  
 15 

[0047] The 2,800 mL Fembach flasks contained 250 mL, 500 mL or 1,000 mL of 10% TSB. The 2,500 mL Low Form flasks contained 500 mL, 1,000 mL or 1,500 mL of 10% TSB. Five 50 mL samples were taken from each flask after 1, 2 and 3 days of growth with shaking at 37°C.  
 [0048] To determine which post-growth treatment optimizes the efficacy of TEST BACTERIA, five post-growth treatment types were tested: (A) centrifugation at 5,000 x g for 10 minutes, (B) centrifugation, washing with sterile diHzO, then centrifuging again, (C) centrifugation, washing, centrifugation, then resuspension of the pellet in ~10 mL diHzO followed by sonication for 5 minutes in 30-second on/off cycles at an amplitude of 1, (D) centrifugation, washing, centrifugation, sonication, then autoclaving and (E) centrifugation, then resuspension of the pellet in ~10 mL dilfcO followed by autoclaving. All samples were flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen after receiving their respective post-growth treatments and stored at -80°C until they could be lyophilized and their absorbances could be measured. Based on the absorption spectra results for the scale-up experiment, TEST BACTERIA grown in 1,500 mL of 10% TSB in Low Form Culture Flasks for two days and following treatment style (D) yielded the sufficient results for UV absorption, measured by the same method described in Example 2 (see Figure 2, black line noted as “A-D”).  
 QA/QC for Optimized Production  
 [0049] Several batches of TEST BACTERIA were grown and treated following the guidelines determined in the optimization experiments above. The cells were grown in 1,500 mL of 10% TSB in 2,500 mL Pyrex Low Form Culture Flasks for two days. The batches were centrifuged, washed, centrifuged, sonicated and then autoclaved before flash-freezing and storing at -80°C until they could be lyophilized. A sample of the lyophilized powder was resuspended in diHzO at 0.25% w:v to compare to the performance of sunscreen. Batches that performed better than the sunscreen were kept, while the rest were discarded.  
 [0050] Additional batches were grown in 1,500 mL of 10% TSB in 2,500 mL Pyrex Low Form Culture Flasks for one day. The batches were autoclaved, centrifuged once, lyophilized, resuspended at 15% weight-to-volume (w:v) in deionized water (dilfcO), sonicated, and lyophilized once more. Bacterial pellets were not flash-frozen prior to lyophilization, but were stored at -80°C. After sonication and before the second round of lyophilization, a small sample of each batch was further diluted to 0.25% w:v in ditbO for QA/QC.  
 16 

[0051] Where visual inspection of batches or variation of results within a batch was found, the batch was physically ground with a grinder until physical homogeneity for the batch was achieved.  
 Example 4: Formulation  
 [0052] Suspending Cells in Foundation or Lotion for SPF Testing  
 [0053] Powdered bacteria that passed the QA/QC cutoff for performance were resuspended in foundation or lotion at concentrations of 15% or 25% w:v and either sonicated or not sonicated. Commercially available lotion included AVEENO® Baby Daily Moisture Lotion. Commercially available foundation included FLOWER Beauty® Light Illusion with Broad Spectrum SPF 18. Samples were tested for SPF determination. The sample that had the best SPF was a sonicated 15% resuspension in foundation.  
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
