
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  THERMOSTABLE L-ARABINOSE ISOMERASE AND PROCESS FOR PREPARING D-TAGATOSE THEREBY 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
 Field of the Invention 
 The present invention relates to a thermostable arabinose isomerase and a process for preparing tagatose using the same, more specifically, to a noble gene coding for L-arabinose isomease derived from Thermotoga neapolitana 5068, a thermostable arabinose isomerase expressed from the said gene, a recombinant expression vector containing the said gene, a microorganism transformed with the said expression vector, a process for preparing thermostable arabinose isomerase from the said transformant and a process for preparing D-tagatose employing the said enzyme. 
 Background of the Invention 
 In recent years, growing concerns about health have led much research effort to the development of healthful foods. As one of the above efforts, sugar alcohols  ' have been proposed as sweeteners which can substitute sugar, known to cause adult diseases, and are practically being used. Since the said sweeteners are known to have adverse side effects such as causing diarrhea when ingested more than certain amount, there is an urgent need to develop substitutional sweeteners without harmful effects. 
 Among substitutional sweeteners which have little side effect, tagatose, a keto-sugar of galactose, has similar sweetness to D-fructose, and has known not to be absorbed or metabolized in the body, making tagatose a safe low-caloric substitutional sweetener for sugar. Also, it has been reported that tagatose can be employed as an 

intermediate for the preparation of useful optically active isomers, detergents and cosmetics, also, as an additive or raw material for the synthesis of drugs, especially, its ability to lower blood sugar level renders tagatose a therapeutic and preventive- agent for diabetes, and a low caloric diet agent. 
 Currently, tagatose is mostly prepared via chemical synthesis from galactose (see: USP 5,002,612), which comprises the steps of isomerization of galactose catalyzed by metal hydroxide in the presence of inorganic salts to form an intermediate of metal hydroxide-tagatose complex, and neutralization of the complex by adding acid to yield final product, tagatose. 
 Alternative method for manufacturing tagatose is an enzymatic method in which galactose is converted into tagatose via conversion of aldose or aldose derivatives into ketose or ketose derivatives. Especially, it has been reported that arabinose isomerase which catalyzes the conversion reaction of L-arabinose into L-ribulose can be employed for production of tagatose in vitro using galactose as a substrate. However, the yield of tagatose produced by arabinose isomerase from galactose is as low as 20%, hindering industrial application of conversion process of galactose into tagarose. Although the method for manufacturing tagatose from milk or cheese has been developed (see: USP 6,057,135), again, low yield is the •limitation for its industrial use. 
 Under the circumstances, there are strong reasons for exploring and developing a novel enzyme which can produce tagatose with high yield. 
 Summary of the Invention 
 The present inventors have made an effort to develop an enzyme which can produce tagatose with high yield, thus, have found that tagatose can be produced with high yield from galactose by employing a recombinant arabinose 

isomerase produced from E. coli transformed with recombinant vector containing arabinose isomerase gene derived from Thermotoga neapolitana 5068. 
 The first object of the present invention is, therefore, to provide arabinose isomerase gene derived from Thermotoga neapoli tana 5068. 
 The second object of the invention is to provide arabinose isomerase expressed from the gene. The third object of the invention is to provide a recombinant expression vector containing the arabinose isomerase gene. 
 The fourth object of the invention is to provide a recombinant E. coli transformed with the recombinant expression vector. 
 The fifth object of the invention is to provide a process for preparing recombinant arabinose isomerase using the transformed E. coli . 
 The sixth object of the invention is to provide a process for preparing tagatose from galactose using the enzyme. 
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
 The above and the other objects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following descriptions given in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which: 
 Figure 1 is a schematic diagram showing the construction strategy of an expression vector containing arabinose isomerase gene of the invention. 
 Figure 2 is a graph showing activity profile of arabinos.e isomerase of the invention depending on temperature. 
 Figure 3 is a graph showing thermostability of arabinose isomerase of the invention. 

 Figure 4 is a graph showing the time course of conversion rate of galactose into tagatose by arabinose isomerase of the invention at various reaction temperatures. Figure 5 is a graph showing the time course of changes in thermostability of immobilized arabinose isomerase of the invention. 
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
 To prepare thermophilic or thermostable arabinose isomerase for industrial use, the present inventors have cloned a gene coding for arabinose isomerase from genomic DNA of Thermotoga neapolitana 5068 (DSM 5608) and analyzed nucleotide sequence and deduced amino acid sequence from the said gene. The nucleotide sequence and deduced amino acid sequence of the gene encoding arabinose isomerase of the invention (SEQ ID NO: 3) has shown to have 83.2% and 94.8% homology, respectively, to those of the putative arabinose isomerase gene of Thermotoga maritima of which entire nucleotide sequence has been verified via genome project. 
 For high level expression of the said cloned arabinose isomerase in E. coli, the gene coding for the enzyme was inserted into an expression vector pET22b(+) (Novagen, U.S.A.) . to construct a recombinant expression vector pTNAI, which was then introduced into E. coli BL21. The transformed recombinant E. coli was named "E. coli BL21/DE3 (pTNAI) " and deposited with an international depository authority, the Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM, #361-221 Hongje-1-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea) on December 4, 2000 as accession no. KCCM-10231. 
 The said E. coli BL21/DE3 (pTNAI) was grown to obtain recombinant arabinose isomerase, which was characterized to have optimum pH of 7.0, optimum reaction temperature of 85 °C. Furthermore, over 80% of remaining activity was 

measured after 2 hour heat treatment at 80 °C, indicating that the enzyme is exceedingly heat stable. 
 Tagatose can be produced by employing arabinose isomerase of the invention prepared from E. coli transformed with a recombinant expression vector containing the gene for arabinose isomerase derived from Thermotoga sp., and galactose as a substrate, under a condition of pH 5 to 8, more preferably pH 6 to 8, most preferably pH 7, and 60 to 100°C, more preferably 70 to 95°C, most preferably 85°C. 
 Aqueous solution of galactose was subjected to isomerization reaction employing recombinant arabinose isomerase of the invention, and it has been found that conversion rate into tagatose was over 68% at 80°C. When the said recombinant arabinose isomerase is employed for industrial production of tagatose, soluble form of the enzyme may be employed, nevertheless, it is more preferable to immobilize the enzyme on the beads used in industry. For example, in case of the recombinant arabinose isomerase of the invention immobilized on silica beads, the remaining activity was measured to be over 80% of original activity after 20 day-heat treatment at 90 °C, thus, it can be applied for thermal process over 80°C in industry. 
 The present invention is further illustrated in the following examples, which should not be taken to limit the scope of the invention. 
 Example_l: Cloning of arabinose isomerase gene 
 Thermotoga neapoli tana 5068 (DSM 5068) was grown under an anaerobic condition and cells were harvested by centrifugation at 8000xg for 10 minutes. Genomic DNA isolated from the cells harvested above was partial digested with Sau3AI (TaKaRa Biotechnology, Japan) to obtain 12kb or shorter fragments of DNA. The DNA fragments 

 were inserted into ZAP Expression Vector (Stratagene, U.S.A.) and packaged to prepare a genomic library of Thermotoga neapolitana 5068. Nucleotide sequences of the genes for conventional thermophilic or thermostable arabinose isomerase were analyzed to prepare primer araAF: 5'-ATGATCGATCTCAAACAGTATGAG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 1) and primer araAR: 5 '-TCATCTTTTTAAAAGTCCCC-3 ' (SEQ ID NO: 2), which were used in PCR for the preparation of probes for DNA-DNA hybridization. The genomic library prepared above was screened for DNA fragments containing arabinose isomerase gene by DNA-DNA hybridization to obtain a recombinant vector containing a ' gene encoding arabinose isomerase of Thermotoga neapoli tana 5068. The nucleotide sequence of arabinose isomerase gene (SEQ ID No: 3) cloned above and the deduced amino acid sequence (SEQ ID No: 4) from the said gene were compared with those of known arabinose isomerase genes, respectively (see : Table 1). 
 Table 1: Comparison of homology between arabinose isomerase of the invention and known arabinose isomerases 
 
 
 
 As shown in Table 1, it has been found that the arabinose isomerase of the invention is a novel enzyme which has 83.2% homology of nucleotide sequence and 94.8% 

homology of amino acid sequence to the sequences of published putative arabinose isomerase of Thermotoga maritima , respectvely. 
 Example 2 : Preparation of recombinant expression vector and recombinant E. coli 
 In order to obtain high level expression of the said thermostable arabinose isomerase in E. coli using the arabinose isomerase gene obtained in Example 1, the said gene was inserted into an expression vector pET 22b (+) (Novagen, U.S.A.) double-digested with Ndel and EcoRI to construct a recombinant expression vector pTNAI (see: Figure 1), which was then introduced into E. coli BL21. The transformed recombinant E. coli was named "E. coli BL21/DE3(pTNAI) " and deposited with an international depository authority, the Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms (KCCM, #361-221 Hongje-1-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea) on December 4, 2000 as accession no. KCCM-10231. 
 Example 3 : Expression of recombinant arabinose isomerase 
 The recombinant E. coli BL21/DE3 (pTNAI) (KCCM-10231) prepared in Example 2 was inoculated into LB(Luria- 
 Bertani) medium(l% v/v) and incubated at 37°C for 2 hours, to which lactose was added to a final concentration of ImM and expression of recombinant arabinose isomerase was induced for 12 hours. For assay of expressed arabinose isomerase, cells were collected by centrifugation at 
 8000xg for 10 minutes, resuspended in 10ml of lOOmM MOPS buffer (4-morpholinepropanesulfonic acid, pH 7.0), and then disrupted by sonication to obtain crude enzyme, with which galactose isomerization reaction was  •  carried out. Galactose isomerization was performed by mixing lOOμl of the said crude enzyme solution with 40mM(final concentration) galactose as a substrate, followed by 

adding 1ml of enzyme reaction buffer (lOOmM MOPS buffer, pH 7.0) containing cofactors (ImM MnCl 2 , lmM CoCl 2 ) and incubating at 85 °C for 20 minutes. The product of the above reaction was detected using cysteine-carbazole- sulfuric acid method (see: Dische, Z., and E. Borenfreund. , A New Spectrophotometric Method for the Detection and Determination of Keto Sugars and Trioses, J. Biol . Chem . , 192:583-587, 195i), and it has been found that normal galactose isomerization has been undergone. 
 Example 4 : Purification of recombinant arabinose isomerase 
 For purification of recombinant arabinose isomerase expressed by the method described in Example 3, cells were collected by centrifugation at 8000xg for 19 minutes and cell wall of E. coli was disrupted by sonication, which was followed by centrifugation at 20,000xg for 20 minutes to obtain  ■  supernatant. Then, the said supernatant was heat-treated at 85°C for 20 minutes, centrifuged at 20,000xg for 20 minutes to get rid of precipitate, and the supernatant was further purified by ammonium sulfate- mediated precipitation and finally ion-exchange column chromatography (Q-Sepharose Fast Flow, Pharmacia, Sweden). pH dependancy of the said purified enzyme was analyzed and optimum pH was found to be around 7.0. 
 Example 5 : Optimum pH and optimum temperature of recombinant arabinose isomerase 
 Activity of the purified recombinant arabinose isomerase prepared in Example 4 was analyzed on galactose substrate and optimum pH was found to be around 7.0. Optimum temperature for isomerization reaction was determined using the same method as described in Example 3. The tested reaction temperatures for galactose isomerization were 60, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90 and 100°C, and maximum activity was obtained around 85°C (see: Figure 2). 

 Example 6 : Thermostability of recombinant arabinose isomerase 
 To assess the thermostability of recombinant arabinose isomerase of the invention, crude enzyme prepared in Example 3 was heat-treated at 60, 70, 80 and 90°C for 10, 20, 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes respectively, and remaining activity of recombinant arabinose isomerase for isomerization was determined as described in Example 3 (see: Figure 3). As shown in Figure 3, it has been found that over 80% of enzyme activity was remained after 2 hour heat-treatment at 80°C. 
 Example 7 : Conversion rate of galactose into tagatose at various temperature 
 By employing recombinant arabinose isomerase of the invention, the conversion rate of galactose into tagatose was determined at various temperatures and various time points. Substrate used was lOmM galactose instead of 40mM galactose in enzyme reaction mixture in Example 3. After incubation at 60, 70, 60 and 90°C for 20 hours, tagatose yield was determined employing BioLC (see: Table 2 and Figure 4) . 
 Table 2 : Conversion rate of galactose into tagatose at various temperature 
 
 
 
 As shown in Table 2 and Figure 4, the higher the reaction temperature was, the higher tagatose yield was obtained, and conversion rate into tagatose was as high as 68% at 80°C. 

Example 8 : Immobilization of arabinose isomerase and improvement of thermostability 
 Arabinose isomerase was immobilized on silica beads, heat-treated under an aqueous condition at 90 °C and the remaining activity was determined at various time points (see: Figure 5). As shown in Figure 5, remaining activity of the immobilized enzyme was over 80% after 20 day-heat treatment at 90 °C and over 60% after 30 day-heat treatment, indicating that the immobilized arabinose isomerase of the invention can be applied for thermal process in industry. 
 As clearly illustrated and demonstrated above, the present invention provides a noble gene coding for L- arabinose isomease derived from Thermotoga neapolitana 5068, a thermostable arabinose isomerase expressed from the said gene, a recombinant expression vector containing the said gene, a microorganism transformed with the said expression vector, a process for preparing thermostable arabinose isomerase from the said transformant and a process for preparing D-tagatose employing the said enzyme. Since the recombinant arabinose isomerase of the invention is highly thermostable and can produce tagatose with high yield at high temperature, it can be efficiently applied in pharmaceutical and food industries. 

 
 INDICATIONS RELATING TO DEPOSITED MICROORGANISM OR OTHER BIOLOGICAL MATERIAL 
 
 
 A The indications made below relate to the deposited microorganism or other biological material referred to m description On page 4 , lines 23-33 and page 7 , lines 8-20 
 B IDENTIFICATION OF DEPOSIT Further deposits are identified on additional sheet 
 Name of depositary institution 
 Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms(KCCM) 
 Address of depositary institution (including postal code and country) 
 Korean Culture Center of Microorganisms(KCCM) 361-221, Yurim B/D, Hongje-1-dong, Seodaemun-gu Seoul, 120-091, Republic of Korea 
 Date of deposit Accession Number 
 Dec. 04, 2000 KCCM- 1023 1 
 C ADDITIONAL INDICATIONS (leave blank if not applicable) This information continues on an additional sheet 
 D DESIGNATED STATES FOR WHICH INDICATIONS ARE MADE (if the indications are not for all designated States) 
 E SEPARATE FURNISHING OF INDICATIONS (leave blank if not applicable) 
 The indications listed below will be submitted to the International Bureau later (specijy the general nature of the indications e g , "Accession Number of Deposit ") 
 For receiving Office use only For International Bureau use only 
 Q This sheet was received with the international application D This sheet was received by the International Bureau on 
 Authorized officer Authorized officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
