
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  RHODOCOCCUS RHODOCHROUS STRAIN AND USE THEREOF IN THE  
  PRODUCTION OF ACRYLIC ACID  
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION  
 [0001] This invention relates to a microorganism capable of producing an enzyme to convert acrylonitrile to acrylic acid and to a method of culturing the microorganism. [0002] Acrylic acid is an important starting material in the synthesis of a diverse range of polymers used in applications such as the production of paper, the production of potable water, in mining, and in the treatment of sewerage.  
 [0003] Traditionally acrylic acid is manufactured through gas-phase oxidation of propylene with the use of a chemical catalyst at high temperatures. This chemical conversion process is not selective and can result in a number of impurities being formed due to uncontrolled side reactions. Another drawback of a chemical catalysis process is the difficulty of subsequently recovering the catalyst and the purification of the final product which requires energy intensive distillation. For this reason, the application of a biocatalyst is considered an attractive option.  
 [0004] The applicant is aware of two processes for producing acrylic acid via direct fermentation using microorganisms.  
 [0005] A first fermentation process makes use of a renewable carbon source and produces lactic acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid and glycerol. The process is carried out using naturally occurring microorganisms. The resulting product requires further processing (typically using engineered microorganisms) to produce acrylic acid. [0006] A biosynthetic pathway suggested by Chu, et al. , 2015 was designed for the production of acrylic acid from glucose. Use is made of a genetically engineered strain of Escherichia coli 

 to produce 3-hydroxypropionic acid and then acrylic acid from glucose fermentation. The fermentation of glucose to 3-hydroxypropionic acid is followed by three enzymatic steps to produce an acrylic acid and CoA combination from which acrylic acid can be extracted.  
 [0007] A drawback of direct fermentation of glucose for the production of acrylic acid via a 3- hydroxypropionic acid route is that a very low acrylic acid titer is produced (0.12 g/l). This is due to the acrylic acid product being toxic to the microorganism and thus, after a low level of product has been produced, the microorganism is killed/deactivated  
 [0008] A second strategy (using a non-carbon-based source) is based on a biosynthetic pathway which employs a nitrilase to convert acrylonitrile to acrylic acid and ammonium acrylate. Nitrilases are enzymes available in mostly soil- inhabiting microorganisms like Rhodococcus rhodochrous.  
 [0009] In a study by Armitage, et al., 1999, Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 40757 or NCIMB 40833 was used to convert acrylonitrile to ammonium acrylate in aqueous solutions or vapour. These organisms use two separate metabolic pathways concurrently to produce acrylic acid from acrylonitrile. The first pathway relies on the microorganism’s production of nitrilase to convert the substrate (acrylonitrile) directly into acrylic acid. The second pathway relies on the microorganism’s production of nitrile hydratase and amidase to produced acrylic acid in a two-step process in which the acrylonitrile is converted to acrylamide (unwanted intermediate) by nitrile hydratase and the subsequently the acrylamide is converted to acrylic acid by amidase. Typically, this process produces a final ammonium acrylate product at a concentration of about 5.68 M after a reaction time of 6.7 hours with a residual acrylamide concentration of 0.023 M. In organisms where amidase is defective and nitrile hydratase is active, the acrylic acid product will be contaminated with acrylamide. 

 [0010] Another drawback of the use of the aforementioned organisms is that the nitrilase enzyme is inhibited at high concentrations of the substrate acrylonitrile and can only metabolise the substrate at concentrations between 125mM and 175mM.  
 [0011] It is an aim of the current invention to provide an organism which is capable of producing acrylic acid from an acrylonitrile substrate using a single metabolic pathway that is reliant on a single enzyme, and to provide a method of cultivating such an organism.  
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION  
 [0012] In a biochemically catalysed process, energy efficiency can be increased by reducing the number of enzymes required to convert a substrate into an end product. Thus a strategy to reduce unwanted intermediate products, as well as the enzymes needed to eliminate these intermediate products, is required.  
 [0013] The invention provides a strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous wherein:  
 1. at least a part of a gene coding at least a part of a nitrile hydratase enzyme has been deactivated or rendered ineffective.; or 2. any related gene coding a protein involved in the transcription, translation or formation at least part of the nitrile hydratase enzyme has been deactivated or rendered ineffective..  
 [0014] The aforementioned genes may hereinafter be referred to as undesired genes.  
 [0015] The genes coding for the nitrile hydratase enzyme and the undesired genes may be deactivated or rendered inefficient by means of any suitable optimization process. The 

 optimization process may include artificial selection processes as well as gene knock-out or knock-in processes  
 [0016] The invention also provides a strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous in which the nitrile hydratase enzyme has been inhibited. [0017] Any component of the nitrile hydratase enzyme or any other protein necessary for the functioning or formation of the nitrile hydratase enzyme, or any other protein necessary for the effective transcription or translation of the gene coding for nitrile hydratase may be inhibited.  
 [0018] The nitrile hydratase enzyme and any of the other related proteins may be inhibited by the addition of a suitable inhibitor during culturing of the strain. The inhibitor for inhibiting the nitrile hydratase enzyme may be isobutyronitrile.  
 [0019] The invention further extends to a strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous in which the nitrilase enzyme has been induced.  
 [0020] The nitrilase enzyme may be induced by the addition of a suitable inducer during culturing of the strain. The inducer may be e-caprolactam. [0021] The invention further extends to a naturally adapted strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous which has been adapted to produce a nitrilase enzyme that is active at a high concentration of acrylonitrile. The concentration of acrylonitrile may be above 175mM.  
 [0022] The adapted strain may be optimised by artificially selecting individuals, from the strain, which individuals have shown nitrilase activity at concentrations above 175mM and further culturing the selected individuals. 

 [0023] The selected individuals from the naturally adapted strain may be subjected to a gene knock-out process during which one or more of the undesired genes are replaced with a defective or mutated version of the gene. One example of an undesired gene is nitrile hydratase. . [0024] The invention further extends to a strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous, or any modification or mutant thereof, deposited in terms of the Budapest Treaty on 1 1 September 2017 under accession number NCIMB 42803 at NCIMB Ltd, an international Depository Authority situated at Bucksburn, Aberdeen, AB21 9YA, Scotland.  
 [0025] The strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 42803 or a modification or mutant thereof may have at least a part of a gene coding at least a part of a nitrile hydratase enzyme that has been deactivated or rendered ineffective.  
 [0026] The strain of Rhodcoccus rhodochrous NCIMB 42803 or an modification or mutant thereof may have any gene coding for a protein involved in the transcription, translation or formation of at least part of the nitrile hydratase enzyme that has been deactivated or rendered ineffective.  
 [0027] The strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 42803 or a modification or mutant thereof may have been optimised to express a nitrilase enzyme which is not deactivated at concentrations of acrylonitrile exceeding 175mM.  
 [0028] The strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 42803 or a modification or mutant thereof may be cultivated in the presence of isobutyronitrile to inhibit residual nitrile hydratase activity. 

 [0029] The strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 42803 or a modification or mutant thereof may be cultivated in the presence of be e-caprolactam to induce production of nitrilase  
 DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT  
 [0030] A strain of Rodococcus rhodochrous identified as NCIMB 42803 is cultivated in a growth medium, (containing g/l to 6 g/l e -caprolactam) at 30°C to 40°C for 120 hours (5 days) in 300 ml conical flask. Inhibition of nitrile hydratase produced by the Rhodococcus rhodochrous strain is achieved by adding 2 g/l to 10 g/l of isobutyronitrile. The process is up- scaled to a 3 L volume in a Sarorius 5 L glass bioreactor for a larger yield of enzyme and cell production for use in a bioconversion application. [0031] Bioreactions are performed in a bioreactor at 1 L volumes in which acrylonitrile is added to a reactor containing water and a required quantity of biomass with enzyme activity of 900 000- 1 000 000 U/L. Acrylonitrile is added at a $low rate to keep the acrylonitrile level below toxic levels and to avoid polymerisation. A reacjion that takes place in the reactor is as follows:  
 CN Nitrilase  
  V COOH 
 
 
  Acrylonitrile Acrylic acid  
 [0032] In one example (as shown in the reaction above) the acrylic acid, produced during the biocatalyzed process of the invention, is combined witp ammonia (NH 3 ) which reacts in-situ with the acrylic acid (C3H4O2) to produce an ammonium acrylate (C3H7NO2) solution (with a pH between 6.8-7.1.) which is a suitable precursor in the manufacture of certain polymers. 

 [0033] The advantage of using ammonium acrylate [produced from an acrylic acid obtained from the biocatalytic process herein described is ttjat the acrylic acid is relatively free of undesired by-products, as the acrylonitrile substrate has been converted to acrylic acid in a single enzymatically catalysed step, without any unwanted side-reactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
