
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  HUMAN CANCER SUPPRESSOR GENE, HCCS-4 AND PROTEIN ENCODED THEREIN 
 Field of the Invention 
 The present invention relates to a human cervical cancer suppressor gene, a protein encoded therein, an expression vector containing same, a cell transformed with said expression vector, a method for suppressing proliferation of cancer cells using said expression vector and a pharmaceutical composition for preventing or treating cancer comprising said suppressor gene. 
 Background of the Invention 
 A tumor suppressor protein inhibits the transformation of a normal cell to a cancer cell and, therefore, loss of its activity may contribute to the malignant transformation of a normal cell (Klein G., FASEB J. 7:821-825, 1993). 
 Over twenty tumor suppressor genes and cancer-predisposition syndromes caused by mutation thereof have been reported (Haber D.A. et al, 
 Lancet. 351:1-8, 1998). Among these, alterations of the coding sequence of the p53 tumor suppressor gene have been found to be responsible for most of the human cancers of genetical origin (Weinberg R.A., vide supra; Klein G., vide supra; and Bishop J.M., Cell 64:235-248, 1991). However, only a small portion, i.e., 2 to 11 %, of cervical cancer tissues exhibit p53 mutation (Crook T. et al, Lancet. 339:1070-1073, 1992; Busby-Earle RMC et al., Br. J. Cancer 69:732-737, 1994), which has suggested the existence of other tumor suppressor genes in case of cervical cancer. Therefore, there has existed a need to identify a gene which suppresses cervical cancer. 
 Summary of the Invention 
 Accordingly, the primary object of the present invention is to provide a tumor suppressor gene and a fragment thereof. 
 Other objects of the present invention are to provide: an expression vector containing the tumor suppressor gene or a fragment thereof and a cell transformed therewith; a protein encoded in said tumor suppressor gene and a fragment thereof; a method for suppressing proliferation of cancer cells using the 

expression vector; and a pharmaceutical composition for preventing or treating cancer comprising the tumor suppressor gene or a fragment thereof. 
 In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human cervical cancer suppressor gene having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a fragment thereof. 
 In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an expression vector containing the human cervical cancer suppressor gene or a fragment thereof and a cell transformed with the vector. 
 In accordance with still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a fragment thereof derived from the human cervical cancer suppressor gene or a fragment thereof. 
 Brief Description of the Drawings 
 The above and other objects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the invention, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which respectively show; 
 Fig. 1 : PCR amplification results obtained using the arbitrary 5' 13 mer primer H-AP37 of SEQ ID NO: 3 and the anchored oligo-dT primer of SEQ ID NO: 4; Fig. 2: SDS-PAGE analysis result of protein samples of the E. coli transformed with HCCS-4 gene before and after induction; 
 Fig. 3A: northern blot analysis results showing the expression level i- of HCCS-4 gene in normal cervical tissues, primary cervical cancer tissues and cervical cancer cell line; Fig. 3B: the same blot hybridized with a β-actin probe; 
 Fig. 4A: northern blot analysis results showing the expression level of HCCS-4 gene in various normal human tissues; 
 Fig. 4B: the same blot hybridized with a β-actin probe; 
 Fig. 5A: northern blot analysis results showing the expression level of HCCS-4 gene in various human cancer cell lines; 
 Fig. 5B: the same blot hybridized with a β-actin probe; 
 Fig. 6: growth curves of HeLa cells transfected with HCCS-4 gene, 

HeLa cells transfected with N-terminal FLAG alone and parental wild-type cells. 
 Detailed Description of the Invention 
 The novel tumor suppressor gene of the present invention, designated human cervical cancer suppressor 4 gene (hereinafter, "HCCS-4 gene"), has the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 which was registered at GenBank under the accession number of AF465843 (disclosed on February 1, 2003). In SEQ ID NO: 1, the open reading frame corresponding to base Nos. 
 170 to 1,108 (1,106-1,108: termination codon) is a full-length protein encoding region and the predicted amino acid sequence derived therefrom is shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 which consists of 312 amino acids (hereinafter, "HCCS-4 protein"). However, in consideration of the degeneracy of codons and the preferred codons in a specific organism wherein the tumor suppressor gene of the present invention is to be expressed, various changes and modifications of the DNA sequences of SEQ ID NO: 1 may be made, e.g., in the coding area thereof without adversely altering the amino acid sequence of the expressed protein, or in the non-coding area without adversely affecting the expression of the tumor suppressor gene. Therefore, the present invention also includes, in its scope, a polynucleotide having substantially the same base sequence as the inventive tumor suppressor gene and a fragment thereof. As used herein, "substantially the same polynucleotide" refers to a polynucleotide whose base sequence shows preferably 80% or more, more preferably 90% or more, most preferably 95% or more homology to the tumor suppressor gene of the present invention. 
 The HCCS-4 protein expressed from the tumor suppressor gene of the present invention has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 and its molecular weight is about 35 kDa. 
 However, various substitution, addition and/or deletion of the amino acid residues of the protein may be performed without adversely affecting the protein's function. Further, a portion of the protein may be used when a specific purpose is to be fulfilled. These modified amino acids and fragments thereof are also included in the scope of the present invention. Therefore, the present invention includes, in its scope, a polypeptide having substantially the same amino acid sequence as the protein derived from the tumor suppressor 

gene of the present invention and a fragment thereof. As used herein, "substantially the same polypeptide" refers to a polypeptide whose amino acid sequence shows preferably 80% or more, more preferably 90% or more, most preferably 95% or more homology to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 The HCCS-4 gene, or the protein, of the present invention can be obtained from human tissue or synthesized using a conventional DNA or peptide synthesis method. For example, the HCCS-4 gene of the present invention can be obtained by conventional screening and cloning methods based on the polynucleotides sequence of SEQ ID No: 1. Alternatively, the HCCS-4 gene of the present invention can be attained by plaque hybridizing cDNA library of normal tissue with a 278bp cDNA fragment expressed only in normal tissue, which is obtained through reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using primer H-AP37 of SEQ ID NO: 3 and an anchored oligo-dT primer of SEQ ID NO: 4, 
 The gene thus prepared may be inserted into a conventional vector to obtain an expression vector, which may, in turn, be introduced into a suitable host, e.g., a microorganism such as an E. coli or yeast, or an animal cell such as a mouse or human cell. The transformed host may then be used in producing the inventive DNA or protein on a large scale. For example, E. coli DH5α is transformed with expression vector pCEV-LAC (Miki, T et al, Gene 83:137-146, 1989) containing the inventive HCCS-4 gene (designated HCCS-4/pCEV-LAC) to obtain an E. coli transformant designated DH5α/HCCS-4/pCEV-LAC which was deposited at Korean Collection for Type Cultures (Address: #52, Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, Taejon 305-333, Republic of Korea) on February 18, 2002 under the accession number of KCTC 10178BP, in accordance with the terms of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganism for the Purpose of Patent Procedure. In preparing a vector, expression-control sequences, e.g., a promoter, terminator, self-replication sequence and secretion signal, are suitably selected depending on the host cell used. 
 The HCCS-4 gene of the present invention is expressed in normal human tissues, e.g., normal heart, liver, skeletal muscle, placenta, thymus, spleen and kidney tissues, but not in cancer tissues, e.g., primary cervical cancer and cancer cell lines, e.g., cervical cancer cells HeLa, metastatic common iliac lymph node tissue and CUMC-6. In a normal tissue, the HCCS-4 gene of the 

present invention is over expressed in a transcript of 1 kb, suppressing tumor. 
 The present invention also includes within its scope a pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing cancer which comprises the inventive tumor suppressor gene as an active ingredient and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, excipients or other additives, if necessary. The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is preferably formulated for administration by injection. 
 The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is administered into a cancerous tissue of a subject in a conventional manner to induce apoptosis of the tissue. For example, the tumor suppressor gene of the present invention is encapsulated using a hydrophobized poly-L-lysine derivative in accordance with the method disclosed by Kim, J.W. et al. (J. 
 Controlled Release 53:175-182, 1998) and the resulting encapsulated gene is injected into a cancerous tissue of a subject. The amount of the tumor suppressor gene actually administered should be determined in light of various relevant factors including the condition to be treated, the chosen route of administration, the age and weight of the individual patient, and the severity of the patient's symptoms. 
 The following Examples are intended to further illustrate the present invention without limiting its scope. 
 Example 
 Example 1: Differential display of mRNA 
 (Step 1) Isolation of total RNA 
 Normal exocervical tissue specimens were obtained from uterine myoma patients during hysterectomy, and untreated primary cervical cancer and metastatic common iliac lymph node tissue specimens were obtained during radical hysterectomy. The human cervical cancer cell lines CUMC-6 (Kim, J.W. et al., Gynecol Oncol. 62:230-240, 1996) and HeLa were cultured in Waymouth MB 751/1 medium. 
 Total RNAs were extracted from the tissue specimens and cells, using a commercial system (RNeasy total RNA kit, Qiagen Inc., Germany). DNA contaminants were removed therefrom using Message clean kit (GenHunter Corp., Brookline, MA). 

(Step 2) Differential display 
 Differential display was conducted according to Liang et al. (Science 257:967-971, 1992; Cancer Res. 52:6966-6968, 1992) with minor modifications as follows. 
 0.2 βg each of the total RNAs obtained in Step 1 was subjected to reverse transcription using primer H-T11A of SEQ ID NO: 4, as an anchored oligo-dT primer (RNAimage kit, GenHunter), followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the same anchored primer and the arbitrary 5 '13 mer primer H-AP37 of SEQ ID NO: 3 (RNAimage primer set 1, GenHunter) in the presence of 0.5 mM [α- 35 S]-labeled dATP (1 ,200 Ci/mmol). The PCR thermal cycle was repeated 40 times, each cycle being composed of: 95  ° C for 40 sec, 40 °C for 2 min and 72 °C for 40 sec, and finally the reaction was carried out at 72 °C for 5 min. The PCR product thus obtained was subjected to electrophoresis in 6% polyacrylamide sequencing gels, followed by autoradiography. 
 Fig. 1 shows the differential display results of normal exocervical tissue, cervical cancer tissue, metastatic iliac lymph node tissue and cervical cancer cell line CUMC-6 using the anchored oligo-dT primer and the arbitrary 5 '13 mer H-AP37, wherein the arrow indicates a 278 bp fragment, designated CG375, expressed uniquely in the normal exocervial tissue. This result suggests that fragment CG375 is a tumor suppressor gene candidate. 
 The fragment CG375 band was excised from the dried sequencing gel and boiled in water for 15 min to elute fragment CG375. The fragment CG375 was subjected to PCR using the same conditions except that [α- 35 S]- labeled dATP and 20 μM dNTPs were omitted. The amplified fragment CG375 was cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector using the TA Cloning System (Promega, USA) and its nucleotide sequence was determined using the Sequenase Version 2.0 DNA Sequencing System (United States Biochemical Co., USA) to obtain the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5. Comparative analysis of the nucleotide sequence of fragment CG375 with GenBank database was conducted using BLAST and FASTA programs and the result showed that this fragment has little sequence similarity to any nucleotide sequence registered in the GenBank database. 
 Example 2: cDNA library screening 

 A bacteriophage λgtll human lung embryonic fibroblast cDNA library (Miki, T. et al., Gene 83:137-146, 1989) was screened by plaque hybridization (Sambrook, J. et al., Molecular Cloning: A laboratory manual, New York: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1989) with  32 P-labeled random-primed CG375 cDNA probe (Feinberg, A.P. and Vogelstein, B., Anal. Biochem., 132, 6- 13(1983)) to obtain a full-length cDNA clone (designated HCCS-4). The nucleotide sequence of the full-length HCCS-4 cDNA clone was determined. 
 The full-length HCCS-4 cDNA clone has the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a full open reading frame which encodes a polypeptide consisting of 312 amino acid residues (SEQ ID NO: 2) having an approximate molecular weight of 35 kDa. The nucleotide sequence of full-length HCCS-4 cDNA clone was registered at GenBank under the accession number of AF465843. The full-length HCCS-4 cDNA was inserted in vector pCEV-LAC 
 (Miki, T. et al., Gene 83: 137-146, 1989) to obtain a recombinant vector designated HCCS-4/pCEV-LAC, and E. coli DH5α was transformed therewith to obtain a transformed E. coli designated DH5α/HCCS-4/pCEV-LAC which was deposited at Korean Collection for Type Cultures (Address: #52, Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, Taejon 305-333, Republic of Korea) on February 18, 2002 under the accession number of KCTC 10178BP. 
 In order to confirm the HCCS-4 protein, the full-length HCCS-4 cDNA was inserted at the Sail site of prokaryotic expression vector pGEX 4T-3 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, USA). The resulting recombinant vector HCCS-4/pGEX 4T-3 was transformed into E. coli BL21. The resulting transformant was cultured in LB media and the expression of the HCCS-4 gene was induced by adding isopropylthio-β-D-galactoside (IPTG) thereto and reacting the mixture at 37 ° C for 3 hours. Protein samples were obtained from the culture samples taken before and after the induction and subjected to SDS- PAGE according to Sambrook et al. (vide supra). 
 Fig. 2 shows the SDS-PAGE analysis result of the protein samples of the E. coli transformed with HCCS-4 gene before and after the induction. As can be seen from Fig. 2, a 35 kDa protein matching the polynucleotide sequence was expressed after the induction. 
 Example 3: Northern blot analysis 

 To determine the expression level of HCCS-4 gene in various normal tissues, cancer tissues and cancer cell lines, northern blot analyses were conducted as follows. 
 Total RNAs were prepared from normal exocervical tissues, primary cervical cancer tissues and human cervical cancer cell lines CUMC-6 and HeLa (ATCC CCL-2) by repeating the procedure of Step 1 of Example 1. 20 βg each of the total RNAs were denatured, electrophoresed through 1% formaldehyde agarose gel, and transferred to nylon membranes (Boehringer- Mannheim, Germany). The blots were hybridized overnight at 42 °C with  32 P- labeled random-primed HCCS-4 cDNA probe which was prepared using a rediprime II random prime labeling system (Amersham, England). The northern blot analysis was repeated two times, once by densitometry and the other by hybridizing with a β-actin probe to confirm the mRNA integrity. 
 Fig. 3A shows the northern blot analysis results of normal cervical tissues, primary cervical cancer tissues and cervical cancer cell lines HeLa and CUMC-6 using the HCCS-4 cDNA probe; and Fig. 3B, the same blot hybridized with a β-actin probe. As can be seen from Figs. 3A and 3B, the expression level of HCCS-4 gene was elevated in all normal cervical tissues but nearly absent in the cervical cancer tissues and the cervical cancer cell lines. Using blots transferred with normal human 12 multiple-tissues 
 (Clontech) and human cancer cell lines (Clontech), northern hybridization analyses were also carried out as recommended by the supplier. 
 Fig. 4A shows the northern blot analysis results of normal human tissues, i.e., brain, heart, skeletal muscle, colon, thymus, spleen, kidney, liver, small intestine, placenta, lung and peripheral blood leukocyte using HCCS-4 cDNA probe; and Fig. 4B, the same blot hybridized with a β-actin probe. As can be seen from Figs. 4A and 4B, a dominant HCCS-4 mRNA transcript of approximately 1 kb was also overexpressed in normal liver, kidney, placenta, thymus, spleen, skeletal muscle and heart tissues. Fig. 5 A shows the northern blot analysis results of promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cell, HeLa cervical cancer cell, chronic myelogenous leukemia K-562 cell, lymphoblastic leukemia MOLT-4 cell, Burkitt's lymphoma Raji cell, SW480 colon cancer cell, A549 lung cancer cell and G361 melanoma cell using the HCCS-4 cDNA probe; and Fig. 5B, the same blot hybridized with a β-actin probe. As can be seen from Figs. 5A and 5B, 1 kb HCCS-4 transcripts were not detected in promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cell, HeLa cervical cancer cell, chronic myelogenous leukemia K-562 cell, SW480 colon cancer cell, A549 

lung cancer cell and G361 melanoma cell, and weakly detected in lymphoblastic leukemia MOLT-4 cell and Burkitt's lymphoma Raji cell. This result suggests that HCCS-4 of the present invention has tumor suppress function in normal exocervical, liver, kidney, placenta, thymus, spleen, skeletal muscle and heart tissues. 
 Example 4: Preparation of HeLa cell transfected with human HCCS-4 gene 
 (Step 1) Construction of expression vector 
 The recombinant vector HCCS-4/pCEV-LAC prepared in Example 2 was cleaved with Sail to obtain a full-length HCCS-4 cDNA. Then, the Sail fragment was inserted into the Sail site of eukaryotic expression vector N- terminal FLAG (Sigma, USA) to obtain expression vector N-terminal FLAG/HCCS-4. 
 (Step 2) Transfection 
 The expression vector N-terminal FLAG/HCCS-4 obtained in Step 1 was introduced into HeLa cervical cancer cells (ATCC CCL-2) using lipofectamine (Gibco BRL), and then the resulting HeLa cells transfected with the expression vector N-terminal FLAG/HCCS-4 was selected in a media supplemented with 0.6 mg/mβ G418 (Gibco BRL). Another population of HeLa cells transfected with N-terminal FLGA which did not contain HSSC-4 gene was prepared as a control. 
 Example 5: Growth inhibition of cancer cell by HCCS-5 gene 
 To examine the effect of HCCS-4 gene on cervical cancer cell growth, each of the HeLa cells transfected with N-terminal FLAG/HCCS-4 obtained in Step 2 of Example 4, HeLa cells transfected with N-terminal FLGA alone and wild-type HeLa cells (in a cell number of 1 x 10 5  ) were cultured in RPMI medium for 9 days. In three independent experiments, cells in flasks were detached using trypsin and viable cells were counted on days 0, 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9, respectively, using trypan blue dye exclusion (Freshney, I.R., Culture of animal cells, 2nd Ed. A.R. Liss, New York, 1987). 
 Fig. 6 shows the growth curves of HeLa cells transfected with N- 

terminal FLAG/HCCS-4 (HCCS-4), HeLa cells transfected with N-terminal FLGA alone (N-terminal FLGA) and parental wild-type cells. As can be seen from Fig. 6, the death rate of HeLa cell transfected N-terminal FLAG/HCCS-4 increased compared to those of cells transfected with N-terminal FLGA alone or wild-type HeLa cells. At day 9, the number of viable HeLa cells transfected with N-terminal FLAG/HCCS-4 was about 50% of wild-type HeLa cells. This result suggests that HCCS-4 gene inhibits growth of HeLa cervical cancer cells. 
 While the embodiments of the subject invention have been described and illustrated, it is obvious that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit of the present invention which should be limited only by the scope of the appended claims. 

 
 BUDAPEST TREATY ON THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION OF THE DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PATENT PROCEPUHE 
 INTERNATIONAL FORM 
 RECEIPT IN THE CASE OF AN ORIGINAL DEPOSIT issued pursuant to Rule 7,1 
 TO : KIM, Jin Woo 
 Hyundae Apt 118-804, 
 Apgujung-dong, Kangnaπrgu, Seoul 135-110, 
 Republic of Korea 
 I . IDENTIFICATION OF THE MICROORGANISM 
 Identification reference given by the Accession number given by the DEPOSITOR: INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY: 
 Bsc erichia coli DH5@/HCCS- /pCEV-LAC KCTC 10178BP 
 P . SCIENTIFIC DESCRIPTION AND/OR PROPOSED TAXONOMC DESIGNATION 
 The microorganism identified wιdeτ I above was accompanied by: 
 [ x ] a scientific description 
 [ ] a proposed taxonomic designation 
 (Mark with a cross where applicable) m. RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE 
 This International Depositary Authority accepts the microorganisitn identified under I above, which was received by it on February 18 2002. . RECEIPT OF REQUEST FOR CONVERSION 
 The microorganism identified under I above was received by this International Depository Authority, on and a request to convert the original deposit to a deposit under the Budapest Treaty was received by it on 
 V. INTERNATIONAL DEPOSITARY AUTHORITY 
 Name: Korean Collection for Type Cultures Signature(s) of person(s) having ihe power to represent the International Depositary Authority of authorized official(s): 
 Address! Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB) 
 #52, Oun-dong, Yusong-ku, 
 
 
 Taejon 305-333, Kyung Sook, D Kirector. s* 
 Republic of Korea Date: February 25 2002 
 Form BP 4 (KCTC Form 17) sole psge 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
