
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  METHOD FOR PREVENTING WOOD DECAY, RELATED BIOCONTROL AGENT AND USES  
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION  
 The present invention generally relates to biological control related methods that involve inducing hypovirulence in pathogenic fungi by means of viruses. In particular, the present invention pertains to a method for preventing wood decay by pathogenic fungi, such as Heterobasidion, a related biocontrol agent and uses thereof in preventing forest diseases.  
 BACKGROUND  
 The fimgal genus Heterobasidion includes a number of the most destructive forest pathogens that affect forests worldwide. The genus includes two species clusters: Heterobasidion annosum sensu lato (s. lat., in a broad sense) and Heterobasidion insulare sensu lato. The H. annosum s. lat. complex consists of three European species. H. annosum sensu stricto (s. str., in a strict sense), H. parviporum, and H. abietinum and two North American species: H. irregulare and H. occidentale that have different, but overlapping host tree ranges. The H. insulare complex mainly consists of saprophytic wood decay fungi, all of which occur in Asia.  
 A variety of forest diseases caused by Heterobasidion species affect mostly conifers, wherein H. annosum s. str. and H. irregulare affect mostly pine, H. parviporum spruce, and H. abietinum fir trees. Additionally, H. annosum acts, to some extent, also on broadleaved trees; whereas H. parviporum may cause destruction of young pine trees. In Finland, the only Heterobasidion species present are H. annosum and H. parviporum that vastly cause wood decay in pine- and spruce forests, respectively.  
 Once the infection is established via airborne spores, the fimgus continues spreading from tree to tree in a lateral manner by vegetative growth of mycelium through extending hyphal filaments interconnected by bridges. As a consequence, treating infected forests turns out to be extremely difficult, which results in annual economic losses exceeding 50 and 800 million euros in Finland and Europe, respectively.  
 The situation aggravates with the fact that strains of Heterobasidion species infect mostly healthy trees. In practice, spread of Heterobasidion infection that affects roots, butts and stems of the trees in forests is controlled, within a diseased forest stand, by planting tree species resistant to fimgal infection, by chemical or biological stump treatments and by stump removal. Nevertheless, none of these methods gives full protection against the pathogen. The last two of the aforesaid treatments merely prevent new infections to be 

 established via spores, but have no effect on the above mentioned lateral spread of the pathogen. Furthermore, rotation of tree species within the infected stand is not always possible, since economic yield of these disease-resistant trees is considerably lower in comparison to the disease-prone ones. Additionally, the requirements conferred by the growth habitat and/or destructions caused by herbivores may completely rule-out the use of alternative tree species.  
 The idea of utilizing fungal viruses (mycoviruses) to combat forest diseases is not new. Some mycoviruses are capable of mediating reduced pathogenicity or virulence (hypovirulence) in plant-pathogenic fimgal host, thus preventing spreading the disease. For example, Hypoviridae viruses have been exploited in Europe for decades in combatting chestnut blight induced by Cryphonectria parasitica.  
 About 15-17% of Heterobasidion strains harbor one or more co-infecting viruses with double-stranded RNA (dsR A) genomes (Kashif et al, 2015). Most of the mycovirus species observed in Heterobasidion belong to the family Partitiviridae with more than 20 species observed in these fungi.  
 In Heterobasidion species, partitiviruses were believed to be cryptic viruses with unknown function; however, some members of the Partitiviridae family have turned out to mediate hypovirulence and/or phenotypic alterations in their host fungi. In particular, it has been shown that the Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 from H. annosum (strain HetPVl3-anl) causes serious growth debilitations in H. parviporum and, to some extent, in H. annosum (Vainio et al, 2018 (1)). The study by Vainio et al. had further ascertained high potential of preselected viral strains for use in biocontrol related applications. Based on the results of field trials it is clear that growth of some Heterobasidion strains on trees is considerably diminished when infected by the aforesaid strain HetPVl3-anl.  
 However, the same study had also revealed that H. annosum, the root rot decay fungus, possesses a relatively high level of natural tolerance towards HetPVl3-anl. In this regard, finding an efficient virocontrol-based method for combatting wood decay, in particular, the one caused by Heterobasidion fimgus, still remains a challenge.  
 Another fundamental problem remains associated with the fact that for the viral transmission across pathogenic fungi species to occur (primarily via mycelial bridges), said viral strain-containing mycelia must be brought into physical contact with the living pathogen. Efficiency of the latter step still lacks concept-of-proof in the natural ecosystem conditions. 

 In light of data obtained previously, it appears desirable to complement and update the field of technology related to exploitation of preselected viruses and combinations thereof as biocontrol agents, and to develop reliable and reproducible methods for conducting viral transmission across fimgal pathogens in an economically feasible scale such, as to enable growing healthy stems in forest stands otherwise dominated by fimgal pathogens.  
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION  
 An objective of the present invention is to solve or at least mitigate each of the problems arising from the limitations and disadvantages of the related art. The objective is achieved by various embodiments of a method for preventing wood decay caused by pathogenic fungi, a related biological control agent and uses thereof.  
 Thereby, in one aspect of the invention, a method for preventing wood decay caused by pathogenic fungi is provided, according to what is defined in the independent claim 1. In said method, from a strain of a pathogenic fimgus causing wood decay, a carrier host is established by having a preselected combination of at least a first mycovirus and a second mycovirus introduced thereto, and said carrier host is brought into contact with a surface affected by said pathogenic fungus.  
 In some preferred embodiments, the carrier host is established by the strain of the pathogenic fungus selected from Heterobasidion species. In some further embodiments the carrier host is established by Heterobasidion annosum or Heterobasidion parviporum.  
 In preferred embodiments, the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected such, as to complement each other in terms of a function or functions said my co viruses confer onto one another and/or onto their host. In some instances, it is further preferred that the first mycovirus is selected such, as to exert an at least one negative effect onto pathogenicity of its fimgal host, such as to at least mediate reduced virulence in its host, and wherein the second mycovirus is selected such, as to increase transmission rate of said first mycovirus from the carrier host to a target host established by the pathogenic fimgus on the affected surface. The carrier host can be further advantageously provided in the form of a fimgal mycelium.  
 In some exemplary embodiments, the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected from the double-stranded RNA viruses virulent to Heterobasidion species. In further embodiments, the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are Heterobasidion partitiviruses. In still further embodiments, said first mycovirus is a Heterobasidion 

 partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl3-anl, whereas said second my co virus is a Heterobasidion partitivirus 15 strain HetPVl 5-pal.  
 In said method, the surface, with which said carrier host is brought in contact with, is preferably a living tree, a tree stump or a forest floor surrounding thereof  
 In another aspect of the invention, a biological control agent is provided, according to what is defined in the independent claim 12. Said biological control agent preferably comprises a host established by a strain of a pathogenic fimgus causing wood decay and having a preselected combination of at least a first mycovirus and a second mycovirus introduced thereto.  
 In some preferred embodiments, said biological control comprises the host established by the strain of the pathogenic fimgus selected from Heterobasidion species. In some further embodiments said host is established by Heterobasidion annosum or Heterobasidion parviporum.  
 In preferred embodiments, in the biological control agent the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected such, as to complement each other in terms of a function or functions said myco viruses confer onto one another and/or onto their host.  
 In some exemplary embodiments, in the biological control agent, the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are Heterobasidion partitiviruses. In further embodiments, in the biological control agent said first mycovirus is a Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl 3-anl and said second mycovirus is a Heterobasidion partitivirus 15 strain HetPVl 5-pal.  
 In still further aspect of the invention, use of the biological control agent according to some previous aspect is provided in preventing forest diseases, in accordance to what is defined in the independent claim 18.  
 The utility of the present invention arises from a variety of reasons depending on each particular embodiment thereof. Primarily, the invention generally aims at providing an efficient and ecologically friendly solution for preventing wood decay in forests caused by pathogenic fungi, in particular, pathogens included into the fungal genus Heterobasidion.  
 As specified hereinabove, Heterobasidion pathogens annually cause tremendous economic losses for countries covered with boreal and temperate forests. Thus, Finland annually bears about 40 million euros damages resulting from root and stem decay in spruce caused by H. parviporum and about 10 million euros damages resulting from pine infections 

 caused by H. annosum. The solution according to the present invention allows for effectively preventing the spread of aforesaid pathogenic fungi across forest stands, thereby resulting in significant monetary savings per annum.  
 Based on the findings, which itself provide a deeper insight into host-pathogen interaction biology, the invention further allows for constructing novel biocontrol agents that exploit viral strains in predetermined combinations. Said viral strains, carefully selected to cooperate within an economically important pathogenic host, each has its’ own task with regard to co-infecting virus(es) and/or to the pathogenic host.  
 The present disclosure further concerns provision of a biological agent, comprising a fungal host having at least two viral strains co-introduced thereinto, based on a concept of differentiation of tasks said viral strains possess towards one another and towards their host. In some configurations, the inventive concept is based on an outstanding capability of some preselected viral strain(s) within a predetermined combination to enhance transmissibility of some other preselected viral strain(s), within the same combination, from thus co-infected (carrier) host into a target pathogen, and wherein one or more viral strains within said predetermined combination is/are extremely effective in exerting negative effects on the target pathogen, but alone have very low transmissibility thereinto.  
 The aforesaid concept of viral role distribution and functional cooperation with regard to an economically important pathogen host potentially allows for establishing, within a carrier host, a variety of functional combinations precisely tailored for implementation of miscellaneous biocontrol strategies.  
 The term“wood” is utilized in the present disclosure primarily to encompass trees, tree stumps, as well as shrubs and bushes occurring across a forest stand; however, the term is applicable also to fallen-, cut down-, processed and/or stored wood-based material.  
 The expression“transmission efficacy” is utilized in the present disclosure to indicate transmission rate or transmission frequency of a virus, wherein the latter two terms are utilized interchangeably.  
 The term“pathogenicity” is utilized hereby with reference to the ability of an organism, hereby, fungi, to cause disease or any other harm in its host, whereby the organism can be generally defined as being pathogenic or not. Nevertheless, a degree of virulence potentially exhibited by the pathogenic organism onto its host may depend upon a variety of conditions. 

 The term“strain” is utilized hereby to indicate a subtype of fungus characteristically different, in terms of certain genetic elements, for example, from the other fungi within the same species; whereas the term“isolate” is utilized hereby to further emphasize that a number of isolates is obtainable from one fungal strain.  
 The expression“a number of’ refers hereby to any positive integer starting from one (1), e.g. to one, two, or three. The expression“a plurality of’ refers hereby to any positive integer starting from two (2), e.g. to two, three, or four.  
 The terms“first” and“second”, are used hereby to merely distinguish an element from another element without indicating any particular order or importance, unless explicitly stated otherwise.  
 Different embodiments of the present invention will become apparent by consideration of the detailed description.  
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS  
 Fig. 1 illustrates effects of preselected Heterobasidion mycoviruses onto phenotype and morphology of their hosts.  
 Fig. 2 is a comparison chart demonstrating effects of preselected Heterobasidion mycoviruses in a single infection and in coinfection on the growth of their host after transmission from one fungal host to another.  
 Fig 3 is a comparison chart demonstrating effects of Heterobasidion mycoviruses in coinfection on the amounts of viral transcripts.  
 DETAIFED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS  
 The invention, according to one aspect, pertains to a method for preventing wood decay caused by pathogenic fungi.  
 In particular, the invention concerns a method for effectively preventing diseases underlying said wood decay and caused by Heterobasidion species. The term“preventing” is used in the context of the present disclosure, to indicate applicability of the method in both curing the infected forest stands already inhabited by pathogenic fungi and in restraining said pathogenic fungi from infecting newly grown stems. 

 In the method, a carrier host is advantageously established from a strain of a pathogenic fungus causing wood decay by having at least a first mycovirus and a second mycovirus introduced thereto in a preselected combination. The method further involves bringing thus established carrier host into contact with a surface, object and/or area affected by said pathogenic fungus.  
 The affected surface, object and/or area can be represented by at least living tree, a tree trunk, a tree stump or a forest floor surrounding thereof.  
 The term“carrier host” is used hereby to define a virus-containing fimgal strain utilized, generally speaking, as a carrier of viral particles to the surface, object and/or area affected by the pathogenic fungus. From said carrier host viral particles transmit into the pathogenic fungus inhabiting the affected surface, object and/or area in a manner described hereinbelow; therefore, in some instances the carrier host is referred to as a“donor host”. Said pathogenic fimgus, being a target of preventive treatment discussed hereby, is expected, in turn, to receive viral particles transmitted thereto by- and from the carrier (donor) host, therefore it is referred to, in the present disclosure, as a“target host” and, in some instances, as a“recipient host”.  
 Spread of Heterobasidion fungi across the forest stand, e.g. from tree to tree, is stipulated by vegetative growth of mycelium, thereby fimgal hyphae form fusion points upon contacting one another. This ability to establish fusion points upon hyphal contacts is known as anastomosis. This is an important feature of fungi from the perspective of mycoviruses, as the latter are known to transmit amongst their fimgal hosts through mycelial contacts or bridges (mycelial anastomoses).  
 That viruses transmit from one fimgal mycelium to another in the above described manner is known from the art (Ihrmark et al., 2002). Moreover, partitiviruses of Heterobasidion have been shown to transmit between vegetatively incompatible host strains and even distantly related species of Heterobasidion in the laboratory and in nature (Vainio et al, 2018 (1)).  
 The concept of the present invention advantageously exploits transmission of viral particles through mycelial contacts established between the“donor” mycelium and the “recipient” mycelium. It is hereby preferred that the carrier (donor) host is provided in the form of a fimgal mycelium.  
 The carrier host is thus a constructed fimgal strain established by formation of a coinfection within a single (fimgal) host strain. The term“coinfection” should be generally 

 understood as parallel infection of a single host by more than one virus. Hence, formation of the coinfection in a single host isolate by introducing two viruses thereinto can be referred to as a“double infection”. It should further be noted that provision of a coinfection established, within the concept of the present invention, with more than two viruses in the same host, is not excluded.  
 In preferred embodiments, the carrier host is constructed based on an originally non- infected strain, i.e. a fimgal strain containing no viruses. In such an event, the at least first- and the second myco viruses are introduced into a virus-free host.  
 In alternative embodiments, the carrier host can be constructed based on a fungal strain with a pre-existing viral infection. In such an event, a fimgal strain isolate harboring an at least one preselected mycovirus, such as a first- or a second mycovirus, for example, is obtained, thereafter the at least one other preselected mycovirus, such as a second- or a first mycovirus, accordingly, is inserted into said isolate such, as to establish a preselected combination of the at least two my coviruses in the fimgal host. In the embodiments with the pre-existing viral infection, the carrier host can be established from a fimgal strain harboring an at least one virus that could potentially influence pathogenicity of the fimgus towards its vegetal host, such as a plant or a tree; in some other instances, the carrier host can be established from a fimgal strain harboring virus(es) which, in itself, possess no prominent effects on the appearance and/or functionality of its fimgal host.  
 In some further instances, the carrier host can be constructed based on a fungal strain with multiple pre-existing viruses. In such an event a fungal strain isolate harboring more than two preselected my coviruses is obtained; whereafter said isolate is cured of one or more co-infecting viruses to generate a carrier host strain containing the at least first- and second mycoviruses in a preselected combination. In such cases, virus curing may be conducted by hyphal tip isolation or thermal treatment.  
 In the method, the carrier host is preferably established by the strain of the pathogenic fimgus selected from the species pertaining to the genus Heterobasidion. In some embodiments, the method involves formation of the donor host by Heterobasidion annosum or Heterobasidion parviporum.  
 The basidiomycete fimgus Heterobasidion annosum (s. str.) is a pathogen that attacks primarily pine trees causing root rot disease (Annosus root rot, p-type). Heterobasidion parviporum attacks mostly spruce, in which it causes root rot diseases known as s-type (Annosus root rot, s-type). 

 In various embodiments, the carrier host can be established based on the pathogenic fimgal host species same or different with regard to the target (recipient) host. By the way of the example, the carrier host originally established on the basis of H. annosum may be brought into contact with the surface, object and/or area harboring the target host formed by H. annosum or H. parviporum.  
 It should be further noted that the selection of fungal host species as above has been primarily influenced by needs and requirements conferred by that fact that the aforesaid fungi cause the most destruction in Northern Europe and, in particular, in Finland. In this regard, establishing the donor host based on the other Heterobasidion species, more common in North America or Asia, for example, should not be ruled out, as long as the donor host thus established harbors at least the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus in a preselected combination that falls under the concept of the present invention. Such other Heterobasidion species include, but are not limited to: H. irregulare, H. abietinum, H. occidentale, H. insulare, H. ecrustosum, H. australe, H. orientale, H. linzhiense, H. amyloideum and H. tibeticum. For the sake of clarity, it should be noted that pathogenic activity for such Heterobasidion species as H. insulare, H. ecrustosum, H. australe, H. orientale, H. linzhiense, H. amyloideum and H. tibeticum has not been demonstrated (yet); however, these species can turn out pathogenic when introduced into the other environments.  
 In the method, according to some aspect, the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected such, as to complement each other in terms of a function or functions said mycoviruses confer onto one another and/or onto their fimgal host. The inventive concept is thus put into practice when any one of the co-infecting viral strains that establish the predetermined viral combination within the carrier host fulfills the at least one of the following conditions: it confers a predetermined functionality on its co-infecting viral strain; it enhances otherwise weak or silent functional features of its co-infecting viral strain, and/or it assists the co-infecting viral strain in performing some predetermined functions with regard to another virus and/or a fimgal host. In some instances, the coinfection can be established in a manner that each viral strain complements another one in performing particular function(s).  
 In some preferred embodiments, the first mycovirus is selected such, as to exert an at least one negative effect onto pathogenicity of its fungal host. In some embodiments, the first mycovirus is selected such, as to mediate reduced virulence (hypovirulence) in its fimgal host. In some instances, a property of inducing hypovirulence can be associated with an additional property of inhibiting growth rate in the fungal host. Further effects conferred by 

 the first mycovirus on its’ host include, but are not limited to restraining competitive ability and/or reducing germination frequency of basidiospores.  
 Accordingly, in some embodiments, the second mycovirus is selected such, as to increase transmission efficacy of the first mycovirus from the carrier host to a target host established by the pathogenic fimgus on the affected surface. Increasing transmission efficacy indicates hereby acquired- or markedly improved transmissibility of the first mycovirus from one fimgal host to another. Indication for increased transmission efficacy has been obtained by measuring transmission frequency (transmission rate) in comparative experimental trials, in accordance to what is described hereinbelow.  
 In some further embodiments, the preselected combination of viruses within the carrier host is established such that both viruses exert a number of supplementing effects onto one another and/or onto their host.  
 Said at least first mycovirus and second mycovirus described hereby are preferably selected from the non-identical, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) viruses virulent to Heterobasidion species. Preferably, the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are the partitiviruses of Heterobasidion, i.e. partitiviruses that infect forest pathogenic fungi of genus Heterobasidion.  
 Members of family Partitiviridae, generally referred to as partitiviruses, are relatively common mycovirus species observed in Heterobasidion. These viruses have genomes composed of two segments of double-stranded RNA packed in separate protein capsids and encoding for a putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and a capsid (coat) protein (CP), respectively (Vainio & Hantula, 2016). It has been generally considered that a partitiviral particle consists of 120 CP molecules and of only one RdRp (Vainio et ah, 2018 (2)). The family Partitiviridae contains several genera, amongst which are Alphapartitivirus, Betapartitivirus, Gammapartitivirus and Deltapartitivirus. The present disclosure is focused on viral species belonging to the genus Alphapartitivirus.  
 The ratio of CP to RdRp varies considerably amongst Heterobasidion partitivirus species, although each virus has a similar RdRp to CP ratio in different hosts (Jurvansuu et al., 2014). Based on the generally recognized structure of a partitiviral particle it has been further considered that in mycelium of Heterobasidion fungi infected with partitiviruse(s) coat protein expression (CP) prevails over that for the polymerase (RdRp). However, an alphapartitivirus Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl3-anl forms an exception, thereby in mycelium of Heterobasidion fungi infected by HetPVl3-anl, the RdRp- encoding genome segment of HetPVl3-anl appears to be better represented compared to 

 the CP-segment (Vainio et al., 2015). Underlying mechanism for this phenomenon is not yet known, however, according to some hypotheses, it is possibly excessive expression of viral RdRp that accounts for detrimental effects of HetPVl3-anl on its’ fungal host, due to its likely capability to alter gene expression of the host in a variety of ways (Vainio et a , 2018 (1)).  
 Mentioned strain HetPVl3-anl has been previously shown to cause severe growth debilitation of the at least H. parviporum in natural substrates. In fact, the same effect has been observed in its native host - H. annosum, adjusted for a relatively high degree of natural tolerance possessed by H. annosum towards HetPVl3-anl (Vainio et al, 2018 (1)). That Heterobasidion partitiviruses more often influence the growth of a non-native (exotic) host has been previously confirmed by Jurvansuu et al, 2014.  
 For the purposes of the present invention, alphapartitivirus Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl3-anl has been selected as a first mycovirus. Complete biological sequence information for said strain is available from GenBank (National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), U.S. National Library of Medicine) under accession numbers KF963177.1 (RdRp) and KF963178.1 (CP). Native host species for said strain is H. annosum, whose ordinary host tree is Pinus sylvestris (Scots pine).  
 In some embodiments, the second mycovirus is an alphapartitivirus Heterobasidion partitivirus 15 strain HetPVl 5-pal. Complete biological sequence information for said strain is available from GenBank under accession numbers KF963186.1 (RdRp) and KF963187.1 (CP). Native host species for said strain is H. parviporum, whose ordinary host tree is Picea abies (Norway spruce).  
 Viral strain HetPVl 3-anl has been isolated by one of the inventors from H. annosum strain 94233 in 2010. Originally, the strain 94233 has been obtained from a Pinus sylvestris tree in Poland in 1994. Viral strain HetPVl 5-pal has been isolated from H. parviporum strain 95122 originally obtained from a Picea abies tree Russia (Sverdlovsk, Pervouralsk), in 1995 (Kashif et al., 2015).  
 Comparative analysis of genomes had demonstrated that the strains HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal share, at a nucleotide level, 57,7% and 67,7% similarity for RdRp and CP segments, accordingly. HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal are classified as distinctive virus species by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (Vainio et al., 2018 (2)).  
 According to the prior data, functionality of said first mycovirus, although stunning in terms of potential economic benefits, has been greatly hampered due to its poor 

 transmission rate via hyphal bridges. However, the research underlying the present invention had guided the inventors to a surprising outcome that in specific, preselected combinations with the second mycovirus, transmission efficacy of the first mycovirus increased about threefold in comparison to a single transmission (i.e. transmission of the first mycovirus alone). As a consequence of such increase in transmission efficacy, considerably more prominent effects of the first mycovirus on phenotype of the fimgal host could be demonstrated. Only in a preselected combination the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus fulfill the requirement for formation of an economically feasible biocontrol agent, which can be effectively benefited in preventing forest diseases caused by pathogenic fungi.  
 Hence, the method disclosed hereby exploits the experimentally proved indication of role distribution and functional cooperation between the at least two non-identical viral strains introduced into a fimgal host, whereupon at least the first mycovirus is selected to cause a pronounced anti-pathogenic, disease-preventive effect in the fimgal host, whereas at least the second mycovirus is selected to improve transmissibility of the first mycovirus amongst fimgal hosts. Transmissibility can be improved by increasing the transmission efficacy (transmission rate) thereof from the carrier (donor) host to the target (recipient) host at least twofold, preferably, threefold, when compared to the transmission rate of the first mycovirus alone.  
 In some instances, the cooperation between the viral strains in unidirectional, thereupon the first mycovirus is selected such, as to exert negative effect(s) on its fimgal host, whereas the second mycovirus is selected to act as a transmissibility enhancer for the first mycovirus. In some other instances, a bidirectional cooperative concept is established within a co-infected carrier host, wherein each virus within the coinfection exhibits a predetermined harmful effect or effects onto its fimgal host and additionally enhances transferability of its co-infecting virus across fungal strains.  
 The results of the experimental trials conducted to support the findings underlying the concept of the present invention are presented hereinbelow.  
 Viral transmission trials have been conducted to observe, whether pre-existing viral infections within the target (recipient) host or a double infection in the carrier (donor) host mycelium affects the probability of viral transmission. Transmission experiments primarily involved H. annosum strain 03021 (a virus-free isolate obtained from Finland), therefrom a donor host has been established, whereas H. annosum strain 94233 has been used as a recipient host. Transmission of the alphapartitivirus strains HetPVl3-anl and/or HetPVl5- 

 pal has been performed using the dual culture transmission methods, as described hereinbelow.  
 Prior to transmission frequency experiments, the donor (double infected H. annosum strain 03021) has been constructed in two steps. During the first step a dual culture has been prepared by inoculating H. annosum strain 94233 hosting HetPVl3-anl as a donor and virus-free H. annosum strain 03021 as a recipient in a single agar plate and allowing two fungi mycelia to grow into a contact. Mycelia from the recipient side have been transferred to a new agar plate and a single hyphal tip culture has been prepared using a modified Pasteur pipet tip.  
 Thereafter, the resulting strain 03021 with virus HetPVl3-anl from the abovementioned dual culture has been transferred to another dual culture as a recipient, whereas the H. parviporum strain 95122 (the original host of HetPVl 5-pal) has been introduced to the same culture as a donor. Transmission of both viruses in these experiments has been confirmed by RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) using primers specific to the virus being transferred from donor mycelium, whereupon formation of replication product is expected only in an event the transmission has occurred. In order to make sure that the isolated mycelium constitutes the recipient host, viral genotypes have been confirmed using a pairing test and genetic fingerprinting. The latter test(s) have been performed to avoid confusion of the target (recipient) strain with the donor strain that could accidentally mix with recipient mycelia.  
 Further virus transmission frequency experiments were conducted using dual fungal cultures on single MEA (Malt Extract Agar) plates incubated at 20°C for 4 weeks until the formation of clear hyphal contacts and a demarcation zone indicating somatic incompatibility between the strains (donor host H. annosum 03021 and recipient host H. annosum 94233). After the incubation, subcultures were established from the recipient side of the plate using a sterilized Pasteur pipette with a diameter of 5 mm from 3 sampling points, unless the area occupied by the slowly growing recipient strain allowed sampling from only one spot. The three subcultures were then combined, cultured on MOS and analyzed for the transmission of viruses using RT-PCR with virus-specific primers.  
 The data on fungal isolates and viral strains utilized for the experimental trials conducted hereby are summarized in Table 1.  
 Table 1. Summary on fungal isolates and alphapartitivirus strains utilized in viral transmission experiments. 


 
 
 H. annosum 94233 is thus a native host of HetPVl3-anl, which has low growth rate and displays abnormal mycelial morphology characterized by increased hyphal branching. Thermal treatment (4 weeks of incubation at 32 °C on 2% MEA.) has been used to cure H. annosum 94233 of HetPVl3-anl infection, which produced a fimgal strain with normal hyphal morphology and growth, designated 94233 cured (Vainio et al., 2018 (1)).  
 Trials included transmission of HetPVl3-anl from the donor host H. annosum 03021 to the recipient host H. annosum 94233 with twenty (20) repetitions (Table 2). Observed transmission frequency constituted 25% (5 out of 20) upon transmission of the first mycovirus HetPVl3-anl to the virus-free recipient host. At the same time, the viral strain HetPVl 5-pal alone demonstrated zero transmission frequency upon transmission to the virus-free recipient host. However, transmission frequency of HetPVl5-pal increased from zero to 50%, when the recipient host was pre-infected with HetPVl 3-anl (10 infections out of 20). Transmission efficacy of HetPVl 3-anl with regard to the recipient host pre-infected with HetPVl 5-pal constituted 40% with 8 infections out of 20 (Table 2). Table 2. Transmission rates of alphapartitivirus strains from the donor host (H. annosum 03021) to the recipient fungal isolate H. annosum 94233). Transmission rates are shown in percent (%).  
 
 
 
 Results obtained from reverse transmission experiments (Table 2a), in which H. annosum strain 94233 has been used as a donor host and H. annosum strain 03021 as a recipient host, confirm the outcome of transmission experiments shown in Table 2. Thus, transmission frequency of HetPVl5-pal constituted 50%, when the recipient host was pre- infected with HetPVl3-anl, whereas transmission rate of HetPVl3-anl into the recipient host pre-infected with HetPYl 5-pal constituted 100%. 

 Table 2a. Reverse transmission using H. annosum strain 94233 as a donor host and H. annosum strain 03021 as a recipient host. Transmission rates are shown in percent (%).  
 
 
 
 With reference to Table 3, transmission of viruses from the donor host H. annosum 03021 having a coinfection with a preselected combination of the first mycovirus HetPVl 3-anl and the second mycovirus HetPVl 5-pal established therewithin to a virus-free recipient host H. annosum 94233 have resulted in 75% transmission frequency for both viruses (15 samples out of 20 contained both viruses). Additionally, transmission frequency of 15% has been observed for HetPVl 5-anl alone, thus resulting in an overall transmission rate for HetPVl5-pal being 90% (18 out of 20). It should be noted hereby, that HetPVl5-pal appears to demonstrate transmissibility, even in an absence of the co-infecting virus (15%, Table 3), in the experiments employing a double-infected donor host.  
 Table 3. Transmission from the donor host H. annosum 03021 having a viral coinfection established therein with a combination of HetPVl 5-pal and HetPVl3anl to the virus-free recipient host H. annosum 94233  
   
 The results shown above confirm that transmissibility of the first myco virus, hereby, HetPVl 3-anl, had markedly improved upon establishing in its fimgal host a coinfection with the second mycovirus, hereby, HetPVl 5-pal. Thus, transmission rate for the first myco virus alone constituted 25% (Table 2), whereas transmission rate for said first mycovirus combined with said second mycovirus constituted 75% (Table 3). Moreover, the second mycovirus (HetPVl5-pal) does not transmit at all in an absence of other viruses (Table 2), but it moves very efficiently when present in the fungal (donor) host in a combination with said first mycovirus (transmission rate increased up to 90%, Table 3).  
 Importantly, it should be noted that viral strains HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal has never been observed to co-occur naturally; therefore, a concept of role distribution and functional 

 cooperation within a coinfection established in a fungal host has been developed during research trials underlying the present invention.  
 Mechanism underlying the above described viral cooperation concept remains to be determined. The results obtained hereby demonstrate that lateral (horizontal) transmission of viruses depends not only on their relationship with the fimgal host, but it is also affected by co-infecting viruses. Again, viral interactions within a host appear to be fimgal strain- specific. Although some data exist on the ability of certain hypovirulence-associated viruses to suppress somatic (vegetative) incompatibility in fungi, inter alia by altering intracellular signal transduction pathways, there is no such data available for Heterobasidion fungi and associated viruses.  
 Mentioned vegetative incompatibility (non-self recognition) is a common phenomenon in filamentous fungi that causes programed cell death, when fimgal cells of incompatible strains contact each other. Virus-mediated attenuation of non-self recognition in fungal host thus potentially enables horizontal transmission of viruses between vegetatively incompatible species. Although it is evident that Heterobasidion hosts described hereinabove belong to different vegetative compatibility groups, as they form clear contact / demarcation zones at dual culture transmission plates (Fig. 1A), a virus-mediated mechanism potentially underlying suppression of somatic incompatibility in Heterobasidion species remains to be elucidated.  
 Figure 1 thus illustrates hyphal phenotype and morphology of Heterobasidion strains with or without partitivirus infection. Fig. 1 shows, at (A): phenotype of dual cultures showing the demarcation area (dark dashed lines) between donor and recipient isolates and sampling spots shown by arrows; and at (B): morphology of fimgal cultures under light microscope before and after infection with alphapartitiviruses, wherein: at (Bl) virus-cured H. annosum 94233 (9423332D(-)) shows normal less branched growth of hyphae; at (B2a) native H. annosum 94233 infected with HetPVl3-anl (94233(HetPVl3-anl)) displays extensively branched hyphae; and (B2b) is a microscopic view of a whole accumulated stunted hyphal growth in native 924233(HetPVl3-anl). In terms of host morphology, at (B3) transmission of HetPVl3-anl from the donor (03021) to recipient fungal host (94233) shows the same hyphal appearance as shown in the native host (94233(HetPVl3-anl)). Item B4 shows 94233 infected with HetPVl 5-pal (94233(HetPVl5)) after having lost HetPVl3-anl during dual culture. Hereby, H. annosum recipient host 94233, which originally contained HetPVl 3-anl, had lost said virus over the course of dual culture experiments; however, transmittal of the viral strain HetPVl 5-pal into said fimgal host has 

 been observed. Item B5 shows 94233 co-infected by HetPVl3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal exhibiting restricted and debilitated hyphal growth as shown above in B2b.  
 Further trials concerned determining an impact of viral coinfection on its host's growth rate. This has been studied using two independently infected H. annosum strains 94233, as recipient hosts, with 12 parallel measurements. Figure 2 shows the effect imposed by the first mycovirus HetPVl 3-anl and/or the second mycovirus HetPVl 5-pal onto the growth of their fimgal host after transmission from the donor H. annosum 03021 to the recipient H. annosum 94233.  
 The legend for Fig. 2 should be read as follows. Sample A =03021, is a naturally virus-free fungal strain (donor/77 annosum ). Sample B =94233-cured, is a fimgal isolate 94233 (recipient/77 annosum ) cured of virus HetPVl3-anl. Samples C and F =l5pal (8 and 6) are two separate fimgal isolates (94233) infected by HetPVl 5-pal. Samples D and H = l5pal+l3anl (8 and 6) are two independent isolates (94233) co-infected by HetPVl5pal and HetPVl3-anl. Samples G and E =l3anl (2 and 15) are two separate isolates (94233) where HetPVl 3-anl was re-introduced to its native host.  
 During growth rate determination trials it has been established that 77. annosum derivatives having a single infection with HetPVl 3-anl possessed reduction in their growth rates by 87% and 89% (Fig. 2; samples E and G, respectively) in comparison with the cured isolate (sample B). However, 77. annosum 94233 co-infected with HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal has shown growth reduction, in some instances, by 95% (Sample H), as compared to the cured isolate (sample B).  
 Even slower growth rate, corresponding to growth reduction by 96% as compared to the cured isolate (Sample B) has been demonstrated by the isolate obtained from the native 77. annosum 94233 with naturally harbored HetPVl 3-anl (Sample I). From the other hand, 77. annosum strain 94233 infected with HetPVl 5-pal alone demonstrated growth reduction by 80% and 88%, accordingly (Fig. 2, samples C and F, respectively), in comparison with the cured isolate (sample B).  
 Hence, HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal cause considerable reduction in the growth rate of their 77. annosum hosts both alone and in coinfection. For HetPVl 3-anl alone, this is in line with the results obtained previously (Vainio et al., 2018 (1)).  
 It has been further observed, that double infection of 77. annosum by viral strains HetPVl 3- anl and HetPVl 5-pal causes highly negative phenotypic effects in this host. This is despite the fact that infection histories for infected strains, in terms of evaluation of 

 mycelial phenotypes as an outcome of independent transmissions, were dissimilar. This history, however, affected the degree of debilitation in most cases (i.e. HetPVl5-anl alone, coinfection of HetPVl3-anl and HetPVl5-pa) and also the degree of variation between parallel (technical) replicates (HetPVl 5-pal isolate 6 vs. isolate 8). The expression infection history refers hereby to production of otherwise identical fimgal strains in different transmission trials. In some instances, said identical fungal strains with dissimilar infection histories (originating from different transmission trials) may demonstrate somewhat deviating behavior.  
 The outcome of these experimental trials confirm that a cost-effective biological control agent can be established from the (carrier) host formed by a strain of a pathogenic fungus causing wood decay, hereby, Heterobasidion, and having a preselected combination of at least a first my co virus and a second my co virus introduced thereto. In the examples above the first mycovirus, HetPVl 3-anl, acts as a primary wood decay causing pathogen- preventive agent by dramatically inhibiting growth of its fimgal host, whereas the second mycovirus, hereby HetPVl 5-anl, provides for enhanced transmissibility of said first mycovirus from one (carrier) host to the target pathogen in natural conditions.  
 It should be noted that the host pathogen growth reduction functionality has been observed, during the above described trials, also for the second mycovirus HetPVl 5-anl, in which event the first mycovirus (HetPVl3-anl) has been shown to enhance transmissibility of said second mycovirus from one host to another. These facts confirm a concept of viral co operation within the fungal host, wherein the viral strains, that establish a coinfection, complement each other in terms the function(s) they confer onto each other and onto their host.  
 Further trials concerned determining the effects imposed by the first- and/or second viruses, hereby, HetPVl 3-anl and/or HetPVl 5-pal, on relative amounts of viral CP- and RdRp transcripts in a fimgal host. Experiments have been performed by the methods of quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR) for absolute quantification. A reference is made to Fig. 3, wherein chart Al shows quantification of viral transcripts standardized to the amounts of Heterobasidion RNA pol2 mRNA. In comparison with HetPVl 5-pal, the amounts of HetPVl 3-anl transcripts were considerably reduced in coinfection. Chart A2 shows the relative ratio CP to RdRp of viral transcripts varied to lower or higher extent in each isolate of HetPVl5; however the transcripts ratio for HetPVl3-anl remained the same after reduction in coinfection. l5pal (6 and 8) are two independent recipient fungal isolates (94233) infected by HetPVl5-pal, l5pal/l3anlCoinf. (6 and 8) are two separate isolates 

 co-infected by HetPVl 5-pal and HetPVl3-anl, and l3anl(2 and 15) are two isolates infected by solely HetPV 13-anl .  
 From Fig. 3 (Al, A2) it could be observed that the amounts of HetPVl 5-pal transcripts remain, on average, comparable in a single infection and in coinfection with HetPVl 3-anl, although some variation existed between two independently created isolates l5pal (6 and 8). Thus, the CP to RdRp transcript ratio of HetPVl 5-pal in two independent isolates was 1 :91 and 1 : 102 in a single infection and 1 :84 and 1 : 132 in coinfection, respectively.  
 On the contrary, the amounts of HetPVl 3-anl transcripts have been considerably reduced in mycelia co-infected by both viruses, in comparison to the same infected by a single virus (hereby, HetPVl3-anl). Reduction constituted up to 4.8-fold for RdRp and up to 4.6-fold for CP, respectively. Nevertheless, although the absolute quantities of transcripts were leveled down, the transcript ratio between CP and RdRp in HetPVl 3-anl remained very similar for the single infection (1 : 4) and for the coinfection (1 : 6).  
 At least for the viral strain HetPVl 3-anl, these results demonstrate the influence of viral coinfection on the amounts, and to a lesser extent, ratio of RdRp and CP transcripts.  
 Additionally, the results shown above demonstrate that viral strains HetPVl 3-anl (single infection) and HetPVl 5-pal (single infection) both expressed considerably more polymerase (RdRp) than the coat protein (CP). Thus, for each of HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal in a single infection, the amount of RdRp transcripts exceeded that of CP transcripts 6 times and 102 times, respectively. This is line with the study by Vainio et al, 2015, discussed hereinabove, that HetPVl 3-anl produces higher amounts for RdRp.  
 Presently obtained and previously undisclosed data that also HetPVl 5-pal expresses more RdRp transcripts than CP transcripts, thus allows for challenging the accepted view that the theoretically expected higher need for CP genes (based on the fact that 120 CP molecules vs 1 RdRp molecule required to form a functional partitiviral particle; Jurvansuu et al, 2014) would usually be reflected in the quantity of transcripts within mycelia.  
 The present invention further concerns provision of a biological control agent for controlling pathogens that causes diseases in their vegetal hosts, in particular, economically valuable vegetal hosts. Said biological control agent preferably comprises a host formed by a strain of a pathogenic fimgus causing wood decay and having a preselected combination of at least a first myco virus and a second mycovirus introduced thereto. 

 It is further preferred that said biological control comprises the host formed by the strain of the pathogenic fimgus selected from Heterobasidion species, in accordance to what has been discussed hereinabove. Thus, in some exemplary configurations said host can be established by Heterobasidion annosum or Heterobasidion parviporum.  
 In said biological control agent the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected such, as to complement each other in terms of a function or functions said my co viruses confer onto one another and/or onto their host.  
 In some exemplary configurations, in said biological control agent the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are Heterobasidion partitiviruses. Particular examples include provision of above discussed Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl3-anl as the first mycovirus and, similarly, provision of the Heterobasidion partitivirus 15 strain HetPVl 5- pal as the second mycovirus.  
 The invention further pertains to a use of the biological control agent described hereinabove in preventing forest diseases.  
 Thus, the effects of the double infection by HetPVl3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal in wood colonization by Heterobasidion fimgus have been assessed in field trials using spruce logs. In order to confirm enhanced transmission of HetPVl 3-anl from the double-infected donor host in conditions of natural medium, two virus-free H. parviporum strains (H. parviporum strains 5A and 242-05), which acted as target (recipient) hosts, have been inoculated outdoors by spreading fungal mycelium, by spraying, on the top of fresh Norway spruce logs (about 30 cm high and having about 20 cm in diameter) and allowed to grow into said wood material for three weeks.  
 Infection / transmission experiments have been performed with twenty (20) repetitions and involved cutting off a thin sample disc from the top of each spruce log (onto which the virus-free target host has been allowed to grow) followed by spreading a carrier (donor) host strain onto the exposed surface (by spraying). Thus obtained sample disc has been then returned back to cover the infected surface and protect inoculum from drying.  
 The donor host has been established, in turn, from a strain of H. parviporum carrying a coinfection with HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal. The H. parviporum strain containing a single infection with HetPVl 3-anl has been used as a control donor host. In particular, two Heterobasidion strains (H. parviporum strain SB9.3 and H. parviporum strain 96128) have been used as donors, so that each of these two strains hosted the double infection as mentioned above and the single infection with HetPVl 3-anl (the control donor host). 

 Ten weeks later the experiments have been dismantled, whereby another sample disc has been cut off from each log 3-5 cm below the treatment level / the infected surface and Heterobasidion mycelium has been cultured from these samples discs. Genotype of said target host has been confirmed by pairing experiments, whereas the presence of viral strains HetPVl3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal in mycelium of the recipient host has been confirmed by RT-PCR. An impact of HetPVl 5-pal onto transmission frequency has been determined by comparing results obtained for isolates containing both viral strains and for isolates containing only HetPVl 3-anl strain.  
 During the trials it has been observed that transmission frequency for HetPVl 3-anl has been about three times higher for transmission experiments employing the donor host with the coinfection (HetPVl3-anl and HetPVl5-pal) established therein, in comparison to the control donor host containing a single infection with HetPVl 3-anl.  
 Transmission experiments described above can be carried out in similar manner for the donor host with a sole virus HetPVl 3-anl and for the donor host with the double infection (HetPVl 3-anl and HetPVl 5-pal). Viral infection underlying the biocide action of Heterobasidion my co viruses according to the present disclosure can be established by inoculating virus-hosting mycelia to a stump or a log (e.g. a conifer stump) with Heterobasidion infection so, that the virus carrying donor strain will be in physical contact with the naturally occurring (damage causing) mycelium in the stump. This can be achieved by various means including, for example: 1) cutting out the top of the stump and spreading donor mycelia (in liquid solution or mixed with sawdust) on an open surface (fresh surface) of the stump; and 2) preparing a wooden dowel with the virus carrying donor strain grown on it and boring the dowel into the stump. Other appropriate methods can be advantageously utilized. The same method can be used with any ( Heterobasidion ) donor host independently on whether it carries a single infection or a double infection).  
 We further emphasize that the present invention concerns a combination of Heterobasidion viruses (a co-infection) established in a Heterobasidion host. Particular species and origin of said host are not of primary relevance for establishing the co-infection. Still, for conservation and storage purposes, for example, provision of a viral strain or strains in a fungal host other than the native host for said virus may be desired to avoid pathogenic effects exerted on host fungi by said viruses.  
 These results confirm marked improvement in transmissibility of the first my co virus, hereby, HetPVl 3-anl, in presence of the second mycovirus, hereby HetPVl 5-pal, also in nature. The results as above further allow for substantiating feasibility of the biological 

 control agent, according to some aspect of the invention, for use in preventing wood decay and combatting associated diseases.  
 It should be clear to a person skilled in the art that the inventive concept is intended to cover various modifications of basic embodiments disclosed hereby. The examples presented hereinabove are understood to be illustrative of various embodiments of the present invention and should not be understood restrictive ly with respect to the scope of appended claims.  
 DEPOSITE STATEMENT. The invention involves mycoviruses virulent to Heterobasidion species, in particular, Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl3-anl and Heterobasidion partitivirus 15 strain HetPVl5-pal. Samples of Heterobasidion fungi (host organisms) containing these viral strains have been deposited with the Natural Resources Institute Finland (Luonnonvarakeskus, Finland), former (as prior to 1 January 2015) Finnish Forest Research Institute (Metla, Finland) and accorded the following reference numbers:“94233 (HetPVl3-anl)” for Heterobasidion annosum 94233, containing virus HetPVl3-anl (deposited on 25 March 2010);“95122 (HetPVl 5-pal)” for Heterobasidion parviporum 95122, containing virus HetPVl5-pal (deposited in 1995);“Hp SB6.26 PV13- anl” for Heterobasidion parviporum SB6.26, containing virus HetPVl3-anl (deposited on 14 February 2019); and“Hp SB9.3 PVl5-pal” for Heterobasidion parviporum SB9.3, containing virus HetPVl5-pal (deposited on 14 February 2019). These deposits were not made to an International Depository Authority (IDA) as established by Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure. From their original deposition dates the samples were available upon request for scientific purposes, as a part of a common practice in academic circles.  
 The deposited organisms were not acceptable by the VTT Culture Collection (VTTCC) (Finland) as the International Depository Authority (IDA). Neither the deposited organisms were acceptable by the following IDAs: Feibniz Institut (DSMZ, Germany), Institut Pasteur (CNCM; France), and the National Collection of Pathogenic Viruses (NCPV) at the European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC; United Kingdom). Deposit of the samples Hp SB6.26 PVl3-anl and Hp SB9.3 PV15-pal under the Budapest Treaty with the Westerdijk Fungal Biodiversity Institute (CBS, Netherlands), as the IDA, is pending.  
 REFERENCES  
 1. Ihrmark et al, 2002. Transmission of double-stranded RNA in Heterobasidion annosum. Fungal Genetics and Biology 36: 147-154. 

2. Vainio et al, 2018 (1). Heterobasidion Partitivirus 13 Mediates Severe Growth Debilitation and Major Alterations in the Gene Expression of a Fungal Forest Pathogen. J. Virology 92: e0l744-l7.  
 3. Vainio & Hantula, 2016. Taxonomy, biogeography and importance of Heterobasidion viruses. Virus Research, 219: 2-10.  
 4. Vainio et al., 2018 (2). ICTV Virus Taxonomy Profile: Partitiviridae. J Gen Virol 99: 17-18.  
 5. Vainio et al, 2015. Diagnosis and discovery of fungal viruses using deep sequencing of small RNAs. Journal of General Virology, 96: 714-725. 6. Jurvansuu et al., 2014. Partitiviruses of a fimgal forest pathogen have species-specific quantities of genome segments and transcripts. Virology 462-463: 25-33.  
 7. Kashif et al, 2015. Heterobasidion wood decay fungi host diverse and globally distributed viruses related to Helicobasidium mompa partitivirus V70. Virus Research 195: 119-123. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
