
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated soluble form of MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said isolated soluble O form of MN/CA IX antigen comprises at least one non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein, which is released from precancerous and/or cancerous cells of a 0 5 vertebrate into a body fluid. 
 
     
 2. A method of detecting or detecting and quantifying in a vertebrate body fluid soluble MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said soluble MN/CA IX antigen comprises at least one non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein, comprising the steps of: ,i contacting a sample of said body fluid with one or more MN/CA IX- to specific antibodies and/or with one or more MN/CA IX-specific antigen binding antibody Sfragments, wherein at least one of said MN/CA IX-specific antibodies or antibody fragments, specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein; and detecting or detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies and/or said one or more antibody fragments in said sample. 
 
     
 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the antibodies are monoclonal, and wherein one monoclonal antibody of said sandwich is specific for the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen, and wherein the other monoclonal antibody of said sandwich assay is directed to the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 
     
 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the antibody directed to the CA domain is the V/10 monoclonal antibody, which is secreted from the hybridoma cell line which is deposited under the Budapest Treaty at the International Depository Authority of the Belgian Coordinated Collection of Microorganisms (BCCM) at the Laboratorium voor Moleculaire Biologie-Plasmidencollectie (LMBP) at the Universeit Gent in Gent, Belgium, under Accession No. LMBP 6009CB, and wherein the antibody directed to the PG domain is the M75 monoclonal antibody, which is secreted from the hybridoma cell line VU-M75, which is deposited under the Budapest Treaty at the American Type Culture Collection under Accession No. HB 11128. 
 
     
 5. The method according to any one of claims 2 to 4, further comprising using antibodies and/or antibody fragments specific to the HER-2 ectodomain to detect, or to detect and quantify HER-2 ectodomain having a molecular weight of from about 97 to about 115 kilodaltons in said body fluid. O 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the body fluid is from a cancer patient, further comprising basing treatment modalities upon whether both soluble O MN/CA IX antigen and HER-2 ectodomain are present in said body fluid. 
 
     
 7. A monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IX-deficient mammal 0 5 wherein said antibody binds specifically to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX antigen. I 8. The monoclonal antibody of claim 7 which specifically binds the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 
     
 9. The monoclonal antibody of claim 7 which specifically binds to the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain of the MN/CA IX antigen. The monoclonal antibody of claim 8 which is produced by the hybridoma deposited at BCCM /LMBP under Accession No. LMBP 6009CB. 
 
     
 11. The hybridoma VU-V10 which produces the monoclonal antibody V/10 and which has been deposited at BCCM T /LMBP under Accession No. LMBP 6009CB. 
 
     
 12. A monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment that is specific to MN/CA IX antigen that is not directed to an immunodominant epitope of the MN/CA IX antigen. 
 
     
 13. A method of therapy for precancerous and/or cancerous disease, wherein said disease is associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, comprising the use of one or more monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments according to any one of claims 7, 8 and 12. 
 
     
 14. A method of therapy for precancerous and/or cancerous disease, comprising the use of a monoclonal antibody according to claim 7, administered in conjunction with one or more chemotherapeutic drugs, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, cytokines, antibodies directed to immunodominant epitopes of MN/CA IX antigen, antibodies to cancer-related antigens other than MN/CA IX antigen, and/or radiotherapy. A method of therapy for a cancer patient of claim 6, whose body fluids contain both detectable soluble MN/CA IX antigen and HER-2 ectodomain, comprising the use of a monoclonal antibody, wherein said antibody binds specifically to MN/CA IX antigen. 
 
     
 16. A method of therapy for a cancer patient of claim 6, whose body fluids contain both detectable soluble MN/CA IX antigen and HER-2 ectodomain, comprising the use of a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. 
 
     
 17. A method of gene therapy for a precancerous and/or cancerous disease, wherein said disease is associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, 0 comprising the use of the antibody of claim 8, coupled to a plasmid/vector for targeted delivery to a cell expressing MN/CA IX antigen. 0 18. An anti-idiotype antibody to an idiotype of the monoclonal antibody of claims 7 and 12. 
 
     
 19. A method of therapy for precancerous and/or cancerous disease, comprising the administration of the anti-idiotype antibody of claim 18 as a vaccine. A method of detecting deletion variants of MN/CA IX antigen, comprising N the use of a monoclonal antibody or monoclonal antibodies according to claims 7 and 12, and optionally a monoclonal antibody or monoclonal antibodies directed to an immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX antigen. S21. A hybridoma that secretes a monoclonal antibody according to any one of claims 7-9 and 12. 
 
     
 22. Use of one or more MN/CA IX-specific antibodies and/or one or more MN/CA IX-specific antigen binding antibody fragments in the preparation of a diagnostic or medicament for use in the diagnosis and/or prognosis for precancerous and/or cancerous disease associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, wherein at least one of said MN/CA IX-specific antibodies or antibody fragments specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein. 
 
     
 23. Use of a monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IX-deficient mammal in the preparation of a medicament for use in the treatment of precancerous and/or cancerous diseases associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen, wherein said MN/CA IX-specific antibody specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein. 
 
     
 24. Use of a monoclonal antibody generated from a MN/CA IX-deficient mammal which specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of MN/CA IX protein, coupled to a plasmid/vector in the preparation of a medicament for targeted delivery of gene therapy for a precancerous and/or cancerous disease associated with abnormal expression of MN/CA IX antigen. Use of an anti-idiotype antibody directed to an idiotype of an antibody which specifically binds to a non-immunodominant epitope of MN/CA IX protein in the preparation of a vaccine for the therapy of a precancerous and/or cancerous disease associated with the expression of MN/CA IX antigen. Dated 8 November, 2007 Institute of Virology Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person SPRUSON FERGUSON 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
