
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 
   
 1. A Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain producing glutathione with Accession 
 No. KCCM12568P. 
 
     
 2. The strain of claim 1, wherein the strain includes a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID 
 NO: 1 as an 18S rRNA sequence. 
 
     
 3. A method of producing glutathione, the method comprising the step of culturing the 
 strain of claim 1. 
 
     
 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of collecting glutathione from one 
 or more materials selected from the cultured strain, a dry product of the strain, an extract 
 of the strain, a culture of the strain, and a lysate of the strain. 
 
     
 5. A method of preparing a composition including glutathione, the method comprising 
 the steps of: 
 culturing the strain of claim 1; and 
 mixing an additive with one or more materials selected from the cultured strain, a 
 dry product of the strain, an extract of the strain, a culture of the strain, a lysate of the 
 strain, and glutathione collected therefrom. 
 
     
 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the additive includes an excipient or an emulsifier. 
 
     
 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the amount of one or more materials selected from the cultured strain, a dry product of the strain, an extract of the strain, a culture of the strain, a lysate of the strain, and glutathione collected therefrom is 3% by weight to 30% by weight, based on the total weight of the composition. 
 
     
 8. A composition for an antioxidant function, the composition comprising one or more 
 materials selected from the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of the 
 strain, a culture of the strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from any 
 one or more of the strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
     
 9. A composition for detoxification, the composition comprising one or more materials 
 selected from the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of the strain, a 
 culture of the strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from any one or 
 more of the strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
     
 10. A composition for immune enhancement, the composition comprising one or more 
 materials selected from the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of the 
 strain, a culture of the strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from any 
 one or more of the strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
     
 11. A composition for cosmetics, the composition comprising one or more materials 
 selected from the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of the strain, a 
 culture of the strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from any one or 
 more of the strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
     
 12. A composition for foods, the composition comprising one or more materials selected from the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of the strain, a culture of the strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from any one or more of the strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
     
 13. A composition for feeds, the composition comprising one or more materials selected 
 from the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of the strain, a culture of 
 the strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from any one or more of the 
 strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
     
 14. A composition for preparing a medical product which is used for preventing or 
 treating a disease caused by glutathione deficiency, the composition comprising one or 
 more materials selected from the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of 
 the strain, a culture of the strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from 
 any one or more of the strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
     
 15. A pharmaceutical composition for preventing or treating a disease caused by 
 glutathione deficiency, the composition comprising one or more materials selected from 
 the strain of claim 1; a dry product of the strain, an extract of the strain, a culture of the 
 strain, and a lysate of the strain; and glutathione collected from any one or more of the 
 strain, the dry product, the extract, the culture, and the lysate. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
