
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method for producing a high yield of xylitol, the method comprising inoculating and culturing a xylitol dehydrogenase-inactivated mutant of Candida tropicalis BS- xdhl in medium, wherein the culture is carried out in fully aerobic conditions without a separate process of controlling dissolved oxygen concentration to a low level of 0.5-2%. 
 
     
 2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the medium contains a biomass hydrolyzate as a substrate component. 
 
     
 3. The method of Claim 1, wherein the culture is performed through fed-batch culture using, as a feeding solution, a mixture of the biomass hydrolyzate and a carbon source. 
 
     
 4. The method of Claim 2 or 3, wherein the biomass hydrolyzate is a corncob hydrolyzate, a sugarcane bagasse hydrolyzate, a coconut byproduct or a hydrolyzate of Betula platyphylla var. japonica. 
 
     
 The method of Claim 3, wherein the carbon source is glycerol. 
 
     
 6. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the concentration of dissolved oxygen during the culture is higher than r 5 
 
     
 7. A arabinose reductase-inhibited mutant of Candida tropicalis ara-89 (KCTC 11136bp), selected from xylitol 0 dehydrogenase-inactivated mutant of Candida tropicalis BS- xdhl by treatment with methanesulfonic acid ethylester (EMS) through random mutagenesis. 
 
     
 8. A method of producing a high yield of xylitol using the Candida tropicalis mutant ara-89 (KCTC 11136bp) of Claim 7. 
 
     
 9. The method of Claim 8, which comprises culturing the mutant under fully aerobic conditions without a separate process of controlling dissolved oxygen concentration to a low level of in which the culture is carried out using a biomass hydrolyzate as a substrate. 
 
     
 The method of Claim 9, wherein the culture is performed through fed-batch culture using, as a feeding solution, a mixture of the biomass hydrolyzate and a carbon source. 
 
     
 11. The method of Claim 9 or 10, wherein the biomass hydrolyzate is a corncob hydrolyzate, a sugarcane bagasse hydrolyzate, a coconut byproduct or a hydrolyzate of Betula platyphylla var. japonica. 
 
     
 12. The method of Claim 10, wherein the carbon source is glycerol. 
 
     
 13. The method of any one of Claims 9 to 12, wherein the concentration of dissolved oxygen in the culture is higher than  
 
     
 14. A method for producing a high yield of xylitol being substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the above described examples and figures of the drawings. Xylitol produced according to a method set forth in any one of Claims 1 to 6 and 8 to 14. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
