
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS: 
 1. A biofumigant or biocidal composition including isoprene or an analogue thereof. 
 
     
 2. A biofumigant or biocidal composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition includes a further bioactive component selected from alcohols, ketones, aldehydes and monoterpenoids. 
 
     
 3. A biofumigant or biocidal composition according to claim 1, wherein the further bioactive component is selected from the group consisting of 2-methyl-1-butanol, 3-methyl2-butanone, n-butyl alcohol, acetaldehyde, linalool, sabinene and eucalyptol. 
 
     
 4. A biofumigant or biocidal composition according to claim 3, wherein the further bioactive component includes acetaldehyde, either alone, or in combination with, 2-methyl1-butanol. 
 
     
 5. A biofumigant or biocidal composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least one of the bioactive components is derived from an endophyte. 
 
     
 6. Use of a composition including isoprene or an analogue thereof in biofumigation or bioprotection. 
 
     
 7. Use according to claim 6, wherein the composition includes a further bioactive component selected from the group consisting of 2-methyl-1-butanol, 3-methyl-2-butanone, n-butyl alcohol, acetaldehyde, linalool, sabinene and eucalyptol. 
 
     
 8. Use according to claim 7, wherein the further bioactive component includes acetaldehyde, either alone, or in combination with 2-methyl-1-butanol. 
 
     
 9. A method for inhibiting an insect or a micro-organism including exposing the insect or micro-organism to a biocidal or biofumigant composition including isoprene or an analogue thereof. 
 
     
 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the biofumigant or biocidal composition includes a further bioactive component selected from the group consisting of 2-methyl-1WO 2018/141020 
 PCT/AU2018/050069 
 -32 butanol, 3-methyl-2-butanone, n-butyl alcohol, acetaldehyde, linalool, sabinene and eucalyptol. 
 
     
 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the further bioactive component includes acetaldehyde, either alone, or in combination with, 2-methyl-1 -butanol. 
 
     
 12. A method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the method includes inhibiting an insect which is a pest of stored grain. 
 
     
 13. A method according to claim 9, wherein the insect is of the species selected from one or more of Tribolium castaneum, Rhyzopertha dominica, Cryptolestes ferrugineus and Oryzaephilus suinamensis. 
 
     
 14. A method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the method includes inhibiting a micro-organism, and wherein the microorganism is a fungus selected from one or more of the genus Fusarium, Botrytis, Alternaria or Rhizoctonia, or a bacterium of the genus Pseudomonas. 
 
     
 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the microorganism is a fungus selected from one or more of Fusarium verticillioides, Botrytis cinerea, Alternaria alternata and Rhizoctonia cerealis. 
 
     
 16. A method according to any one of claims 9 to 15, wherein the method includes inhibiting a micro-organism, and wherein the microorganism is a bacterium of the species Pseudomonas syringae. 
 
     
 17. Use of a composition including isoprene or an analogue thereof as a biofumigant for the disinfestation of stored grain. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
