
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 The claims defining the invention are as follows: 
 1. An isolated strain of Bifidobacterium NCIMB 41676. 
 
     
 2. A Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in claim 1 in the form of viable cells. 
 
     
 3. A Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in claim 1 in the form of non-viable cells. 
 
     
 4. A Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the Bifidobacterium is isolated from colonic biopsy tissue from a healthy human subject. 
 
     
 5. A Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the strain is significantly immunomodulatory following oral consumption in humans. 
 
     
 6. A formulation which comprises a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5. 
 
     
 7. A formulation as claimed in claim 6 which further comprises a probiotic material. 
 
     
 8. A formulation as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 which further comprises a prebiotic material. 
 
     
 9. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 8 further comprising an ingestable carrier. 
 
     
 10. A formulation as claimed in claim 9 wherein the ingestable carrier is a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as a capsule, tablet or powder. 
 
     
 11. A formulation as claimed in claim 9 wherein the ingestable carrier is a food product such as acidified milk, yoghurt, frozen yoghurt, milk powder, milk concentrate, cheese spreads, dressings or beverages. 
 
     
 12. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 11 which further comprises a protein and/or peptide, a lipid, a carbohydrate, a vitamin, mineral and/or trace element. 
 
     
 13. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 12 wherein the Bifidobacterium strain is present in an amount of more than 106 cfu per gram of the formulation. 
 
     
 14. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 13 which further comprises an adjuvant. 
 
     
 15. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 14 which further comprises a bacterial component. 
 
     
 16. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 15 which further comprises a drug entity. 
 
     
 17. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 16 which further comprises a biological compound. 
 
     
 18. A formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 17 when used for immunisation and vaccination protocols. 
 
     
 19. A Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18 when used in foodstuffs. 
 
     
 20. A Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18 when used as a medicament. 
 
     
 21. A method of treatment and/or prophylaxis of undesirable inflammatory activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an therapeutically effective amount of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18. 
 
     
 22. A method for treatment and/or prophylaxis of undesirable gastrointestinal inflammatory activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any of claims 6 to 18. 
 
     
 23. A method for treatment and/or prophylaxis of undesirable gastrointestinal inflammatory activity, as claimed in claim 22; wherein the activity is inflammatory bowel disease. 
 
     
 24. A method according to claims 22 and 23 wherein the bowel disease is Crohns disease or ulcerative colitis, irritable bowel syndrome; pouchitis; or post infection colitis. 
 
     
 25. A method for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of diarrhoeal disease due to undesirable inflammatory activity or diarrhoeal disease due to an infectious agent comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an therapeutically effective amount of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18. 
 
     
 26. Use of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18 for the preparation of anti-inflammatory biotherapeutic agents for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of undesirable inflammatory activity. 
 
     
 27. The use as claimed in claim 26 wherein the anti-inflammatory biotherapeutic agents are a panel of biotherapeutic agents for modifying the levels of IL-10. 
 
     
 28. A Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the strain acts by antagonising and excluding proinflammatory micro-organisms from the gastrointestinal tract. 
 
     
 29. Use of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18 for the preparation of anti-inflammatory biotherapeutic agents for reducing the levels of pro inflammatory cytokines. 
 
     
 30. Use of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 as an antiinfective probiotic strain. 
 
     
 31. Use of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18 for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of obesity related inflammation. 
 
     
 32. Use of a Bifidobacterium strain as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 18 for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of obesity related metabolic dysregulation. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
