
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated DNA sequence that encodes a polypeptide with phospholipase activity wherein the DNA sequence is selected from a) DNA sequences that comprise a nucleic sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 1, b) DNA sequences that comprise the coding sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 1, c) DNA sequences that encode the protein sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 2, d) DNA sequences that are encoded by the plasmid B 11 B 1 Hind6 with the restriction map according to Figure 8 and deposited under accession number DSM 18369, e) DNA sequences that are related to the DNA sequences according to a), b), c) or d) due to the degeneracy of the genetic code, and f) complementary strands to the sequences according to a) to e).  
 
     
 2. The DNA sequence according to claim 1 wherein the sequence is derived from Aspergillus.  
 
     
 3. The DNA sequence according to claim 2 wherein the sequence is derived from Aspergillusfumigatus.  
 
     
 4. An isolated nucleic acid sequence that comprises an analogue of one of the sequences according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the sequence encodes a polypeptide with phospholipase activity and a) has at least 92% identity to one of these sequences or b) is a complementary strand to the sequences according to a) wherein the sequence may be obtained by substitution, deletion, insertion, addition or mutation of one or more nucleic acid(s) of the DNA sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 1.  
 
     
 5. An expression construct that comprises a sequence according to any one of claims 1 to 4 in operable linkage with one or more sequence(s) to control the expression of the polypeptide with phospholipase activity in an appropriate host cell, whereby the sequence to control the expression of the polypeptide is a promoter optionally selected from the glucoamylase promoter or the c-amylase promoter of the genus Aspergillus, the cellulase 8135469 62 (cellobiohydrolase) promoter of the genus Trichoderma, a promoter for an enzyme in the glycolytic metabolic pathway such as phosphoglycerate kinase or glycerol aldehyde-3 phosphate dehydrogenase, the xylanase promoter or the enolase promoter, and wherein said construct further comprises a secretory leader sequence.  
 
     
 6. A recombinant host cell comprising an expression construct according to claim 5.  
 
     
 7. The recombinant host cell according to claim 6 wherein it is derived from a fungus cell of the genus Aspergillus Rhizopus, Trichoderma, Neurospora, Mucor or Penicillium or a yeast cell of the genus Kluyveromyces, Saccharomyces, Schizosaccharomyces, Trichosporon, Schwanniomyces, Hansenula or Pichia.  
 
     
 8. A plasmid BllBlHind6 with the restriction map according to Figure 8 and deposited under accession number DSM 18369.  
 
     
 9. An isolated polypeptide with phospholipase activity selected from a) a polypeptide that is encoded by the coding part of a DNA sequence according to any one of claims 1 to 4, b) a polypeptide with a sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 2, c) a polypeptide with a sequence that has at least 95% identity to amino acids 33 to 633 of SEQ ID NO: 2.  
 
     
 10. The polypeptide with phospholipase activity according to claim 9, wherein said polypeptide - has a molecular weight in the range of 63 to 76 kDa and may also be present unglycosylated as fragments of 18.4 kDa and 46.6 kDa, - is capable of hydrolyzing at least one of the two fatty acids of lecithin, - shows no lipase activity, - has an increased thermostability, and - is capable of isolated from an organism of the genus Aspergillus.  
 
     
 11. The polypeptide according to claim 10 wherein it is capable of being isolated from Aspergillusfumigatus. 8135469 63  
 
     
 12. The polypeptide according to claim 11 wherein it is immunologically reactive with an antibody directed against the sequence SEQ ID NO: 2.  
 
     
 13. A phospholipase composition comprising a polypeptide according to any one of claims 9 to 12 together with additives, and optionally comprising one or more enzyme(s) for food or animal feed.  
 
     
 14. The use of a polypeptide according to any one of claims 9 to 12 or a phospholipase composition according to claim 13 for the degumming of vegetable oil, for the preparation of dough and/or bakery products, for the preparation of dairy products, as an additive to animal feed, or for the processing of textile raw materials.  
 
     
 15. The process for the production of a polypeptide with phospholipase activity according to any one of claims 9 to 12 wherein a host cell according to claim 6 or 7 is grown under conditions that support the expression of the polypeptide and subsequently the polypeptide is recovered.  
 
     
 16. A process for degumming of vegetable oil characterized in that a) the vegetable oil that is to be treated is optionally pre-treated, b) an aqueous solution containing a polypeptide according to any one of claims 9 to 12 or a phospholipase composition according to claim 13 is added to the thus optionally pre-treated oil, c) the reaction batch according to b) is heated to a temperature of between 300 and 70'C for I to 12 h, and d) the aqueous phase is separated from the oily phase. AB Enzymes GmbH Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person SPRUSON & FERGUSON 8135469 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
