
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
   
 Claim 1. A method of treating primary human tumor sites and metastatic sites, wherein said primary human tumor or metastasis expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a clone deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4890 or a CDMAB thereof, which is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said isolated monoclonal antibody or said CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
 Claim 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 Claim 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 Claim 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
     
 Claim 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
 Claim 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or 
 CDMAB thereof is humanized. 
 
     
 Claim 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or 
 CDMAB thereof is chimerized. 
 
     
 Claim 8. A method of treating primary human tumor sites and metastatic sites susceptible to antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said primary human tumor or metastasis expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a clone deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4890 or a CDMAB thereof, which is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said isolated monoclonal  antibody or said CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
 Claim 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 Claim 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 Claim 1 1. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
     
 Claim 12. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
 Claim 13. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof is humanized. 
 
     
 Claim 14. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof is chimerized. 
 
     
 Claim 15. A process for treating human cancerous tumors which express an epitope or epitopes of human CD63 antigen which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line 7BD-33-1 IA having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4890, comprising: administering to an individual suffering from said human cancer, at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line 7BD-33-1 1 A having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4890; wherein binding of said epitope or epitopes results in a reduction of tumor burden. 
 
     
 Claim 16. A process for treating human cancerous tumors which express an epitope or epitopes of human CD63 antigen which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line 7BD-33-1 IA having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4890, comprising: administering to an individual suffering from said human cancer, at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or  epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line 7BD-33-1 IA having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4890; wherein said administration results in a reduction of tumor burden. 
 
     
 Claim 17. A binding assay to determine a presence of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human cancerous tumor, which express an epitope or epitopes of human CD63 antigen which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line 7BD-33-1 IA having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4890, comprising: providing at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line 7BD-33-1 IA having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4890; contacting said at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof with said human tissue sample; and determining binding of said at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated. 
 
     
 Claim 18. The process of claim 1 , wherein said primary human tumor sites and/or metastatic sites arise from hepatocytes. 
 
     
 Claim 19. The process of claim 8, wherein said primary human tumor sites and/or metastatic sites arise from hepatocytes. 
 
     
 Claim 20. The process of claim 15, wherein said human cancerous tumor arises from hepatocytes. 
 
     
 Claim 21. The process of claim 16, wherein said human cancerous tumor arises from hepatocytes. 
 
     
 Claim 22. The process of claim 17, wherein said human cancerous tumor arises from hepatocytes.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
