
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated recombinant bacterium that produces monophosphoryl lipid A (MLA) not conjugated to a 2-keto-3-deoxy-D-manno-octulosonate (Kdo) moiety, comprising a genetic modification that increases expression of a gene encoding LpxE polypeptide as compared to a parent bacterial cell and a genetic modification that increases expression of a gene encoding LpxL polypeptide, a gene encoding LpxM polypeptide, or a combination thereof as compared to a parent bacterial cell. 
 
     
 2. The bacterium of claim 1, wherein the MLA comprises from 2 acyl chains to 7 acyl chains. 
 
     
 3. The bacterium of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the bacterium comprises at least one of an exogenous polynucleotide encoding LpxE polypeptide. 
 
     
 4. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the MLA comprises 1-dephospholipid A, 1-dephospho-tetra-acylated lipid A, 1-dephospho-penta-acylated lipid A, or a combination thereof. 
 
     
 5. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the bacterium comprises at least one of an exogenous polynucleotide encoding LpxL polypeptide, a gene encoding LpxM polypeptide, or a combination thereof. 
 
     
 6. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the LpxE polypeptide belongs to EC 3.1.3.-. 
 
     
 7. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the LpxE polypeptide is a polypeptide having about 90% or more sequence identity to an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9 or SEQ ID NO: 17. 
 
     
 8. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the LpxL polypeptide belongs to EC 2.3.1.241 and the LpxM polypeptide belongs to EC 2.3.1.243. 
 2016385281 30 Apr 2020 
 
     
 9. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the LpxL polypeptide is a polypeptide having about 90% or more sequence identity to an amino acid sequence of 
 SEQ ID NO: 1 and the LpxM polypeptide is a polypeptide having about 90% or more sequence identity to an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5. 
 
     
 10. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the bacterium is a Gram-negative bacterium. 
 
     
 11. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the bacterium is selected from the group consisting of Escherichia genus bacterium, Shigella genus bacterium, Salmonella genus bacterium, Campylobacter genus bacterium, Neisseria genus bacterium, Haemophilus genus bacterium, Aeromonas genus bacterium, Francisella genus bacterium, Yersinia genus bacterium, Klebsiella genus bacterium, Bordetella genus bacterium, Legionella genus bacterium, Corynebacterium genus bacterium, Citrobacter genus bacterium, Chlamydia genus bacterium, Brucella genus bacterium, Pseudomonas genus bacterium, Helicobacter genus bacterium, Burkholderia genus bacterium, Agrobacterium genus bacterium, Chlorobium genus bacterium, Rhodospirillum genus bacterium, Magnetospirillum genus bacterium, Chlorobaculum genus bacterium, 
 Pelodictyon genus bacterium, Pseudovibro genus bacterium, Phaeospirillum genus bacterium, Syntrophobacter genus bacterium, Bradyrhizobium genus bacterium, 
 Porphyromonas genus bacterium, Rhizobium genus bacterium, Mesorhizobium genus bacterium, Vibrio genus bacterium, Ralstonia genus bacterium, Limnohabitans genus bacterium, and Thermodesulfobacterium genus bacterium. 
 
     
 12. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the bacterium further comprises a genetic modification that decreases expression of polynucleotide that encodes a polypeptide involved in Kdo biosynthetic pathway. 
 
     
 13. The bacterium of claim 12, wherein the polypeptide involved in Kdo biosynthetic pathway is a polypeptide selected from a group consisting of KdtA, KdsB, KdsC, KdsA, GutQ, KpsF, KpsU and KdsD. 
 
     
 14. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-13, in which at least one of the following genes is disrupted: a gene encoding KdtA polypeptide, a gene encoding KdsB polypeptide, a gene encoding KdsC polypeptide, a gene encoding KdsA polypeptide, a 
 2016385281 30 Apr 2020 gene encoding GutQ polypeptide, a gene encoding KpsF polypeptide, a gene encoding KpsU polypeptide, a gene encoding KdsD polypeptide, or a combination thereof. 
 
     
 15. The bacterium of any one of claims 1-14, in which at least one of the following genes is disrupted: a gene encoding LpxT polypeptide, a gene encoding PagP polypeptide, a gene encoding KdtA polypeptide, or a combination thereof. 
 
     
 16. A method of producing MLA, the method comprising: 
 culturing the bacterium of claim 1 to obtain a culture; and isolating MLA from the culture. 
 
     
 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the isolating comprises isolating MLA from the bacterial cell. 
 
     
 18. The method of claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the culturing comprises culturing in batch, fed-batch, or continuous mode. 
 
     
 19. The method of any one of claims 16-18, wherein the MLA comprises 1-dephospholipid A, 1-dephospho-penta-acylated lipid A, 1-dephospho-tetra-acylated lipid A, or a combination thereof. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
