
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 2. A recombinant poxvirus comprising at least two homologous foreign genes, said genes having a homology of at least 0 3. The recombinant poxvirus according to claim I or 2, wherein the genes have a (cN 0 homology of 65-75%. (NI 
 
     
 4. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the genes are derived from a flavivirus. The recombinant poxvirus according to claim 4, wherein the flavivirus is a Dengue virus. 
 
     
 6. The recombinant poxvirus according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the genes are at least two homologous genes derived from at least two different serotypes of the virus. 
 
     
 7. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein the genes are at least two PrM genes. 
 
     
 8. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the genes are 4 PrM genes. 
 
     
 9. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the poxvirus is a Vaccinia virus. The recombinant poxvirus according to claim 9, wherein the Vaccinia virus is a Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) virus. 
 
     
 11. The recombinant poxvirus according claim 10, wherein the MVA is MVA-BN deposited at the European Collection of Animal Cell Cultures (ECACC) under number V00083008. -67- 00  
 
     
 12. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims I to 11, wherein the poxvirus is replication deficient or replication incompetent in mammalian cells, including U human cells. 
 
     
 13. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the genes are inserted into a naturally occurring deletion site and/or into an intergenic region Sof the poxviral genome. 
 
     
 14. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 to 13 as medicament N or vaccine. N, 15. A vaccine comprising the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of the claims 1 to 13. 
 
     
 16. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of the claims 1 to 13 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, adjuvant and/or additive. 
 
     
 17. The recombinant poxvirus according to any one of the claims 1 to 13, the vaccine according to claim 15 or the composition according to claim 16 for affecting, preferably inducing, an immune response of a living animal, including a human. 
 
     
 18. Use of the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of the claims 1 to 13 for the preparation of a medicament. 
 
     
 19. A method for affecting, preferably inducing, an immune response in a living animal, including a human, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of the claims 1 to 13, the vaccine according to claim 15 or the composition according to claim 16 to the animal or human to be treated. A cell comprising the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 to 13. -68- 00 0 21. A method for producing a recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 CN to 13 comprising the steps of: infecting a cell with a poxvirus; S- transfecting the infected cell with a first vector construct comprising a gene being heterologous to the poxviral genome, and a genomic poxvirus sequence O capable of directing the integration of the heterologous gene into an insertion 0 site of the poxviral genome; C- identifying, isolating and, optionally, purifying the generated recombinant C poxvirus; -repeating the above steps by using the recombinant poxvirus obtained from previous steps for infecting the cell and an additional vector construct comprising a further gene being heterologous to the poxviral genome and homologous to the gene of the first vector construct. 
 
     
 22. A kit comprising: two or more vector constructs, each construct comprising a gene under transcriptional control of a poxviral expression control element, wherein the genes included in the different vectors are homologous genes in comparison to each other with a homology of at least 50%, and wherein each gene is flanked by a poxviral DNA sequence capable of directing the integration of the gene into a poxviral genome, and means for identifying and/or selecting recombinant poxviruses, which have incorporated said homologous genes into their genome. 
 
     
 23. The kit according to claim 22, wherein each homologous gene is flanked by a poxviral DNA sequence capable of directing the integration of said homologous gene of each vector construct into a different insertion site of the poxviral genome. 
 
     
 24. A DNA sequence derived from or homologous to the recombinant poxviral genome of the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein said -69- 00 DNA sequence comprises at least two homologous genes in comparison to each other and at least part of the sequences of the poxviral genome. A method for detecting cells infected with the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 1 to 13, said method comprising administering the DNA sequence according to claim 24 to said cells. INO 
 
     
 26. A method for identifying the recombinant poxvirus according to claims Ito 13, INO O said method comprising administering the DNA sequence according to claim 24 to said ¢€3 1 virus. 
 
     
 27. A method for detecting a cell infected with a recombinant poxvirus according to claims 1 to 13, said method comprising contacting the cell with DNA primers selectively amplifying the homologous genes and/or flanking sequence related to the insertion sites of the genes. 
 
     
 28. A method for identifying a recombinant poxvirus according to claims 1 to 13 in a cell, said method comprising contacting the cell with DNA primers selectively amplifying the homologous genes and/or flanking sequence related to the insertion sites of the genes. 
 
     
 29. A recombinant poxvirus substantially as hereinbefore described. A vaccine or pharmaceutical composition including a recombinant poxvirus according to claim 29. 
 
     
 31. A method for affecting, preferably inducing, an immune response in a living animal, including a human, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a recombinant poxvirus according to claim 29 or a vaccine or pharmaceutical composition according to claim 30 to the animal, including a human. 
 
     
 32. A method of treatment and/or prophylaxis of a Dengue virus infection in an animal, including a human, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 4 to 8 to the animal, including a human. 00 
 
     
 33. A method according to claim 32, wherein the recombinant poxvirus is included in C a vaccine or pharmaceutical composition. U 
 
     
 34. A method of treatment and/or prophylaxis of a virus infection in an animal, including a human, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the recombinant poxvirus according to any one of claims 9 to 11 to the animal, including a Shuman. A method according to claim 34, wherein the recombinant poxvirus is included in N^ a vaccine or pharmaceutical composition. CI 36. A method for producing a recombinant poxvirus according to claim 1 substantially as hereinbefore described. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
