
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method for selecting a lactic acid bacterial strain for prophylaxis and/or treatment of atherosclerosis or other cardiovascular disease in a mammal comprising 5 the steps of: - Culturing cells of a lactic acid bacterial strain; - Evaluating TNF-alpha lowering capacity of the strain and evaluating extracellular bile salt hydrolase (BSH) activity of the strain; and - Selecting the strain having simultaneous capability of both: 10 i) increasing BSH-activity and consequently lowering serum LDL cholesterol; and ii) decreasing TNF-alpha levels.  
 
     
 2. A method for producing a lactic acid bacterial strain for prophylaxis and/or 15 treatment of atherosclerosis or other cardiovascular disease in a mammal comprising the steps of: - Culturing cells of a lactic acid bacterial strain; - Evaluating TNF-alpha lowering capacity of the strain and evaluating extracellular bile salt hydrolase (BSH) activity of the strain; 20 - Selecting the strain having the simultaneous capability of both: i) increasing BSH-activity and consequently lowering serum LDL cholesterol; and ii) decreasing TNF-alpha levels; and - Producing the selected lactic acid bacterial strain. 25  
 
     
 3. An atherosclerosis-associated inflammation-reducing composition derived from a lactic acid bacterial strain selected by the method of claim I or derived from a lactic acid bacterial strain produced by the method of claim 2. 30 
 
     
 4. The composition of claim 3 comprising a cell-free culture supernatant.  
 
     
 5. The composition of claim 3 comprising a component derived from a cell-free culture supernatant. 35 
 
     
 6. The composition of claim 3 comprising cells of a lactic acid bacterial strain. 2095646_1 (GHMatters) 21/10/09 26  
 
     
 7. A food composition comprising an ingestible support and the composition of any one of claims 3 to 6.  
 
     
 8. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutical carrier and the 5 composition of any one of claims 3 to 6.  
 
     
 9. A nutritional supplement comprising an ingestible support and the composition of any one of claims 3 to 6. 
 
     
 10 10. An agent for prophylaxis and/or treatment of atherosclerosis or other cardiovascular disease comprising the composition of any one of claims 3 to 6.  
 
     
 11. A product comprising cells of a lactic acid bacterial strain selected by the method of claim I or produced by the method of claim 2. 15  
 
     
 12. A method for prophylaxis and/or treatment of atherosclerosis or other cardiovascular disease comprising the step of administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of cells of a lactic acid bacterial strain selected by the method of claim I or produced by the method of claim 2, or a therapeutically effective 20 amount of the composition of any one of claims 3 to 8.  
 
     
 13. Use of cells of a lactic acid bacterial strain selected by the method of claim I or produced by the method of claim 2, in the manufacture of a medicament for prophylaxis and/or treatment of atherosclerosis or other cardiovascular disease. 25  
 
     
 14. A method according to any one of claims 1, 2 or 12, an atherosclerosis associated inflammation-reducing composition according to claim 3, a food composition according to claim 7, a pharmaceutical composition according to claim 8, a nutritional supplement according to claim 9, an agent according to claim 10, a product 30 according to claim 11, or use according to claim 13, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one of the examples or figure. 2095646_1 (GHMatters) 21/10/09 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
