
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A protein variant having an activity of exporting 5'-inosine monophosphate, wherein the protein variant consists of an amino acid sequence, which comprises, from the N-terminus in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, a substitution of the 123 rd  amino acid with cysteine, a substitution of the 243 rd  amino acid with valine, a substitution of the 387 th  amino acid with threonine, a substitution of the 405 th  amino acid with tyrosine; a substitution of the 413 th  amino acid with threonine, a substitution of the 458 th  amino acid with lysine, or a combination thereof. 
 
     
 [Claim 2] 
 The protein variant according to claim 1, wherein the protein variant consists of an amino acid sequence, which further comprises, from the N-terminus in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, a substitution of the 2 nd  amino acid with another amino acid, a substitution of the 64 th  amino acid with another amino acid, or a combination thereof. 
 
     
 [Claim 3] 
 A polynucleotide encoding the protein variant according to claim 1. 
 
     
 [Claim 4] 
 A vector comprising the polynucleotide according to claim 3. 
 
     
 [Claim 5] 
 A microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium producing 5'-inosine monophosphate, comprising the protein variant of claim 1, polynucleotide of claim 3, or vector of claim 4. 
 
     
 [Claim 6] 
 The microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium according to claim 5, wherein the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium is Corynebacterium stationis. 
 
     
 [Claim 7] 
 The microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium according to claim 5, wherein an activity of adenylosuccinate synthetase or 5'-inosine monophosphate (IMP) dehydrogenase is further attenuated. 
 
     
 [Claim 8] 
 A method for preparing 5'-inosine monophosphate, comprising culturing the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium of claim 5 in a medium. 
 
     
 [Claim 9] 
 The method according to claim 8, wherein the method further comprises recovering 5'-inosine monophosphate from the microorganism or medium. 
 
     
 [Claim 10] 
 The method according to claim 8, wherein the microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium is Corynebacterium stationis. 
 
     
 [Claim 11] 
 Use of the protein variant of claim 1 for increasing production of 5'-inosine monophosphate in a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium. 
 
     
 [Claim 12] 
 A method for increasing export of 5'-inosine monophosphate, comprising enhancing an activity of the protein consisting of SEQ ID NO: 2 in a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium. 
 
     
 [Claim 13] 
 Use of the protein variant of claim 1 for increasing export of 5'-inosine monophosphate in a microorganism of the genus Corynebacterium. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
