
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  WE CLAIM:  
   
 1. An oral probiotic composition comprising Rouxiella sp..  
 
     
 2. The oral probiotic composition of claim 1 , wherein Rouxiella sp. is Rouxiella badensis optionally Rouxiella badensis acadiensis.  
 
     
 3. The probiotic composition of claim 1 or 2, wherein the composition is formulated as a capsule, a tablet or powder.  
 
     
 4. The probiotic composition of any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising a carrier.  
 
     
 5. The probiotic composition of claim 4, wherein the carrier is a food product.  
 
     
 6. The probiotic composition of claim 4, formulated as a food additive.  
 
     
 7. The probiotic composition of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising lactic acid bacteria.  
 
     
 8. The probiotic composition of claim 5, wherein the lactic acid bacteria is selected from the group consisting of Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, Streptococcus and Lactococcus or combinations thereof.  
 
     
 9. The probiotic composition of any one of claims 1 to 8, further comprising a yeast probiotic.  
 
     
 10. A food product comprising an effective amount of a probiotic bacteria of the genus Rouxiella.  
 
     
 11. The food product of claim 10, wherein Rouxiella sp. is Rouxiella badensis, optionally Rouxiella badensis acadiensis.  
 
     
 12. The food product of claim 10 or 11 , further comprising lactic acid bacteria the food product of claim 9, wherein the probiotic bacteria are live. 

 
 
     
 13. A method of promoting gut mucosal immunity in a mammal, the method comprising orally administering an isolated Rouxiella sp., the probiotic composition of any one of claims 1-9 or the food product of any one of claims 10 - 12.  
 
     
 14. A method of restoring and/or increasing the intestinal epithelial barrier, the method comprising orally administering an isolated Rouxiella sp. or the probiotic composition of any one of claims 1-9.  
 
     
 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the method comprises orally administering the isolated Rouxiella sp. or the probiotic composition daily for at least 7 days, at least 14 days, at least 21 days, at least 28 days or at least 90 days.  
 
     
 16. The method of claim 14 or 15, wherein the method increases number of Goblet and/or Paneth cells in the small intestine epithelium.  
 
     
 17. A method of protecting against Salmonella infection, the method comprising orally administering an isolated Rouxiella sp. or the probiotic composition of any one of claims 1-9.  
 
     
 18. The method of claim 17, wherein Rouxiella sp. is Rouxiella badensis, optionally Rouxiella badensis acadiensis.  
 
     
 19. The method of claim 17 or 18, wherein the method comprises orally administering the isolated Rouxiella sp. or the probiotic composition daily for at least 7 days, at least 14 days, at least 21 days, at least 28 days or at least 90 days. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
