
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method for recovering and purifying recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEpo) from a cell culture medium comprising host cells, which method comprises the steps of: (a) removing host cells, cellular constituents and debris from the cell culture medium by performing a procedure selected from the group consisting of (i) centrifugation followed by a depth filtration step, (ii) a depth filtration step, and (iii) centrifugation, to obtain a clarified culture medium supernatant; (b) adjusting the conductivity of the supernatant to 5 mS/cm or less, and a pH of between about 7.0 and 8.0; (c) applying the supernatant from step (b) to a column comprising an anion exchange chromatographic medium, washing the column, eluting the rhEpo from the column, and collecting the peak fraction(s) that contain rhEpo; (d) subjecting the combined peak fractions from step (c) to a reverse phase chromatography step using a resin that can be run under medium pressure (< 10 bar) and is resistant to high concentrations of NaOH, the rhEpo being eluted using a linear gradient of an organic solvent; (e) applying one or more fractions eluted in step (d) which contain rhEpo to a column comprising anion exchange chromatographic media, washing the column, and eluting the rhEpo using a linear salt gradient; (f) selecting one or more fractions eluted in step (e) which contain rhEpo based on degree of sialylation of the rhEpo; and (g) subjecting one or more fractions eluted in step (f) which contain rhEpo by one or more size exclusion chromatographic steps using a gel filtration medium to remove potential dimers and higher aggregates; and collecting the eluate containing rhEpo.  
 
     
 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the centrifugation in step (a) is performed using a disc stack separator.  
 
     
 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising, between step (d) and step (e), the additional step of: selecting one or more fractions eluted in step (d) which contain rhEpo based on degree of sialylation of the rhEpo. WO 03/045996 PCT/EPO2/13299 52  
 
     
 4. The method of claim 1 wherein prior to step (d), the peak fractions from step (c) are subjected to an ammonium sulfate precipitation step to precipitate contaminating host cell proteins, the ammonium sulfate concentration of the supernatant then being adjusted to a concentration compatible with step (d).  
 
     
 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said concentration is less than 0.24 M ammonium sulfate.  
 
     
 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the pH in step (b) is about pH 7.5.  
 
     
 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the elution step in step (c) is performed using a buffer having a salt concentration of greater than 125 mM.  
 
     
 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the organic solvent in step (d) is selected from the group consisting of acetonitrile, ethanol and hexylene glycol.  
 
     
 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the Epo polypeptide in step (d) is eluted employing a linear gradient of the organic solvent of from about 10% to aboutl00%.  
 
     
 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the organic solvent in step (d) is acetonitrile and the Epo polypeptide is eluted employing a gradient of from about 25% to about 50%.  
 
     
 11. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to step (e) the fractions eluted in step (d) are diluted with an appropriate aqueous buffer.  
 
     
 12. The method of claim 11, wherein prior to step (e) the diluted fractions are left for an appropriate amount of time sufficient as to inactivate viral contaminants.  
 
     
 13. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (g), the fractions are subjected to an ultra filtration step prior to the size exclusion chromatography step.  
 
     
 14. The method of claim 1 or claim 4, wherein in step (d) the fractions are subjected to an ultrafiltration step prior to reverse phase chromatography. WO 03/045996 PCT/EPO2/13299 53  
 
     
 15. The method of claim 4, wherein the combined peak fractions from step (c) are subjected to an ultrafiltration step prior to the ammonium sulfate precipitation step.  
 
     
 16. The method of claim 1 which further comprises a dead-end nano-filtration step to remove viruses before or after step (g).  
 
     
 17. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (a) any of the procedures (i), (ii) or (iii) is followed by a 0.2 pm filtration step.  
 
     
 18. The method of claim 1 or 3, wherein one or more of the selection procedure in step (f) or between step (d) and step (e) is performed by using capillary zone electrophoresis.  
 
     
 19. A method for recovering and purifying recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEpo) from a cell culture medium comprising host cells, which method comprises the steps of: (a) removing host cells, cellular constituents and debris from the cell culture medium by performing a procedure selected from the group consisting of (i) centrifugation followed by a depth filtration step, (ii) a depth filtration step, and (iii) centrifugation, wherein the centrifugation is performed using a disc stack separator, to obtain a clarified culture medium supernatant; (b) adjusting the conductivity of the supernatant to 5 mS/cm or less, and a pH of between about 7.0 and 8.0; (c) applying the supernatant from step (b) to a column comprising Q-HyperD F (BioSepra) anion exchange chromatographic media, washing the column, eluting the rhEpo from the column, and collecting the peak fraction(s) that contain rhEpo; (d) subjecting the combined peak fractions from step (c) to a reverse phase chromatography step using a polystyrene resin that can be run under medium pressure (< 10 bar) and is resistant to high concentrations of NaOH, such as Source 30RPC (Amersham Biosciences), the rhEpo being eluted using a linear gradient of acetonitrile; (e) selecting one or more fractions eluted in step (d) which contain rhEpo based on degree of sialylation of the rhEpo, applying said fractions to a column comprising Q Seph HP (Amersham Biosciences) anion exchange chromatographic media, washing the column, and eluting the rhEpo using a linear salt gradient; and WO 03/045996 PCT/EPO2/13299 54 (f) selecting one or more fractions eluted in step (e) which contain rhEpo based on degree of sialylation of the rhEpo, subjecting said fractions to size exclusion chromatography using Superdex 75 prep grade (Amersham Biosciences) to remove potential dimers and higher aggregates; and collecting the eluate containing rhEpo.  
 
     
 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the one or more fractions are selected in step (e) and/or step (f) by capillary zone electrophoresis.  
 
     
 21. The method of claim 20 wherein prior to step (d), the combined peak fractions from step (c) are subjected to an ammonium sulfate precipitation step to precipitate contaminating host cell proteins, the ammonium sulfate concentration of the supematant then being adjusted to a concentration compatible with step (d).  
 
     
 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said concentration is less than 0.24 M ammonium sulfate.  
 
     
 23. The method of claim 19 which further comprises a dead-end nano-filtration step to remove viruses before or after step (f).  
 
     
 24. The method of claim 19 wherein the culture medium is serum-free and the host cells have been cultured using a discontinuous fed batch fermentation process.  
 
     
 25. A method for the production of a defined isoform composition of a glycosylated protein or polypeptide, said method comprising analyzing samples comprising one or more isoforms of a glycosylated protein or polypeptide using CZE.  
 
     
 26. The method according to claim 25, wherein said isoforms of the glycosylated protein or polypeptide are isoforms of recombinant human erythropoietin. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
