
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims  
   
 A composition comprising an effective amount of galactooligosaccharides and a probiotic bacteria comprising the galCDEGR(A) operon, wherein said probiotic bacteria is obtained by a process comprising the steps of  
  a. fermenting the probiotic bacteria in a bacterial growth medium comprising galacto-oligosaccharides and peptone; and  
  b. harvesting the cultured probiotic bacteria.  
 
     
 A composition according to claim 1 , wherein the probiotic bacteria is of the Bifidobacterium or of the Lactabacillus genus.  
 
     
 A composition according to claim 2, wherein the probiotic bacteria is selected from Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis, Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium breve and Lactobacillus johnsonii.  
 
     
 A composition according to claim 2, wherein the probiotic bacteria is selected from Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis, Bifidobacterium longum and Bifidobacterium breve.  
 
     
 A composition according to claim 3, wherein the probiotic bacteria is selected from Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis deposited as CNCM I-3446, Bifidobacterium longum deposited as ATCC BAA-999, Bifidobacterium longum deposited as ATCC 15707, Bifidobacterium longum deposited as CNCM I-5259, Bifidobacterium breve deposited as CNCM 1-3914 and Lactobacillus johnsonii deposited as CNCM 1-1225.  
 
     
 A composition according to claim 4, wherein the probiotic bacteria is selected from Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis deposited as CNCM I-3446, Bifidobacterium longum deposited as ATCC BAA-999, Bifidobacterium longum deposited as ATCC 15707, Bifidobacterium longum deposited as CNCM I-5259 and Bifidobacterium breve deposited as CNCM 1-3914.  
 
     
 A composition according to any one of the preceding claims comprising at least 0.2% of galacto-oligosaccharides, based on dry matter. 

 
 
     
 8. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the probiotic bacteria is present in an amount of at least 5E+05 cfu/g.  
 
     
 9. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the composition is selected from a food product, a beverage, an animal feed product, a nutritional supplement for human or animal, a pharmaceutical composition and a cosmetic composition.  
 
     
 10. A composition according to claim 9, which is a nutritional composition selected from infant formula, infant cereals, follow-up formula, growing-up milks, functional milks and milk products for pregnant and lactating women or for women desiring to get pregnant.  
 
     
 1 1 . A probiotic bacteria comprising the galCDEGR(A) operon obtained by a process comprising the steps of  
  a. fermenting the probiotic bacteria in a bacterial growth medium comprising galacto-oligosaccharides and peptone; and  
  b. harvesting the cultured probiotic bacteria;  
  or a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 10,  
  for use in therapy.  
 
     
 12. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of modulating immune response in a subject.  
 
     
 13. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of boosting the immune defences of a subject.  
 
     
 14. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of preventing, treating or reducing infections in a subject.  
 
     
 15. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of preventing, treating or reducing inflammation in a subject.  
 
     
 16. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of promoting healthy microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject. 

 
 
     
 17. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of increasing the production of total short chain fatty acids in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject.  
 
     
 18. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of increasing the production of acetate in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject.  
 
     
 19. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of increasing the production of lactic acid in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject.  
 
     
 20. A probiotic bacteria or composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of reducing the production of ammonium in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject.  
 
     
 21 . A probiotic bacteria or a composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of improving the activity of the microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject, preferably the metabolic activity of the microbiota, preferably in the gastrointestinal tract of an infant or young child.  
 
     
 22. A probiotic bacteria or a composition according to claim 1 1 , for use in a method of preventing allergic reactions in a subject.  
 
     
 23. A process for increasing the therapeutic effect of a composition comprising galactooligosaccharides and a probiotic bacteria comprising the galCDEGR(A) operon, comprising  
  a. fermenting the probiotic bacteria in a bacterial growth medium comprising galacto-oligosaccharides and peptone; and  
  b. harvesting the cultured probiotic bacteria,  
  before incorporating the probiotic bacteria into the composition.  
 
     
 24. A process according to claim 18, wherein the therapeutic effect is an effect to modulate the immune defences of a subject, to boost the immune defences of a subject, to prevent, treat or reduce infections in a subject or to prevent, treat or reduce inflammation in a subject, to prevent allergic reactions in a subject or to promote healthy microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject, to increase total short chain fatty acid production in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject, to increase acetate production in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject, to increase the production of lactic acid in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject or to improve 

 the activity of the microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject, preferably the metabolic activity of the microbiota, preferably in the gastrointestinal tract of an infant or young child.  
 
     
 25. A method for increasing the ability of a probiotic bacteria comprising the galCDEGR(A) operon to consume GOS, comprising  
  a. fermenting the probiotic bacteria in a bacterial growth medium comprising galacto-oligosaccharides and peptone; and  
  b. harvesting the cultured probiotic bacteria. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
