
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
   
 Claim 1. A monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by the clone deposited with the ATCC as PTA -4890 to its target antigen. 
 
     
 Claim 2. The antibody or ligand of claim 1, which is humanized. 
 
     
 Claim 3. The antibody or ligand of claim 1, which is chimerized. 
 
     
 Claim 4. A method for initiating antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human breast or prostate tumor comprising: providing a monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand in accordance with any one of claim 1 or 2 or 3, and contacting said monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand with said tissue sample. 
 
     
 Claim 5. The monoclonal antibody or ligand of any one of claims 1, 2 or 3 conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells. 
 
     
 Claim 6. A method of treating human breast and prostate tumors susceptible to antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human breast and prostate tumors express an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4890 or a cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand thereof, comprising administering to said mammal a monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand in accordance with any one of claim 1 or 2 or 3, in an amount effective to induce cellular cytotoxicity and thereby reduce said mammal's tumor burden.   
 
     
 Claim 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said monoclonal antibody or ligand is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 Claim 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 Claim 9. The method of claim 6 wherein said monoclonal antibody or ligand activates complement. 
 
     
 Claim 10. The method of claim 6 wherein said monoclonal antibody or ligand mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
 Claim 1 1. A monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by the clone deposited with the ATCC as PTA-4889 to its target antigen. 
 
     
 Claim 12. The antibody or ligand of claim 1 1, which is humanized. 
 
     
 Claim 13. The antibody or ligand of claim 11, which is chimerized. 
 
     
 Claim 14. A method for initiating antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human breast or prostate tumor comprising: providing a monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand in accordance with any one of claim 1 1 or 12 or 13, and contacting said monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand with said tissue sample. 
 
     
 Claim 15. The monoclonal antibody or ligand of any one of claims 1 1, 12 or 13 conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells.   
 
     
 Claim 16. A method of treating human breast and prostate tumors susceptible to antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human breast and prostate tumors express an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4889 or a cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand thereof, comprising administering to said mammal a monoclonal antibody or cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligand in accordance with any one of claim 1 1 or 12 or 13, in an amount effective to induce cellular cytotoxicity and thereby reduce said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
 Claim 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said monoclonal antibody or ligand is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 Claim 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 Claim 19. The method of claim 16 wherein said monoclonal antibody or ligand activates complement. 
 
     
 Claim 20. The method of claim 16 wherein said monoclonal antibody or ligand mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
