
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence free from association with other viral nucleotide sequences with which it is associated in nature. 
 
     
 2. The sequence according to claim 1 being any one or more of a spheroidin gene coding sequence, a spheroidin gene regulatory sequence, a spheroidin gene promoter sequence, an allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence. 
 
     
 3. The sequence according to claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide sequence is a DNA sequence. 
 
     
 4. The sequence according to claim 1, wherein said sequence is derived from the Amsacta moorei Entomopoxvirus. The sequence according to claim 4 being any one of the sequence SEQ ID NO:1 spanning nucleotide #1 through #6768 of Fig. 2, the sequence spanning nucleotide SEQ ID NO:21 #3080 through #6091 of Fig. 2, an allelic variant, analog or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence. 
 
     
 6. The sequence according to any one of the preceding claims characterized by the ability to direct the expression of a heterologous gene to which said sequence or fragment is operably linked in a selected host cell. 
 
     
 7. A polynucleotide sequence comprising a first polynucleotide sequence comprising an Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, an allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, associated with a second polynucleotide sequence encoding a heterologous gene. 
 
     
 8. An Entomopoxvirus spheroidin polypeptide, an analog or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence. i 9. The polypeptide according to claim 8, fused to a heterologous protein or S peptide. S 30 10. A recombinant polynucleotide molecule comprising a polynucleotide sequence encoding the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin promoter sequence, an allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, wherein said promoter sequence is operably linked to a selected heterologous gene sequence, said promoter sequence being capable of directing the replication and expression of said gene in a selected host cell or virus. 
 
     
 11. A recombinant molecule comprising a polynucleotide sequence encoding the Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene, an allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, linked in frame to a polynucleotide sequence encoding a selected heterologous gene sequence. (N:\LIBAAI00272:LMM I 89 
 
     
 12. A recombinant molecule comprising an Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, in allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, into which a heterologous gene sequence has been inserted. 
 
     
 13. A recombinant virus comprising a polynucleotide sequence comprising an Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, an allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, optionally linked to a selected heterolcgous gene sequence. 
 
     
 14. The virus according to claim 13, which is a poxvirus selected from the group consisting of a vertebrate poxvirus, orthopoxvirus, suipoxvirus, vaccinia virus and entomopoxvirus. A cell infected with a recombinant virus comprising an Entomopoxvirus spheriodin gene polynucleotide sequence, an allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, optionally linked to a selected heterologous gene sequence. 2 16. The cell according to claim 15 consisting of insect cells or mammalian cells. ,17. A method for producing a selected polypeptide comprising culturing a selected host cell infected with a recombinant virus comprising an Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, an allelic variant or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, operably linked to a selected heterologous gene sequence encoding said polypeptide, and recovering said polypeptide from the culture medium. 
 
     
 18. A method for screening recombinant host cells for insertion of heterologous genes comprising transforming said cells with a polynucleotide molecule comprising the selected heterologous gene sequence inserted into the polynucleotide sequence encoding entomopox spheroidin, wherein the absence of occlusion bodies normally formed by the expression of the spheroidin protein indicates the integration of the heterologous gene. S..e 19. An Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence free from S association with other viral nucleotide sequences with which it is associated in nature substantially as herein described with reference to any one of Examples 1 to 7. An Entomopoxvirus spheroidin polypeptide, an analog or fragment thereof which specifically characterises said Entomopoxvirus spheroidin gene polynucleotide sequence, substantially as herein described with reference to Example 3. 
 
     
 21. A recombinant polynucleotide molecule substantially as herein described with reference to any one of Examples 1 to 9. 
 
     
 22. A recombinant molecule substantially as herein described with refe: to any one of Examples 1 to 9. 
 
     
 23. A recombinant virus comprising a polynucleotide sequence of claim 19, optionally linked to a selected heterologous gene sequence. IN:\LIBAA100272:LMM tP rr~trsrer;.~i2?3i=-~: 
 
     
 24. A cell infected with a recombinant virus according to claim 23. A method for producing a selected polypeptide which method is substantially as herein described with reference to any one of Examples 1 to 9. 
 
     
 26. The selected polypeptide produced by the method according to claim 17 or claim Dated 22 August, 1995 University of Florida Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person SPRUSON FERGUSON I S [N:\LIBAA10027.' '.M 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
