
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A protein except as existing in nature, comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and functional equivalents thereof. 
 
     
 2. An antibody made by a process comprising the step of injecting a pharmaceutically acceptable preparation comprising the protein of claim 1 into an animal capable of producing said antibody. 
 
     
 3. The process of claim 2, wherein said animal is a mouse and said process further comprises fusing spleen cells from said mouse with myeloma cells to produce a monoclonal antibody binding to said protein. 
 
     
 4. An antibody that binds preferentially to the protein of claim 1. A polynucleotide, except as existing in nature, encoding a protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and functional equivalents thereof. 
 
     
 6. An expression vector comprising the polynucleotide of claim  
 
     
 7. A host cell transformed with the vector of claim 6. 
 
     
 8. Recombinant neurotensin-like receptor (NLR) produced by the host cell of claim 7. 25 9. The polynucleotide of claim 6 wherein said polynucleotide has a sequence comprising nucleotides 65-1309 of SEQ ID NO: 2 and functional equivalents thereof. An expression vector comprising the polynucleotide of claim 9. 30 11. A host cell transformed with the vector of claim *t o* *ooo. I AstraZeneca spec v2 27.2.03.doc 
 
     
 12. A method of assaying a test compound for its ability to bind to a neurotensin-like receptor, comprising: a) incubating a source containing a protein according to claim 1 with: i) a ligand known to bind to said protein; ii) said test compound; and b) determining the extent to which said ligand binding is displaced by said test compound. 
 
     
 13. A method for determining if a test compound is an agonist of a neurotensin-like receptor, comprising: a) incubating a cell expressing a protein according to claim 1 with said test compound; and b) determining whether said test compound causes a statistically significant increase in either intracellular adenyl cyclase activity or the intracellular concentration of calcium. 
 
     
 14. A method for determining if a test compound is an antagonist of a neurotensin-like receptor, comprising: a) incorporating a DNA molecule encoding a protein according to claim 1 into an expression vector so that it is operably linked to a promoter; b) transfecting said expression vector into a host; c) selecting cells transfected in step b) that have constitutively activated neurotensin- 25 like receptors as evidenced by either: i) a statistically significant increase in intracellular adenyl cyclase activity; or ii) a statistically significant increase in intracellular calcium concentration; d) contacting the cells selected in step c) with said test compound; and e) determining if said test compound causes a statistically significant decrease in either S 30 said adenyl cyclase activity or said calcium concentration relative to control cells not contacted with said test compound. W ABree m dments\628089 AstraZeneca spec v2 27.2.03.doc *o *o. 26 A method for assaying a test compound for its ability to alter the activity of a neurotensin-like receptor, comprising: a) incubating a source containing a protein according to claim 1 with: i) a ligand that binds with specificity to said protein; ii) said test compound; and b) determining whether said test compound increases or decreases intracellular calcium concentration in response to said ligand. 
 
     
 16. A method for assaying a test compound for its ability to alter the expression of a neurotensin-like receptor comprising: a) growing cells expressing a protein according to claim 1; b) collecting said cells; and c) comparing receptor expression in the cells exposed to said test compound with control cells grown under essentially identical conditions but not exposed to said test compound. 
 
     
 17. The method of claim 16, wherein cells expressing said protein are cells transformed with an expression vector comprising a polynucleotide sequence encoding a protein with an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and functional equivalents thereof. 
 
     
 18. The method of claim 16 or 17 wherein said test compound is an oligonucleotide at least 15 nucleotides in length and comprising a sequence complementary to the sequence of 25 a polynucleotide encoding a protein according to claim 1. 
 
     
 19. A protein according to claim 1 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. 30 20. An antibody according to claim 2 or 4 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. 
 
     
 21. A process according to claim 3 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. endmens628 AsaZen specv227.03.doc we vn endmes82 89 Atrazeneca spec v2 21.03.doc {7c~ 
 
     
 22. A polynucleotide according to claim 5 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. 
 
     
 23. A vector according to claim 6 or 10 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. 
 
     
 24. A cell according to claim 7 or 11 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. 
 
     
 25. Recombinant neurotensin-like receptor according to claim 8 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. 
 
     
 26. A method according to any one of claims 12 to 18 substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to any of the Examples. DATED: 4 March, 2003 PHILLIPS ORMONDE FITZPATRICK Attorneys for: ASTRAZENECA AB 4- %ree'mendmentsk=2089 AstraZeneca spec Q2 27.203.dec 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
