
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:  
   
 1. A method for producing a secreted human a-galactosidase A, comprising:   (a) amplifying an a-galactosidase A nucleotide sequence in an engineered mammalian cell, wherein said cell expresses a-galactosidase A and dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), by step-wise growth in increasing methotrexate concentrations so that the .alpha.-galactosidase A is sufficiently overexpressed by said cell so as to form crystalline structures, (b) culturing said cell under conditions in which the .alpha.-galactosidase A is selectively secreted into the mammalian cell culture medium; and (c) isolating said .alpha.-galactosidase A from the cell culture medium.  
 
     
 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sufficient overexpression is achieved by a combination of (i) amplification of the .alpha.-galactosidase A nucleotide sequence and (ii) butyrate stimulation.  
 
     
 3. The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said a-galactosidase A contains mannose-6-phosphate  
 
     
 4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said .alpha.-galactosidase A is sialylated.  
 
     
 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein said .alpha.-galactosidase A is .alpha.2,6-sialylated .alpha.-galactosidase A.  
 
     
 6. A method for producing a secreted human .alpha.2,6-sialylated .alpha.-galactosidase A, comprising:   (a) culturing an engineered mammalian cell expressing a2,6-sialyltransferase and .alpha.-galactosidase A under conditions in which the .alpha.-galactosidase A is overexpressed and selectively secreted into the mammalian cell culture medium; and (b) isolating said .alpha.-galactosidase A from the cell culture medium.  
 
     
 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein said cell expresses dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), and wherein said .alpha.-galactosidase A in the cell culture medium is obtainable by amplifying an .alpha.-galactosidase A nucleotide sequence with 1000 µM methotrexate.  
 
     
 8. The method according to claim 6 or claim 7, wherein said .alpha.-galactosidase A contains mannose-6-phosphate.  
 
     
 9. A secreted human .alpha.2,6-sialylated .alpha.-galactosidase A   containing mannose-6-phosphate.  
 
     
 10. The .alpha.-galactosidase A of claim 9, obtainable by the method of claim 5 or 8.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
