
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:  
   
 1. An anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line which is selected from the group consisting of the hybridoma cell lines deposited as FERM BP-5284 and FERM BP-5286 at the International Depository Authority for the deposit of microorganisms, said anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody being cross-reactive with annexin-V from the heart cells of one or more mammalian species.  
 
     
 2. A hydridoma cell line selected from the group consisting of the hybridoma cell lines deposited as FERM BP-5284 and FERM BP-5286 at the International depository Authority for the deposit of microorganisms, said hybridoma cell line having the ability to produce an anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody which has a binding specificity to an antigenic determinant on annexin-V antigenic protein and which is capable of cross-reacting with annexin-V from the heart of one or more mammalian species.  
 
     
 3. A diagnostic agent for myocardial infarction and angina pectoris which comprises: a first reagent containing a first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody being produced by a hybridoma cell line selected from the group consisting of the hybridoma cell lines deposited as FERM BP-5284 and FERM BP-5286 at the International Depository Authority for the deposit of microorganisms; a second reagent containing a second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody being produced by the other hybridoma cell line selected from said group, or polyclonal antibody, wherein the antibody of the second reagent is labeled; wherein the antibodies of both reagents are cross-reactive with annexin-V from human heart cells and the annexin-V antigen is annexin-V from heart cells of one or more mammalian species.  
 
     
 4. The diagnostic agent for myocardial infarction and angina pectoris of claim 3 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5284 and the labeled second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is produced by labeling the anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5286.  
 
     
 5. The diagnostic agent for myocardial infarction and angina pectoris of claim 3 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM B-5286 and the labeled second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is produced by labeling the anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5284.  
 
     
 6. The diagnostic agent for myocardial infarction and angina pectoris of claim 3 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5284 and the labeled second anti-annexin-V polyclonal antibody is anti-dog-annexin-V antibody which cross-reacts with human annexin-V.  
 
     
 7. The diagnostic agent for myocardial infarction and angina pectoris of claim 3 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5286 and the labeled second anti-annexin-V polyclonal antibody is anti-dog-annexin-V antibody which cross-reacts with human annexin-V.  
 
     
 8. A method for diagnosing myocardial infarction and angina pectoris comprising the steps o~ causing an antigen-antibody reaction of annexin-V in a sample with a first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody to form an annexin-V antigen/anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody complex; allowing the antigenic site of annexin-V of the formed annexin-V antigen/anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody complex to be bound with a labeled second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody or labeled anti-annexin-V polyclonal antibody so as to form a labeled form of said annexin-V antigen/anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody complex bound with the polyclonal or monoclonal antibody; and quantitatively analyzing the labeled form of said complex to perform said diagnosis.  
 
     
 9. The method of diagnosing myocardial infarction or angina pectoris of claim 8 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is produced by a hybridoma cell line selected from the group consisting of the hybridoma cell lines deposited as FERM BP-5284 and FERM BP-5286 at the International Depository Authority for the deposit of microorganisms, and the labeled second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is produced by labeling the second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced being different from the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line which is selected from the same said group, wherein said first and second anti-annexin monoclonal antibodies have a binding specificity for an antigenic determinant on annexin-V protein from human heart cells.  
 
     
 10. The method for diagnosing myocardial infarction and angina pectoris of claim 8 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody produced by the hydridoma cell line FERM BP-5284.  
 
     
 11. The method for diagnosing myocardial infarction and angina pectoris of claim 8 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5286.  
 
     
 12. The method for diagnosing myocardial infarction and angina pectoris of claim 8 in which the labeled second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5284.  
 
     
 13. The method for diagnosing myocardial infarction angina pectoris of claim 8 in which the labeled second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5286.  
 
     
 14. A method for analyzing annexin-V in human cardiac muscle or in a sample which comprises causing an antigen-antibody reaction of human annexin-V in the human cardiac muscle or the sample with an anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line selected from the group consisting of the hybridoma cell lines deposited as FERM BP-5284 and FERM BP-5286 at the International Depository Authority for the deposit of microorganisms, to form an annexin-V antigen-anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody complex and quantitatively analyzing the formed annexin V antigen-anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody complex.  
 
     
 15. A method for analyzing annexin-V in a sample which comprises the steps of: causing an antigen-antibody reaction of human annexin-V in the sample with a first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line selected from the group consisting of the hybridoma cell lines deposited as FERM BP-5284 and FERM BP-5286 at the International Depository Authority for the deposit of microorganisms to form an annexin-V antigen-anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody complex, allowing the antigenic site of human annexin-V of the formed annexin-V  antigenic-anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody complex to be bound with a labeled second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody or anti-annexin-V polyclonal antibody, so as to form a labeled from of said annexin-V antigen-anti-annexin-V monoclonal polyclonal antibody complex bound with labeled anti-annexin-V polyclonal antibody or labeled the second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody; quantitatively analyzing the labeled form of the complex and;     said labeled second anti-annexin monoclonal antibody is produced by labeling second anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody being different from the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody and produced by a hybridoma cell line which is selected from the group consisting of the hybridoma cell line deposited as FERM BP-5284 and FERM  BP-5286 at the International Depository Authority for the deposit of microorganisms.  
 
     
 16. The method of claim 15 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is one produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5284 and has a binding specificity for an antigenic determinant on human annexin-V antigenic protein.  
 
     
 17. The method of claim 15 in which the first anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody is one produced by the hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5286 and has a binding specificity for an antigenic determinant on human annexin-V antigenic protein.  
 
     
 18. The method of claim 15 in which the labeled second anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody is produced by labeling the anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5284 and has a binding specificity for an antigenic determinant on human annexin-V antigenic protein.  
 
     
 19. The method of claim 15 in which the labeled second anti-annexin-V  monoclonal antibody is produced by labeling the anti-annexin-V monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line FERM BP-5286 at and has a binding specificity for an antigenic determinant on human annexin-V antigenic protein.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
