
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims  
   
 1. Use of anti-sCD44 and/or anti-vCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment of malignant diseases which are associated with the degeneration, activation or massive multiplication of Langerhans cells (LC) and/or dendritic cells (DC).  
 
     
 2. Use of anti-sCD44 and/or anti-vCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claim 1, characterised in that the malignant diseases are Langerhans-cell-histiocytoses, histiocytosis X, Abt-Letterer-Siewe syndrome or eosinophilic granuloma.  
 
     
 3. Use of anti-sCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claims 1 and 2, characterised in that the antibodies recognise N-terminal epitopes of sCD44, or parts thereof.  
 
     
 4. Use of anti-vCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the antibodies recognise epitopes coded by variant exons of vCD44, or parts thereof.  
 
     
 5. Use of anti-vCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claim 4, characterised in that the antibodies recognise epitopes coded by the variant exons v4, v5, v6 and/or v9, or parts thereof.  
 
     
 6. Use of anti-vCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claim 5, characterised in that the antibodies are capable of reacting with the following amino acid sequences or parts thereof:      ISTTPRAFDHTKQNQDWTQWNPSHSNPEVLLLQTTTRMT      DVDRNGTTAYEGNWNPEAHPPLIHHEHHEEEETPHSTST      QATPSSTTEETATQKEQWFGNRWHEGYRQTPREDSHSTTGTA      QQSNSQSFSTSHEGLEEDKDHPTTSTLTSS.  
 
     
 7. Use of anti-vCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claim 6, characterised in that the antibody consists of the antibody VFF-18 directed against the epitope coded by v6, or parts thereof, and those antibodies which are capable of reacting with the epitope recognised by VFF-18 or parts thereof.  
 
     
 8. Use of anti-sCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment of diseases and conditions of a mammalian organism based on an immunoregulatory disorder or an undesirable or excessive immune reaction.  
 
     
 9. Use of anti-sCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation according to claim 10, characterised in that the immunoregulatory disorder or the undesirable or excessive immune reaction are allergic diseases, allergies of the delayed type, rejection of skin or organ transplants, autoimmune diseases, diseases of the rheumatic type, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis or atopical dermatitis.  
 
     
 10. Use of anti-sCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claims 8 and 9, characterised in that the antibodies recognise N-terminal epitopes of sCD44, or parts thereof.  
 
     
 11. Use of anti-sCD44 and/or anti-vCD44 antibodies for producing a preparation for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment according to claims 1 to 10, characterised in that the antibodies are monoclonal antibodies or fragments or derivatives thereof.  
 
     
 12. Use of the antibody VFF-18 directed against the epitope coded by v6, or parts thereof, and those antibodies which are capable of reacting with the epitope recognised by VFF-18 or parts thereof, for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment of diseases and conditions of mammalian organisms according to one of claims 8 and 9.  
 
     
 13. Process for producing dendritic cells, characterised in that isolated monocytes are cultivated for a few days in a culture medium consisting of RPMI 1640, foetal calf serum, penicillin/streptomycin, a buffer consisting of an N-substituted aminosulphonic acid, non-essential amino acids, L-glutamine, GM-CSF and an interleukin, and then isolated.  
 
     
 14. Process for producing dendritic cells according to claim 13, characterised in that the isolated monocytes are cultivated for 8 days in a culture medium consisting of RPMI 1640, 10% FCS, 45µ penicillin/streptomycin, 25 mM Hepes, 1 mM  non-essential amino acids, 2 mM L-glutamine, 50 ng/ml human GM-CSF and 1000 U/ml IL-4 and then isolated.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
