
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 1. Chimaeric plant promoter, characterized in that it comprises a minimal promoter and transcription-activating elements from a set of promoters, which elements have a complementary pattern and level of transcription in a plant.  
 
     
 2. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 1, characterized in that each of the transcription-activating elements do not exhibit an absolute tissue-specificity, but mediate transcriptional activation in most plant parts at a level of ~1% of the level reached in the part of the plant in which transcription is most active.  
 
     
 3. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that one promoter of the set of promoters is specifically active in green parts of the plant, while the other promoter is specifically active in underground parts of the plant.  
 
     
 4. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 3, characterized in that it is a combination of the ferrodoxine and the RolD promoter.  
 
     
 5. Chimaeric plant promoter of claim 4, characterized in that the minimal promoter element is derived from the ferredoxin promoter.  
 
     
 6. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 4 or 5, characterized in that the ferredoxin promoter is derived from Arabidopsis thaliana.  
 
     
 7. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 6, characterized in that it comprises the sequences of SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ ID NO: 2.  
 
     
 8. Chimaeric promoter according to claim 7, characterized in that it comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3.  
 
     
 9. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 3, characterized in that it is a combination of the plastocyanin and the S-adenosyl-methionine-1 promoter.  
 
     
 10. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 9, characterized in that the minimal promoter element is derived from the S-adenosyl-methionine-1 promoter.  
 
     
 11. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 9 or 10, characterized in that the plastocyanin promoter is derived from Arabidopsis thaliana.  
 
     
 12. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 9, 10 or 11, characterized in that the S-adenosyl-methionine-1 promoter is derived from Arabidopsis thaliana.  
 
     
 13. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 12, characterized in that it comprises the sequences of SEQ ID NO:4 and SEQ ID NO:17.  
 
     
 14. Chimaeric plant promoter according to claim 13, characterized in that it comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 21.  
 
     
 15. Chimaeric gene construct for the expression of genes in plants comprising the promoter of any of claims 1-14.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
