
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:  
   
 1. A recombinant polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4.  
 
     
 2. A recombinant polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6.  
 
     
 3. A recombinant polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8.  
 
     
 4. A recombinant polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.  
 
     
 5. A cDNA sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 which codes for the recombinant polypeptide of claim 1.  
 
     
 6. A cDNA sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5 which codes for the recombinant polypeptide of claim 2.  
 
     
 7. A cDNA sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7 which codes for the recombinant polypeptide of claim 3.  
 
     
 8. A cDNA sequence of SEQ ID. NO: 1 which codes for the recombinant polypeptide of claim 4.  
 
     
 9. A recombinant expression vector comprising the cDNA sequence of claim 5 which expresses the recombinant polypeptide of claim 1.  
 
     
 10. A recombinant expression vector comprising the cDNA sequence of claim 6 which expresses the recombinant polypeptide of claim 2.  
 
     
 11. A recombinant expression vector comprising the cDNA sequence of claim 7 which expresses the recombinant polypeptide of claim 3.  
 
     
 12. A recombinant expression vector comprising the cDNA sequence of claim 8 which expresses the recombinant polypeptide of claim 4.  
 
     
 13. Escherichia coli transformed with the recombinant expression vector of claim 9, denoted BL21 (DE3)/LK6 and deposited with Korean Collection for Type Cultures under accession number KCTC0655BP.  
 
     
 14. Escherichia coli transformed with the recombinant expression vector of claim 10, denoted BL21 (DE3)/LK7 and deposited with Korean Collection for Type Cultures under accession number KCTC0656BP.  
 
     
 15. Escherichia coli transformed with the recombinant expression vector of claim 11, denoted BL21/LK8 and deposited with Korean Collection for Type Cultures under accession number KCTC0634BP.  
 
     
 16. Escherichia coli transformed with the recombinant expression vector of claim 12, denoted BL21/LK6-8 and deposited with Korean Collection for Type Cultures under accession number KCTC0633BP.  
 
     
 17. An anticancer agent which comprises an active ingredient selected from the group consisting of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 4, the polypeptide of SEQ ID      NO: 6, the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 8 and the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2 and a pharmaceutical acceptable carrier.  
 
     
 18. Use of a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 4, the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 6, the polypeptide of SEQ ID      NO: 8 and the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2 in the manufacture of a pharmaceutical for the treatment of angiogenesis-mediated disease.  
 
     
 19. The use of claim 18, wherein the angiogenesis-mediated disease is selected from the group consisting of cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and ocular angiogenic disease.  
 
     
 20. Use of a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 4, the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 6, the polypeptide of SEQ ID      NO: 8 and the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2 for the treatment of angiogenesis-mediated disease.  
 
     
 21. The use of claim 20, wherein the angiogenesis-mediated disease is selected from the group consisting of cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and ocular angiogenic disease.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
