
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What is claimed is  
   
 1. A goat zygote which comprises a nucleic acid construct containing a nucleotide sequence of a goat .beta. -casein promoter and a nucleic acid sequence encoding human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor(hG-CSF).  
 
     
 2. The goat zygote of claim 1, wherein the goat is Capra hircus aegagrus.  
 
     
 3. The goat zygote of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid construct is expression vector pGb-hGCSF(SEQ ID NO: 1).  
 
     
 4. The goat zygote of claim 3 which is Capra hircus aegagrus embryos/pGbc-bGCSF(KCTC 0718BP).  
 
     
 5. A method for preparing the goat zygote of claim 1 which comprises microinjecting a nucleic acid construct containing a nucleotide sequence of a goat .beta. -casein promoter and a nucleotide sequence encoding hG-CSF into an intact goat zygote.  
 
     
 6. A method for preparing an intact goat zygote which comprises synchronizing a female goat, superovulating the female goat, mating the superovulated female goat with a male goat and recovering a zygote from the mated female goat, characterized in that the synchronizing step is conducted by administering norgestomet and estradiol to the female goat, inserting an implant containing norgestomet to the female goat and removing the implant; and the superovulating step is conducted by administering to the female goat, sequentially at predetermined time intervals, a combined dose of pregnant mare serum gonadotropin(PMSG) and follicle stimulating hormone(FSH), divided doses of FSH, and a combined dose of FSH and human chorionic gonadotropin(hCG).  
 
     
 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the goat is Capra hircus aegagrus; and in the synchronizing step, the administration of PMSG and FSH is carried out at 60 hours before the removal of the implant, the FSH administration is carried out six times every 12 hours after the administration of PMSG and FSH, and the administration of FSH and hCG is carried out 12 hours thereafter.  
 
     
 8. A transgenic goat producing milk containing hG-CSF, which is developed from the goat zygote of any one of claims 1 to 4.  
 
     
 9. A process for preparing the transgenic goat of claim 8 which comprises transferring the goat zygote of any one of claims 1 to 4 into a female goat and allowing the goat zygote to develop to term.  
 
     
 10. A method for producing hG-CSF which comprises producing milk from the transgenic goat of claim 8 and recovering the hG-CSF from the milk.  
 
     
 11. A milk composition comprising hG-CSF, which is produced from the transgenic goat of claim 8.  
 
     
 12. hG-CSF which is produced by method of claim 10.  
 
     
 13. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises the hG-CSF of claim 12 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
