
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A use of a sufficient amount of an uncompetitive inhibitor of estrogen-stimulated leucine aminopeptidase (es-LAPase) for reducing HIV infectivity towards T lymphocytes.  
 
     
 2. A use of a sufficient amount of an uncompetitive inhibitor of estrogen-stimulated leucine amino peptidase (es-LAPase) for the production of a medicament for reducing HIV infectivity towards T lymphocytes.  
 
     
 3. The use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the uncompetitive inhibitor is a thiol containing compound.  
 
     
 4. The use according to claim 3 wherein the thiol containing compound is thioredoxin.  
 
     
 5. A use of a sufficient amount of an antibody specific for es-LAPase for reducing HIV infectivity towards T lymphocytes.  
 
     
 6. A use of a sufficient amount of an antibody specific for es-LAPase for the production of a medicament for reducing HIV infectivity towards T lymphocytes.  
 
     
 7. The use according to claim 5 or 6 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.  
 
     
 8. The use according to claim 7 wherein the monoclonal antibody is produced by hybridoma cell line 7B6 (International Depositary Authority of Canada #      IDAC 230300-1).  
 
     
 9. A use according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the use further comprises the use of at least one LAPase inhibitor.  
 
     
 10. The use according to claim 9 wherein the inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of Bestatin and a thiol containing compound.  
 
     
 11. The use according to claim 10 wherein the thiol containing compound is selected from the group consisting of thioredoxin and glutathione.  
 
     
 12. The use according to claim 11 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.  
 
     
 13. The use according to claim 12 wherein the monoclonal antibody is produced by hybridoma cell line 7B6 (International Depositary Authority of Canada #      IDAC 230300-1).  
 
     
 14. A use according to claim 9, wherein the use further comprises the use of at least one anti-estrogen compound.  
 
     
 15. The use according to claim 14 wherein the anti-estrogen is selected from the group consisting of 4-hydroxyandrostenedione, Raloxifene, 3.beta., 5.alpha.-tetrahydro Norethisterone, Tamoxifen, Droloxifene, Idoxifene.  
 
     
 16. A use of a pharmaceutically effective amount of a composition which comprises an antibody specific to es-LAPase and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for reducing the susceptibility of T lymphocytes to HIV infection in a patient in need thereof.  
 
     
 17. A use of a pharmaceutically effective amount of a composition which comprises an antibody specific to es-LAPase and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for the production of a medicament for reducing the susceptibility of T lymphocytes to HIV infection in a patient in need thereof.  
 
     
 18. The use according to claim 16 or 17 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.  
 
     
 19. The use according to claim 18 wherein the monoclonal antibody is produced by hybridoma cell line 7B6 (International Depositary Authority of Canada #      IDAC 230300-1).  
 
     
 20. A use of a pharmaceutically effective amount of a composition which comprises an uncompetitive inhibitor of LAPase and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for reducing the susceptibility of T lymphocytes to HIV infection in a patient in need thereof.  
 
     
 21. A use of a pharmaceutically effective amount of a composition which comprises an uncompetitive inhibitor of LAPase and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for the production of a medicament for reducing the susceptability of T lymphocytes to HIV infection in a patient in need thereof.  
 
     
 22. The use according to claim 20 or 21 wherein the uncompetitive inhibitor is a thiol containing compound.  
 
     
 23. The use according to claim 22 wherein the thiol containing compound is thioredoxin.  
 
     
 24. The use according to claim 16 wherein the composition further comprises an uncompetitive inhibitor of LAPase.  
 
     
 25. The use according to claim 24 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.  
 
     
 26. The use according to claim 25 wherein the monoclonal antibody is produced by hybridoma cell line 7B6 (International Depositary Authority of Canada #      IDAC 230300-1).  
 
     
 27. The use according to claim 26 wherein the uncompetitive inhibitor is a thiol containing compound.  
 
     
 28. The use according to claim 27 wherein the thiol containing compound is thioredoxin.  
 
     
 29. The use according to claim 24 wherein the composition further comprises an anti-estrogen compound.  
 
     
 30. The use according to claim 29 wherein the anti-estrogen is selected from the group consisting of 4-hydroxyandrostenedione, Raloxifene, 3.beta., 5.alpha.-tetrahydro Norethisterone, Tamoxifen, Droloxifene, Idoxifene.  
 
     
 31. A composition comprising an antibody specific to es-LAPase and an inhibitor of LAPase.  
 
     
 32. The composition according to claim 31 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.  
 
     
 33. The composition according to claim 32 wherein the monoclonal antibody is produced by hybridoma cell line 7B6 (International Depositary Authority of Canada # IDAC 230300-1).  
 
     
 34. The composition according to claim 31 wherein the inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of Bestatin and a thiol containing compound.  
 
     
 35. The composition according to claim 34 wherein the thiol containing compound is selected from the group consisting of thioredoxin and glutathione.  
 
     
 36. The composition according to claim 31 wherein the composition further comprises an anti-estrogen compound.  
 
     
 37. The composition according to claim 36 wherein the anti-estrogen is selected from the group consisting of 4-hydroxyandrostenedione, Raloxifene, 3.beta., 5.alpha.-tetrahydro Norethisterone, Tamoxifen, Droloxifene, Idoxifene.  
 
     
 38. A use of a sufficient amount of an uncompetitive inhibitor of LAPase, a monoclonal antibody specific for es-LAPase and an anti-estrogen for reducing the susceptibility of T lymphocytes to HIV infection.  
 
     
 39. A use of an uncompetitive inhibitor of LAPase, a competitive inhibitor of LAPase, a monoclonal antibody specific for es-LAPase and an anti-estrogen for reducing the susceptibility of T lymphocytes to HIV infection.  
 
     
 40. A use of a composition comprising a sufficient amount of an uncompetitive inhibitor of LAPase, a monoclonal antibody specific for es-LAPase and an anti-estrogen for making a medicament for reducing the susceptibility of T lymphocytes to HIV infection.  
 
     
 41. A use of a composition comprising a sufficient amount of an uncompetitive inhibitor of LAPase, a competitive inhibitor of LAPase, a monoclonal antibody specific for es-LAPase and an anti-estrogen for malting a medicament for reducing the susceptibility of T lymphocytes to HIV infection.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
