
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims:- 
   
 1. A method for the rapid screening of analytes, comprising the steps of: a) disposing a plurality of analytes to be screened within individually identifiable containers for storage; b) simultaneously applying said plurality of analytes onto one or more solid support(s) such that said analytes are directly applied from said containers to the or each solid support and remain isolated from one another; c) contacting said analyte-carrying solid support(s) with targets provided in a semi-solid or liquid medium, whereby said analytes are released from the solid support(s) to the targets; and d) measuring analyte-target interactions.  
 
     
 2. A method according to Claim 1, wherein the individually identifiable containers are selected from tubes, including capillary tubes, pens, including plotter pens, and print heads.  
 
     
 3. A method according to Claim 2, wherein the individually identifiable containers are an array of capillary tubes each of which is identifiable according to its position within the array, and wherein transfer of the analytes to the solid support(s) occurs by dispensing thereof through the open ends of the capillary tubes.  
 
     
 4. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein the solid support is of a substantially flat, disc-, rectangular- or square-shape.  
 
     
 5. A method according to Claim 4, wherein the solid support comprises a material which allows for spontaneous release of the analyte(s) when applied thereto.  
 
     
 6. A method according to Claim 4, wherein the solid support comprises a material which allows for controlled release of the analyte(s) when applied thereto.  
 
     
 7. A method according to Claim 5 or 6, wherein said material is said semi-solid medium.  
 
     
 8. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein when each analyte is applied to the solid support it diffuses thereon so as to produce a concentration gradient.  
 
     
 9. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the surface of the solid support onto which the analytes are applied is selected from polymers, ceramics, metals, cellulose and glass.  
 
     
 10. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said semi-solid medium is disposed on a carrier.  
 
     
 11. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the solid support is in the form of a flexible film or tape onto which the target-containing semi-solid medium is applied, whereby the method can be automated using a system of rollers to progress the flexible film or tape through the various steps of the method.  
 
     
 12. A method according to Claim 11, wherein the carrier is covered by a further layer of film or tape and is thereby sandwiched between the solid support and the covering layer.  
 
     
 13. A method according to Claim 11 or 12, wherein the solid support or covering layer (if present) is provided with a track for the recordal of information regarding the applied analytes, whereby the information can be read and processed simultaneously with the measurement of analyte-target interactions in an automated process.  
 
     
 14. A method according to any one of Claims 1-9, wherein the solid support is itself a detector or forms part of a detector.  
 
     
 15. A method according to Claim 14, wherein the solid support is selected from a SiO2 wafer, a charge-coupled device, and a photographic film.  
 
     
 16. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the surface of the solid support is coated with a membrane, a molecular monolayer, a cellular monolayer or a Langmuir-Blodgett film.  
 
     
 17. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the solid support is itself an information carrier which carries information in electronic, magnetic or digitised form.  
 
     
 18. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said surface of the solid support is reflective.  
 
     
 19. A method according to Claim 18, when dependent on Claim 16, wherein said surface is the reflective surface of a compact disc.  
 
     
 20. A method according to Claim 19, further comprising the step of copying said compact disc to a writable compact disc.  
 
     
 21. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the semi-solid medium comprises a substance which provides a semi-solid or viscous liquid environment allowing controlled release of said anlaytes to said target.  
 
     
 22. A method according to Claim 21, wherein said substance is selected from gelatin, polysaccharides such as agar and agarose, and polymers such as methylcellulose and polyacrylamide or a so-called intelligent material.  
 
     
 23. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein steps b) and c) are carried out simultaneously.  
 
     
 24. A method according to Claim 1, wherein each analyte is applied to a single solid support.  
 
     
 25. A method according to Claim 24, wherein the solid support is of a rod shape or a spherical shape.  
 
     
 26. A method according to Claim 24 or 25, wherein each analyte-bearing solid support is contacted in step b) with a target in a separate compartment of a mufti-compartmented apparatus.  
 
     
 27. A method according to Claim 26, wherein said compartments are an arrangement of mini-wells in said apparatus.  
 
     
 28. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the analytes are selected from chemical compounds, antigens, antibodies, DNA-probes, cells and beads and liposomes carrying an analyte of interest.  
 
     
 29. A method according to Claim 28, wherein the analytes, when applied to the solid support, are dissolved in an organic or inorganic solvent.  
 
     
 30. A method according to Claim 29, wherein the solvent includes a so-called intelligent material responsive to a chemical or physical parameter such that each analyte following application to the solid support and drying liquifies in response to said chemical or physical parameter.  
 
     
 31. A method according to any one of Claims 28-30, wherein the analyte is a chemical compound.  
 
     
 32. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said targets are selected from prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells, viruses, molecules, receptors, beads, and combinations thereof.  
 
     
 33. A method according to Claim 32, wherein the targets are cells equipped with reporter functions.  
 
     
 34. A method according to Claim 33, wherein said analyte-target interactions are measurable by the effects of the analytes on the reporter functions of the cells.  
 
     
 35. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said analyte-target interactions are measured using one or more of the following methods: microscopic, colorimetric, fluorometric, luminometric, densitometric, isotopic, and physical measurements.  
 
     
 36. A method according to any one of Claims 11-35, wherein: a) a first information carrier, in the form of a film or tape, having analytes to be screened applied to a surface thereof as discrete spots or lines, is brought into contact with a second information carrier, which carrier is also in the form of a film or tape, having targets of interest embedded in a semi-solid matrix on a surface thereof; b) the respective carriers are wound with their respective analyte- and target-bearing surfaces in contact; c) the wound carriers are incubated under conditions at which the analytes are released from the first carrier to the target-bearing surface; d) the first and second carriers are unwound; and e) the second information carrier is passed to an analysis and information reading unit.  
 
     
 37. A method for the rapid screening of analytes which comprises: a) bringing a first information carrier, in the form of a film or tape, having analytes to be screened applied to a surface thereof as discrete spots or lines, into contact with a second information carrier, which carrier is also in the form of a film or tape, having targets of interest embedded in a semi-solid matrix on a surface thereof; b) winding the respective carriers with their respective analyte- and target-bearing surfaces in contact; c) incubating the wound carriers under conditions at which the analytes are released from the first carrier to the target-bearing surface; d) unwinding the first and second carriers; and e) passing the second information carrier to an analysis and information reading unit.  
 
     
 38. An apparatus comprising: a) an array of capillary tubes from which tubes analytes can be simultaneously released to a surface of a solid support, said support being movable relative to the array; and b) a housing adapted to receive the array, said housing being connected to an air pump capable of expelling the analytes from their respective capillary tubes onto the solid support by means of a pressure change.  
 
     
 39. An apparatus according to Claim 38, wherein said analytes are in liquid form.  
 
     
 40. A method according to Claim 1, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.  
 
     
 41. A method according to Claim 1, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying Examples.  
 
     
 42. A method according to Claim 37, substantially as hereinbefore described and exemplified.  
 
     
 43. An apparatus according to Claim 38, substantially as hereinbefore described with particular reference to and as illustrated in Fig. 20 of the accompanying drawings.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
