
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 1. A non-neisserial cell expressing a neisserial iron uptake protein, wherein the iron uptake protein can be extracted from the cell under mild conditions and retains substantially the antigenicity of native iron uptake protein.  
 
     
 2. A non-neisserial cell expressing a neisserial iron uptake protein wherein the iron uptake protein is located in an outer surface membrane of the cell.  
 
     
 3. A cell overexpressing an iron uptake protein, wherein the iron uptake protein is located in an outer surface membrane of the cell.  
 
     
 4. A non-neisserial cell according to any of Claims 1 to 3 expressing a neisserial transferrin binding protein (Tbp) wherein:-said Tbp can be extracted from the cell under mild conditions; and said extracted Tbp retains substantially the antigenicity of native TbpA.  
 
     
 5. A bacterial cell according to any of Claims 1 to 4, expressing TbpA.  
 
     
 6. A bacterial cell according to any of Claims 1 to 5, expressing TbpB.  
 
     
 7. A method of producing an iron uptake protein by expressing a recombinant iron uptake protein gene in a non-neisserial cell host such that the protein is expressed and translocated to a surface membrane of the host.  
 
     
 8. A method according to claim 7 for producing a neisserial iron uptake protein selected from the group consisting of transferrin binding proteins (Tbps), lactoferrin binding proteins (Lbps), haemoglobin binding protein, enterobactin binding protein, vibriobactin binding protein, ferric siderophore binding protein, heme binding protein, hemin binding protein, chrysobactin binding protein, hydroxymate binding protein and pseudobactin binding protein.  
 
     
 9. A method of producing a neisserial transferrin binding protein (Tbp) comprising:   a. expressing a recombinant neisserial Tbp gene in a non-neisserial host such that Tbp protein is expressed and translocated to the cell membrane;   b. under mild conditions, extracting the Tbp protein; and, optionally c. purifying said Tbp protein.  
 
     
 10. A method according to Claim 9 wherein the cell expresses TbpA.  
 
     
 11. A method according to Claim 9 or 10 wherein the cell expresses TbpB.  
 
     
 12. A method according to any of Claims 7 to 11 comprising extracting the Tbp by solubilising membrane bound Tbp in a non-ionic detergent solution.  
 
     
 13. A method according to Claim 12 wherein said non-ionic detergent is selected from the group consisting of an alkyl glucoside; n-octyl-(3-D-glucopyranoside; TRITONR X100; ELUGENTR; dodecyl-maltoside; and n-octyl-.beta.-D-maltoside.  
 
     
 14. A method according to Claim 13 comprising a low energy homogenisation step.  
 
     
 15. A method according to any of Claims 7 to 14, comprising breaking cells and cell membranes with a bead-beating apparatus.  
 
     
 16. A method according to any of Claims 7 to 15 wherein said native Tbp protein is purified by affinity chromatography.  
 
     
 17. A method according to Claim 16 wherein said affinity chromatography comprises using a transferrin-bound affinity matrix.  
 
     
 18. A method according to Claim 17 wherein said transferrin is human transferrin.  
 
     
 19. A method according to any of Claims 7 to 18 comprising culturing a cell according to any of Claims 1 to 6.  
 
     
 20. A method of preparing a vaccine, comprising obtaining an iron uptake protein according to any of Claims 7 to 19 and combining said protein with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.  
 
     
 21. Use of a cell according to any of Claims 1 to 6 in manufacture of Tbp.  
 
     
 22. Use of a cell according to any of Claims 1 to 6 in manufacture of a vaccine for protection against neisserial disease and/or meningococcal disease and/or gonococcal disease.  
 
     
 23. An expression construct comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an iron uptake protein and a leader sequence directing the expressed protein to a surface membrane of the host.  
 
     
 24. An expression construct according to Claim 23, wherein the leader sequence comprises all or part of a neisserial leader sequence.  
 
     
 25. An expression construct according to Claim 23 or 24, wherein the leader sequence is the native leader sequence for the iron uptake protein.  
 
     
 26. An expression construct according to Claim 23, for expression of the protein in a host cell, wherein the leader sequence is all or part of a leader sequence native to the host.  
 
     
 27. An affinity matrix for purification of Tbps comprising human transferrin or fragments thereof that bind Tbps.  
 
     
 28. An affinity matrix according to Claim 27 comprising human recombinant transferrin or fragments thereof.  
 
     
 29. A method of purifying a Tbp, comprising eluting a Tbp-containing preparation through an affinity matrix comprising immobilized transferrin.  
 
     
 30. A method according to Claim 29 using an affinity matrix according to claim 27 or 28.  
 
     
 31. A method according to Claims 29 or 30 wherein the Tbp - containing preparation is obtained according to any of Claims 7 to 19.  
 
     
 32. A commensal neisseria expressing an iron uptake protein from a pathogenic neisseria.  
 
     
 33. A commensal neisseria according to Claim 32 expressing an iron uptake protein from a pathogenic Neisseria in an outer surface membrane of the commensal neisseria.  
 
     
 34. A composition containing a Tbp, wherein at least 90 per cent by weight of said Tbp is active Tbp.  
 
     
 35. A composition according to Claim 34, free of Tbp that is not capable of binding transferrin.]  
 
     
 36. A culture of cells which express a neisserial iron uptake protein, wherein the yield of said protein is at least 4mg per litre of culture.  
 
     
 37. A cell culture according to Claim 36 wherein the protein is TbpA.  
 
     
 38. A cell culture according to Claim 36 wherein the protein is TbpB.  
 
     
 39. A composition comprising an outer membrane vesicle preparation (OMV), wherein the OMV comprises an iron uptake protein and is prepared from a cell according to any of Claims 1 to 6.  
 
     
 40. A method of making a composition for vaccination, comprising obtaining an OMV from a cell according to any of Claims 1 to 6.  
 
     
 41. A method of producing a transferrin binding protein (Tbp) from a pathogenic Neisseria, comprising:-d. expressing a gene encoding the Tbp in a commensal Neisserial host such that Tbp protein is translocated to an outer surface membrane of the commensal host;   e. extracting the Tbp under mild conditions; and f. optionally, purifying said Tbp protein.  
 
     
 42. A method according to Claim 41, comprising extracting an outer membrane vesicle preparation.  
 
     
 43. A method according to Claim 41 or 42, comprising expressing a N. meningitidis gene in N. lactamica.  
 
     
 44. A method according to any of Claims 41 to 43 wherein the Tbp is TbpA.  
 
     
 45. A method according to any of Claims 41 to 43 wherein the Tbp is TbpB.  
 
     
 46. A method according to any of Claims 41 to 45 comprising extracting the Tbp by solubilising membrane bound Tbp in a non-ionic detergent solution.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
