
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:  
   
 1. A purified culture of Chondrostereum purpureum fungus deposited under deposit number 090502-01 at the International Depository Authority of Canada (IDAC) on May 9,2002.  
 
     
 2. A purified culture of Chondrostereum purpureum fungus deposited under deposit number090502-02 at the International Depository Authority of Canada (IDAC)on May 9, 2002.  
 
     
 3. A composition for biologically controlling weedy deciduous trees, comprising an effective amount of at least one fungus as defined in claim 1 or 2, and an environmentally acceptable carrier.  
 
     
 4. The composition of claim 3, wherein the fungus is present in the form of mycelia.  
 
     
 5. The composition of claim 3 or 4, comprising from about 10 5 to 10 7 CFU of said fungus per milliliter of the composition.  
 
     
 6. A composition for inhibiting sprouting and regrowth of freshly cut weedy deciduous trees, the composition comprising:   - an effective amount of at least one fungus as defined in claims 1 or 2; and - and an environmentally acceptable carrier.  
 
     
 7. The composition of claim 6, wherein the carrier comprises a nutritive element suitable for sustaining growth of said fungus.  
 
     
 8. The composition of claim 6 or 7, wherein the carrier comprises a biodegradable inert agent for increasing adherence of the fungus on the tree.  
 
     
 9. A method for biologically controlling weedy deciduous trees, said method comprising the step of colonizing said trees with an effective amount of at least one fungus as defined in claim 1 or 2 or a composition as defined in any one of claims 3 to 8.  
 
     
 10. The method of claims 9, wherein the effective amount consists of about 10 5 to 10 7 CFU of the fungus per milliliter of the composition.  
 
     
 11. A method for biologically controlling weedy deciduous trees, said method comprising the steps of:   a) cutting a stem of a weed tree to provide a stump; and b) applying on said stump, an effective amount of at least one fungus as defined in claim 1 or 2 or a composition as defined in any one of claims 3 to 9.  
 
     
 12. A method for inhibiting sprouting and regrowth of freshly cut stems of weedy deciduous trees which comprises the step of applying to a cut stem an effective amount of at least one fungus as defined in claim 1 or 2 or with a composition as defined in any one of claims 3 to 8.  
 
     
 13. Use of at least one element selected from the group consisting of - a fungus according to claim 1 or 2; and - a composition according to any one of claims 3 to 8, for biologically controlling weed trees.  
 
     
 14. Use of at least one element selected from the group consisting of - a fungus according to claim 1 or 2; and - a composition according to any one of claims 3 to 8, for inhibiting sprouting and regrowth of freshly cut stems of weedy deciduous trees.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
