
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What Is Claimed Is :  
   
 1. An isolated or purified nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of : (a) the nucleotide sequence encoding amino acids 1 to 1157 of SEQ ID  NO : 2; (b) a nucleotide sequence encoding a pyruvate carboxylase enzyme desensitized to feedback inhibition by aspartic acid, said enzyme consisting of an amino acid sequence that differs from SEQ ID NO: 19 by at least one but no more than six mutations, said at least one but not more than six mutations selected from the group consisting of: (i) glutamic acid at position 153 is replaced with an aspartic acid; (ii) alanine at position 182 is replaced with a serine; (iii) alanine at position 206 is replaced with a serine; (iv) histidine at position 227 is replaced with an arginine; (v) alanine at position 455 is replaced with a glycine, and (vi) aspartic acid at position 1120 is replaced with a glutamic acid; and (c) a nucleotide sequence at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1 and which codes for a pyruvate carboxylase enzyme desensitized to feedback inhibition by aspartic acid, wherein said pyruvate carboxylase contains a mutation that corresponds in amino acid position to a mutation in SEQ ID NO: 19 where a: (i) glutamic acid at position 153 is replaced with an aspartic acid; (ii) alanine at position 182 is replaced with a serine; (iii) alanine at position 206 is replaced with a serine; (iv) histidine at position 227 is replaced with an arginine;     (v) alanine at position 455 is replaced with a glycine, or (vi) aspartic acid at position 1120 is replaced with a glutamic acid.  
 
     
 2. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ  ID NO : 1.  
 
     
 3. A vector comprising: (a) the nucleic acid molecule of claim 1; and (b) at least one marker gene.  
 
     
 4. The vector of claim 3, further comprising a functional Corynebacterium replication origin.  
 
     
 5. A method for producing a recombinant cell comprising introducing the vector of claim 3 into a host cell.  
 
     
 6. A recombinant cell comprising the vector of claim 3.  
 
     
 7. A method of producing an amino acid, comprising: (a) culturing the recombinant cell of claim 6, in a suitable media; and (b) separating said amino acid from said medium, wherein said amino acid is selected from the group consisting of: L-lysine, L-threonine, L-methionine, L-isoleucine, L- glutamic acid, L-arginine and L-proline.  
 
     
 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said amino acid is L-lysine.  
 
     
 9. A method for replacement of a wild-type pyruvate carboxylase gene, with a feedback resistant pyruvate carboxylase gene, in a Corynebacterium glutamicum host cell comprising the steps of: (a)    replacing a genomic copy of said wild-type pyruvate carboxylase gene with a selectable marker gene through homologous recombination to form a first recombinant strain; and (b)    replacing said selectable marker gene of step (a) in said first recombinant strain, with said feedback resistant pyruvate carboxylase gene through homologous recombination to form a second recombinant strain;     wherein said homologous recombination in steps (a) and (b) occurs between a wild-type pyruvate carboxylase gene in said host cell and the vector of claim 3.  
 
     
 10. A recombinant Corynebacterium glutamicum strain produced by the method of claim 9.  
 
     
 11.A method of producing an amino acid, comprising: (a)    culturing the recombinant strain of Corynebacterium of claim 10 in a suitable medium; and (b)    separating said amino acid from said medium, wherein said amino acid is selected from the group consisting of : L-lysine, L-threonine, L-methionine, L-isoleucine, L- glutamic acid, L-arginine and L-proline.  
 
     
 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said amino acid is L-lysine.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
