
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims  
   
 1. Use of a probiotic microorganism in the manufacture of a composition for the prevention or reduction of gastrointestinal Campylobacter infection, in a mammalian animal.  
 
     
 2. Use, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the probiotic microorganism is Lactobacillus.  
 
     
 3. Use, as claimed in claim 2, wherein the probiotic microorganism is Lactobacillus acidophilus.  
 
     
 4. Use, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the Campylobacter is Campylobacter jejuni.  
 
     
 5. Use, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the mammalian animal is a dog, cat or a human.  
 
     
 6. Use, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the composition is a foodstuff.  
 
     
 7. Use, as claimed in claim 6, wherein the foodstuff is a dry pet food.  
 
     
 8. A method for the prevention or reduction of gastrointestinal Campylobacter infection in a mammalian animal, the method comprising the administration of a probiotic microorganism to said animal.  
 
     
 9. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein the probiotic microorganism is comprised in a composition.  
 
     
 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the composition is a foodstuff.  
 
     
 11. A method, as claimed in claim 10, wherein the foodstuff is a dry pet food.  
 
     
 12. A method, as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the administration is by oral ingestion.  
 
     
 13. A method, as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 12, wherein the probiotic microorganism is Lactobacillus.  
 
     
 14. A method, as claimed in claim 13, wherein the probiotic microorganism is Lactobacillus acidophilus.  
 
     
 15. A method, as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 14, wherein the Campylobacter infection is Campylobacter jejuni.  
 
     
 16. A method, as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 15, wherein the animal is a cat, dog or a human.  
 
     
 17. A probiotic microorganism, for use in preventing or reducing gastrointestinal Campylobacter infection in a mammalian animal.  
 
     
 18. A probiotic microorganism, as claimed in claim 17, which is comprised in a composition.  
 
     
 19. Use of a probiotic microorganism, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to one or more of the examples.  
 
     
 20. A method for the preventing or reduction of gastrointestinal Campylobacter infection in a mammalian animal, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to one or more of the examples.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
