
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What is claimed is:  
   
 1. Coryneform bacteria which produce chemical compounds, wherein instead of the singular copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele naturally present at the particular desired site (locus), these have at least two copies of the open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele in question, preferably in tandem arrangement, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the particular site, and in that these optionally have at least a third copy of the open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele in question at a further gene site, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the further gene site.  
 
     
 2. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 1 which produce chemical compounds, wherein the coryneform bacteria belong to the genus Corynebacterium.  
 
     
 3. Coryneform bacteria of the genus Corynebacterium according to claim 2 which produce chemical compounds, wherein these belong to the species Corynebacterium glutamicum.  
 
     
 4. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 1 which produce chemical compounds, wherein the chemical compound is a compound chosen from the group consisting of L-amino acids, vitamins, nucleosides and nucleotides.  
 
     
 5. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 1 which produce chemical compounds, wherein the chemical compound is one or more L-amino acids chosen from the group consisting of L-aspartic acid, L-asparagine, L-threonine, L-serine, L-glutamic acid, L-glutamine, glycine, L-alanine, L-cysteine, L-valine, L-methionine, L-isoleucine, L-leucine, L-tyrosine, L-phenylalanine, L-histidine, L-lysine, L-tryptophan, L-proline and L-arginine.  
 
     
 6. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 1 which produce chemical compounds, wherein the chemical compound is the amino acid L-lysine.  
 
     
 7. Coryneform bacteria which produce L-lysine, wherein instead of the singular copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production naturally present at the particular desired site (locus), these have at least two copies of the open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production in question, preferably in tandem arrangement, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the particular site, and in that these optionally have at least a third copy of the open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production in question at a further gene site, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the further gene site.  
 
     
 8. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the coryneform bacteria belong to the genus Corynebacterium.  
 
     
 9. Coryneform bacteria of the genus Corynebacterium according to claim 8 which produce L-lysine, wherein these belong to the species Corynebacterium glutamicum.  
 
     
 10. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is one or more of the open reading frames, genes or alleles chosen from the group consisting of accBC, accDA, cstA, cysD, cysE, cysH, cysK, cysN, cysQ, dapA, dapB, dapC, dapD, dapE, dapF, ddh, dps, eno, gap, gap2, gdh, gnd, lysC, lysC FBR, lysE, msiK, opcA, oxyR, ppc, ppc FBR, pgk, pknA, pknB, pknD, pknG, ppsA, ptsH, ptsI, ptsM, pyc, pyc P458S, sigC, sigD, sigE, sigH, sigM, tal, thyA, tkt, tpi, zwa1, zwf and zwf A213T.  
 
     
 11. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is one or more of the genes or alleles chosen from the group consisting of lysC FBR lysE and zwa1.  
 
     
 12. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is the lysE gene.  
 
     
 13. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is the z-wa1 gene.  
 
     
 14. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is an lysC FBR     allele which codes for a feed back resistant form of aspartate kinase.  
 
     
 15. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 14 which produce L-lysine, wherein the feed back resistant form of aspartate kinase coded by the lysC FBR allele contains an amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID      NO:2 having one or more amino acid exchanges chosen from the group consisting of A279T, A279V, S301F, T308I, S301Y, G345D, R320G, T311I and S381F.  
 
     
 16. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 14 which produce L-lysine, wherein the feed back resistant form of aspartate kinase coded by the lysC FBR allele has an amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO:4.  
 
     
 17. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 14 which produce L-lysine, wherein the coding region of the lysC FBR allele has the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:3.  
 
     
 18. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the further gene site is one or more of the sites chosen from the group consisting of aecD, ccpA1, ccpA2, citA, citB, citE, fda, gluA, gluB, gluC, gluD, luxR, luxS, lysR1, lysR2, lysR3, menE, mqo, pck, pgi and poxB.  
 
     
 19. Coryneform bacteria according to claim 7 which produce L-lysine, wherein the further gene site is one of more of the sites chosen from the group consisting of intergenic regions of the chromosome, prophages contained in the chromosome and defective phages contained in the chromosome.  
 
     
 20. Processes for the preparation of one or more chemical compounds, which comprise the following steps: a) fermentation of coryneform bacteria, which i) instead of the singular copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele naturally present at the particular desired site (locus), have at least two copies of the said open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele, preferably in tandem arrangement, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the particular site, and which ii) optionally have at least a third copy of the said open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele at a further gene site, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the further gene site, under conditions which allow expression of the said open reading frames (ORFs), genes or alleles, b) concentration of the chemical compound(s) in the fermentation broth and/or in the cells of the bacteria, c) isolation of the chemical compound(s), optionally d) with constituents from the fermentation broth and/or the biomass to the extent of > (greater than) 0 to 100%.  
 
     
 21.Process according to claim 20, wherein the coryneform bacteria belong to the genus Corynebacterium.  
 
     
 22.Process according to claim 20, wherein the coryneform bacteria of the genus Corynebacterium belong to the species Corynebacterium glutamicum.  
 
     
 23.Process according to claim 20, wherein the chemical compound is a compound chosen from the group consisting of L-amino acids, vitamins, nucleosides and nucleotides.  
 
     
 24.Process according to claim 20, wherein the chemical compound is one or more L-amino acids chosen from the group consisting of L-aspartic acid, L-asparagine, L-threonine, L-serine, L-glutamic acid, L-glutamine, glycine, L-alanine, L-cysteine, L-valine, L-methionine, L-isoleucine, L-leucine, L-tyrosine, L-phenylalanine, L-histidine, L-lysine, L-tryptophan, L-proline and L-arginine.  
 
     
 25.Process according to claim 20, wherein the chemical compound is L-lysine. 26. Process for the preparation of L-lysine, which comprises the following steps: a) fermentation of coryneform bacteria, which i) instead of the singular copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production naturally present at the particular desired site (locus), have at least two copies of the said open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele, preferably in tandem arrangement, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the particular site, and which optionally ii) have at least a third copy of the said open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production at a further gene site, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics being present at the further gene site, under conditions which allow expression of the said open reading frames (ORFs), genes or alleles, b) concentration of the L-lysine in the fermentation broth and/or in the cells of the bacteria, c) isolation of the L-lysine, optionally d) with constituents from the fermentation broth and/or the biomass to the extent of > (greater than) 0 to 100%. 27.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the coryneform bacteria belong to the genus Corynebacterium. 28.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the coryneform bacteria of the species Corynebacterium belong to the species Corynebacterium glutamicum. 29.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), a gene or allele of lysine production is one or more of the open reading frames, genes or alleles chosen from the group consisting of accBC, accDA, cstA, cysD, cysE, cysH, cysK, cysN, cysQ, dapA, dapB, dapC, dapD, dapE, dapF, ddh, dps, eno, gap, gap2, gdh, gnd, lysC, lysC FBR, lysE, msiK, opcA, oxyR, ppc, ppc FBR, pgk, pknA, pknB, pknD, pknG, ppsA, ptsH, ptsI, ptsM, pyc, pyc P458S, sigC, sigD, sigE, sigH, sigM, tal, thyA, tkt, tpi, zwa1, zwf and zwf A213T. 30.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is one or more of the genes or alleles chosen from the group consisting of lysC FBR, lysE and zwa1. 31.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is the lysE gene. 32.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is the zwa1 gene. 33.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the copy of an open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele of lysine production is the lysC FBR allele which codes for a feed back resistant form of aspartate kinase. 34.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 33, wherein the feed back resistant form of aspartate kinase coded by the lysC FBR allele contains an amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID      NO:2 having one or more amino acid exchanges chosen from the group consisting of A279T, A279V, S301F, T308I, S301Y, G345D, R320G, T311I and S381F.     35.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 33, wherein the feed back resistant form of aspartate kinase coded by the lysC FBR allele has an amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO:4. 36.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 33, wherein the coding region of the lysC FBR allele has the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:3. 37.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to claim 26, wherein the further gene site is one or more of the sites chosen from the group consisting of aecD, ccpA1, ccpA2, citA, citB, citE, fda, gluA, gluB, gluC, gluD, luxR, luxS, lysR1, lysR2, lysR3, menE, mqo, pck, pgi and poxB. 38.Process for the preparation of L-lysine according to  
 
     
 claim 26, wherein the further gene site is one of more of the sites chosen from the group consisting of intergenic regions of the chromosome, prophages contained in the chromosome and defective phages contained in the chromosome. 39.Process for the production of coryneform bacteria which produce one or more chemical compounds, wherein a) the nucleotide sequence of a desired ORF, gene or allele, optionally including the expression and/or regulation signals, is isolated, b) at least two copies of the nucleotide sequence of the ORF, gene or allele are arranged in a row, preferably in tandem arrangement, c) the nucleotide sequence obtained according to b) is incorporated in a vector which does not replicate or replicates to only a limited extent in coryneform bacteria, d) the nucleotide sequence according to b) or c) is transferred into coryneform bacteria, and e) coryneform bacteria which have at least two copies of the desired ORF, gene or allele at the particular desired natural site instead of the singular copy of the ORF, gene or allele originally present are isolated, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics remaining at the particular natural site (locus), and optionally f) at least a third copy of the open reading frame (ORF), gene or allele in question is introduced at a further gene site, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables episomal replication in microorganisms, no nucleotide sequence which is capable of/enables transposition and no nucleotide sequence which imparts resistance to antibiotics remaining at the further gene site. 40.The plasmid pK18mobsacB2xlysCSma2/1 shown in Figure 1 and deposited in the form of a pure culture of the strain E. coli DH5.alpha.mcr/pK18mobsacB2xlysCSma2/1 (=DH5alphamcr/pK18mobsacB2xlysCSma2/1) under number DSM14244.  41.The Corynebacterium glutamicum strain DSM13992lysC FBR::lysC FBR deposited in the form of a pure culture under number DSM15036. 42.The Corynebacterium glutamicum strain ATCC21513_17lysE::lysE deposited in the form of a pure culture under number DSM15037.     43.The Corynebacterium glutamicum strain ATCC21513_17zwa1::zwa1 deposited in the form of a pure culture under number DSM15038.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
