
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims  
   
 1. Bacterial artificial chromosome vector characterized in that it comprises essentially the entire genome of an EHV strain.  
 
     
 2. Artificial chromosome vector according to claim 1, characterized in that the EHV is EHV-1.  
 
     
 3. Artificial chromosome vector according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the EHV is EHV-4.  
 
     
 4. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 3, characterized in that the EHV strain is Races.  
 
     
 5. Artificial chromosome vector according to claim 4, chraterized in that it is the vector with the accession No. ECACC 01032704.  
 
     
 6. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 5, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gB.  
 
     
 7. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 6, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gC.  
 
     
 8. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 7, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gD.  
 
     
 9. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 8, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gE.  
 
     
 10. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 9, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gG.  
 
     
 11. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 10, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gH.  
 
     
 12. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 11, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gI.  
 
     
 13. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 12, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gK.  
 
     
 14. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 13, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gL.  
 
     
 15. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 14, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gM.  
 
     
 16. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 15, characterized in that the EHV strain is lacking the glycoprotein gp1/2.  
 
     
 17. Artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claim 1 to 16, characterized in that the artificial chromosome as deposited under accession number Q4297 at the ECACC.  
 
     
 18. Polynucleotide encoding an an artificial chromosome vector or EHV  contained therein according to any one of claims 1 to 17.  
 
     
 19. Use of an artificial chromosome vector or a polynucleotide according to any one of claims 1 to 18 for the generation of infectious EHV.  
 
     
 20. Method for the generation of replicating EHV, characterized in that an artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claims 1 to 19 is used to infect a suitable cell line and the shedded virus is collected and purified.  
 
     
 21. Method for the generation of an attenuated EHV, characterized in that the EHV sequence contained in an artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claims 1 to 17 is specifically modified by molecular biology techniques.  
 
     
 22. Method for the cloning and generation of an attenuated EHV, characterized in that the EHV sequence contained in an artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claims 1 to 17 is specifically modified by molecular biology techniques and contains a foreign sequence of another viral, bacterial or parasitic pathogen.  
 
     
 23. Method for the cloning and generation of a virulent EHV, characterized in that the EHV sequence contained in an artificial chromosome vector according to any one of claims 1 to 17 is specifically modified by molecular biology techniques.  
 
     
 24. EHV obtainable by a method according to any one of claims 20 to 23.  
 
     
 25. Pharmaceutical composition comprising a polynucleotide according to claim 18 and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients.  
 
     
 26. Pharmaceutical composition comprising an EHV according to claim 24 and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients.  
 
     
 27. Use of a polynucleotide according to claim 18 in the manufacture of a vaccine for the prevention and/or treatment of EHV infections.  
 
     
 28. Use of an EHV according to claim 24 in the manufacture of a vaccine for the prevention and/or treatment of EHV infections.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
