
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. Promoter comprising or consisting of a nucleotide sequence selected from the group comprising: (i) the nucleotide sequence of anyone of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 6, (ii) subsequences of the sequence according to anyone of SEQ ID: No. 1 to 6 and (iii) sequences having one or more nucleotide substitutions, deletions and/or insertions with respect to the sequences as defined in (i) or (ii), wherein the promoters are active as vaccinia virus promoters and/or active in vaccinia virus infected cells.  
 
     
 2. Promoter according to claim 2, wherein the subsequence is selected from the group comprising SEQ ID: 7 to 12  
 
     
 3. Expression cassette comprising a promoter according to anyone of claims 1 or 2 and a coding sequence, wherein the expression of the coding sequence is controlled by said promoter and wherein the expression cassette is not an expression cassette that naturally occurs in the genome of a vaccinia virus.  
 
     
 4. Expression cassette according to claim 3, wherein the coding sequence codes for therapeutic proteins or peptides, antigens, antigenic epitopes, antisense RNA or ribozymes.  
 
     
 5. DNA comprising the promoter according to anyone of claims 1 to 2 or the expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 and 4.  
 
     
 6. Vector comprising the promoter according to anyone of claims 1 to 2 or the expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 and 4.  
 
     
 7. Vector according to claim 6, selected from plasmid vectors and viral vectors.  
 
     
 8. Vector according to claim 7, wherein the viral vector is a vaccinia virus.  
 
     
 9. Vector according to claim 8, wherein the vaccinia virus is Modified Vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA), preferably strain MVA-BN deposited at the European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC) under number V00083008 or a derivative thereof, strain MVA 572 deposited at ECACC under number VA94012707 or strain MVA 575 deposited under number V00120707 at ECACC.  
 
     
 10. Vector according to claim 9, wherein the promoter according to anyone of claims 1 to 2 or the expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 and 4 is inserted in a naturally occurring deletion site of the MVA genome  
 
     
 11. Vector according to claim 9, wherein the promoter according to anyone of claims 1 to 2 or the expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 and 4 is inserted into a non-essential part of the viral genome or into an intergenic region of the viral genome.  
 
     
 12. Vector according to anyone of claims 6 to 11 as vaccine or medicament.  
 
     
 13. Vaccine or pharmaceutical composition comprising an expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 to 4, a DNA according to claim 5 or a vector according to anyone of claims 6 to 11.  
 
     
 14. Vaccine or pharmaceutical composition according to claim 13, comprising at least 10 2 TCID50 (tissue culture infectious dose) of the virus vector according to anyone of claims 8 to 11.  
 
     
 15. Vaccine or pharmaceutical composition according to claim 14, wherein the virus vector is administered in therapeutically effective amounts in a first inoculation ("priming inoculation") and in a second inoculation ("boosting inoculation").  
 
     
 16. Use of an expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 to 4, of a DNA according to claim 5 or of a vector according to anyone of claims 6 to 11 for the preparation of a vaccine or medicament.  
 
     
 17. Method for introducing a coding sequence into a target cell comprising the introduction of a vector according to anyone of claims 6 to 11, of a expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 to 4 or of a DNA according to claim 5 into the target cell.  
 
     
 18. Method for producing a peptide, protein and/or virus comprising infection of a host cell with the virus vector according to anyone of claims 7 to 11, cultivation of the infected host cell under suitable conditions, and isolation and/or enrichment of the peptide and/or protein and/or viruses produced by said host cell.  
 
     
 19. Method for producing a peptide, protein and/or virus comprising transfection of cells with an expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 to 4, the DNA according to claim 5 or the plasmid vector according to claim 7, infection of the cell with a vaccinia virus, cultivation of the infected host cell under suitable conditions, and isolation and/or enrichment of the peptide and/or protein and/or viruses produced by said host cell, wherein the step of infecting the veils with a vaccinia virus may be made before or after the step of transfection of the cells.  
 
     
 20. A cell containing the promoter according to anyone of claims 1 to 2, the expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 to 4, the DNA according to claim 5 or the virus vector according to anyone of claims 7 to 11.  
 
     
 21. Use of the promoter according to anyone of claims 1 to 2 for the expression of a coding sequence, wherein the coding sequence is not the sequence which is naturally linked to the promoter in a vaccinia virus.  
 
     
 22. Method for the production of a vector according to anyone of claims 6 to 11 comprising the step of inserting the expression cassette according to anyone of claims 3 to 4 into the vector genome.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
