
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A retrovirus packaging HEK cell line for the production of non-replicative retrovirus particles, said cell line being genetically transformed for stably expressing components required for assembly of non-replicative retrovirus particles capable of incorporation into the genome of a host cell and comprised of a nucleic acid encoding for a polypeptide of interest, wherein said retrovirus packaging cell line is cultured in suspension in a serum-free medium.  
 
     
 2. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 1 being selected from the group consisting of name cell line GP18 (Accession number 190803-01), GPA11 (Accession number 190803-02), and GPRD5 (Accession number 190803-03) athe International Depositary Authority of Canada.  
 
     
 3. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 1 being a human embryonic kidney cell line.  
 
     
 4. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 1, wherein said packaging cell line is composed of 293 cells.  
 
     
 5. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 1, components required for the assembly of said non-replicative retrovirus particle are expressed by a nucleic acid sequence comprising gag, pol and env genes.  
 
     
 6. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 5, wherein said env, gag and pol gene products are dissociated from psi (.PSI.) factor to avoid assembly of RNA encoding said gene products in said non-replicative retrovirus particle.  
 
     
 7. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 5, wherein said gag and pol gene products originate from murine Moloney leukemia virus.  
 
     
 8. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 5, wherein said env gene product originates from feline RD114 env gene  
 
     
 9. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid sequence is composed of RNA.  
 
     
 10. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid sequence of interest comprises a gene, a promoter or a combination thereof  
 
     
 11. The retrovirus packaging HEK cell line of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid is associated to a psi (.PSI.) factor to allow its encapsidation into said retrovirus particle.  
 
     
 12. A method for producing non-replicative retrovirus particles comprising maintaining HEK cells genetically transformed with replication defective retrovirus particles in suspension in a serum free culture medium in condition for allowing replication of said cells.  
 
     
 13. Use of the packaging HEK cell line of any of claims 1 to 11 in the preparation of a composition for ex-vivo gene therapy.  
 
     
 14. Use of the packaging HEK cell line of any of claims 1 to 11 in the production of non replicative retrovirus particles.  
 
     
 15. The use of claim 14, wherein said production is in vitro or in vivo.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
