
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A plant virus named Tomato Marchitez virus (ToMarV), deposited under depositors reference PRI-TMarV0601 on July 10, 2007 with the Deutsch Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen GmbH, in Braunschweig, Germany, the deposited material receiving the accession number DSM 19656.  
 
     
 2. A virus comprising at least one nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:15 and SEQ ID NO:16 and sequences having a nucleotide sequence homology of at least 80% thereto.  
 
     
 3. An isolated or recombinant nucleic acid or ToTV-specific fragment thereof comprising a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:15 and SEQ ID NO:16, sequences having a nucleotide sequence homology of at least 80% to SEQ ID NO:15 and SEQ ID NO:16, and their complementary strands and fragments thereof.  
 
     
 4. An expression vector comprising a nucleic acid according to claim 3.  
 
     
 5. A polynucleotide capable of hybridizing under stringent conditions to a nucleic acid according to claim 3.  
 
     
 6. An isolated or recombinant polypeptide obtainable from a virus according to claims 1 or 2, or a fragment thereof.  
 
     
 7. A polypeptide according to claim 6, wherein said polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of the 23, 26 and 35 kDa capsid proteins, the helicase, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and the putative movement protein (MP) of ToMarV and fragments thereof.  
 
     
 8. An antigen comprising a polypeptide according to claim 6 or 7.  
 
     
 9. An antibody specifically directed against the antigen according to claim 8 or virus according to claim 1 or 2.  
 
     
 10. A method for producing an antibody against a virus according to claim 1 or 2 comprising the steps of: a) providing the ToMarV virus of claim 1 or 2, or a protein or peptide fragment thereof; b) immunizing an appropriate vertebrate host with said virus, protein or peptide fragment, and c) harvesting from blood or splenocytes of said vertebrate host antibodies against said virus, protein or peptide fragment.  
 
     
 11. A method according to claim 10, further comprising the steps of selecting one antibody-producing splenocyte, fusing said splenocyte to an immortalized hybridoma cell line and allowing said hybridoma fusion to produce monoclonal antibodies.  
 
     
 12. A method for identifying a viral isolate as a virus according to claim 1 or 2 comprising reacting said viral isolate or a component thereof with a polynucleotide according to claim 5 or an antibody according to claim 9.  
 
     
 13. A method for detecting the presence of a virus according to claim 1 or 2 in a sample comprising determining in said sample the presence of a virus according to claim 1 or 2 or component thereof by reacting said sample with a polynucleotide according to claim 5 or an antibody according to claim 9.  
 
     
 14. A method for identifying a plant that is resistant to a virus according to claim 1 or 2, comprising the steps of: a) exposing a plant or plant part to an infective dosage of a virus according to claim 1 or 2, and b) identifying said plant as a resistant plant when, after said exposure, either - disease-symptoms in said plant or plant part remain absent or are delayed in expression or are at least reduced in severity or are localized relative to a susceptible control plant, and/or - a virus according to claim 1 or 2 or genomic sequences thereof are not present in said plant or plant part or the presence of the virus according to claim 1 or 2 is at least quantitatively reduced relative to a susceptible control plant.  
 
     
 15. A method according to claim 16, wherein in step b) the presence of a virus according to claim 1 or 2 in said plant or plant part is determined by performing a method according to claim 13.  
 
     
 16. A method of producing a plant that is resistant to a virus according to claim 1 or 2 comprising the steps of: a) identifying a plant that is resistant to a virus according to claim 1 or 2 as a donor plant by performing a method according to claim 14 or 15, , b) crossing said resistant donor plant with a recipient plant, and c) selecting from offspring plants a resistant plant by performing a method according to claim 14 or 15.  
 
     
 17. Method according to claim 18, wherein said donor plant is a plant of the family Solanaceae or Cucurbitaceae.  
 
     
 18. Method according to claim 16, wherein said donor plant is a tomato plant, an eggplant plant, a pepper plant, a melon plant, a watermelon plant or a cucumber plant.  
 
     
 19. Method according to any one of claims 16-18, wherein said recipient plant is a plant of the family Solanaceae or Cucurbitaceae.  
 
     
 20. Method according to any one of claims 16-18, wherein said recipient plant is a tomato plant, an eggplant plant, a pepper plant, a melon plant, a watermelon plant or a cucumber plant.  
 
     
 21. Method according to any one of claims 16-18, wherein said recipient plant is a tomato plant of the species Solanum lycopersicum, more preferably an S. lycopersicum line that possess commercially desirable characteristics.  
 
     
 22. Use of a virus according to any one of claims 1-2, its genome, or resistance-conferring parts thereof as antiviral agent.  
 
     
 23. Use of a virus according to any one of claims 1-2, or its genome, or parts thereof as expression vector.  
 
     
 24. Use of an attenuated form of a virus according to any one of claims 1-2, or its genome, or parts thereof, for premunition of a plant.     1. A plant virus named Tomato Marchitez virus (ToMarV), deposited under depositors reference PRI-TMarV0601 on July 10, 2007 with the Deutsch Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen GmbH, in Braunschweig, Germany, the deposited material receiving the accession number DSM 19656.      2. A virus comprising at least one nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:15 and SEQ ID NO:16 and sequences having a nucleotide sequence homology of at least 98% thereto.     3. An isolated or recombinant nucleic acid or ToTV-specific fragment thereof comprising a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:15 and SEQ ID NO:16, sequences having a nucleotide sequence homology of at least 98% to SEQ ID NO:15 and SEQ ID NO:16, and their complementary strands and fragments thereof.     4. An expression vector comprising a nucleic acid according to claim 3.     5. A polynucleotide capable of hybridizing under stringent conditions to a nucleic acid according to claim 3.     6. An isolated or recombinant polypeptide obtainable from a virus according to claims 1 or 2, or a fragment thereof.     7. A polypeptide according to claim 6, wherein said polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of the 23, 26 and 35 kDa capsid proteins, the helicase, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and the putative movement protein (MP) of ToMarV and fragments thereof.     8. An antigen comprising a polypeptide according to claim 6 or 7.     9. An antibody specifically directed against the antigen according to claim 8 or virus according to claim 1 or 2.     10. A method for producing an antibody against a virus according to claim 1 or 2 comprising the steps of: a) providing the ToMarV virus of claim 1 or 2, or a protein or peptide fragment thereof; b) immunizing an appropriate vertebrate host with said virus, protein or peptide fragment, and c) harvesting from blood or splenocytes of said vertebrate host antibodies against said virus, protein or peptide fragment.     11. A method according to claim 10, further comprising the steps of selecting one antibody-producing splenocyte, fusing said splenocyte to an immortalized hybridoma cell line and allowing said hybridoma fusion to produce monoclonal antibodies.     12. A method for identifying a viral isolate as a virus according to claim 1 or 2 comprising reacting said viral isolate or a component thereof with a polynucleotide according to claim 5 or an antibody according to claim 9.     13. A method for detecting the presence of a virus according to claim 1 or 2 in a sample comprising determining in said sample the presence of a virus according to claim 1 or 2 or component thereof by reacting said sample with a polynucleotide according to claim 5 or an antibody according to claim 9.     14. A method for identifying a plant that is resistant to a virus according to claim 1 or 2, comprising the steps of: a) exposing a plant or plant part to an infective dosage of a virus according to claim 1 or 2, and b) identifying said plant as a resistant plant when, after said exposure, either - disease-symptoms in said plant or plant part remain absent or are delayed in expression or are at least reduced in severity or are localized relative to a susceptible control plant, and/or - a virus according to claim 1 or 2 or genomic sequences thereof are not present in said plant or plant part or the presence of the virus according to claim 1 or 2 is at least quantitatively reduced relative to a susceptible control plant.     15. A method according to claim 16, wherein in step b) the presence of a virus according to claim 1 or 2 in said plant or plant part is determined by performing a method according to claim 13.     16. A method of producing a plant that is resistant to a virus according to claim 1 or 2 comprising the steps of:   a) identifying a plant that is resistant to a virus according to claim 1 or 2 as a donor plant by performing a method according to claim 14 or 15, b) crossing said resistant donor plant with a recipient plant, and c) selecting from offspring plants a resistant plant by performing a method according to claim 14 or 15.     17. Method according to claim 18, wherein said donor plant is a plant of the family Solanaceae or Cucurbitaceae.     18. Method according to claim 16, wherein said donor plant is a tomato plant, an eggplant plant, a pepper plant, a melon plant, a watermelon plant or a cucumber plant.     19. Method according to any one of claims 16-18, wherein said recipient plant is a plant of the family Solanaceae or Cucurbitaceae.     20. Method according to any one of claims 16-18, wherein said recipient plant is a tomato plant, an eggplant plant, a pepper plant, a melon plant, a watermelon plait or a cucumber plant.     21. Method according to any one of claims 16-18, wherein said recipient plant is a tomato plant of the species Solanum lycopersicum, more preferably an S. lycopersicum line that possess commercially desirable characteristics.    22. Use of a virus according to any one of claims 1-2, its genome, or resistance-conferring parts thereof as antiviral agent.     23. Use of a virus according to any one of claims 1-2, or its genome, or parts thereof as expression vector.     24. Use of an attenuated form of a virus according to any one of claims 1-2, or its genome, or parts thereof, for premunition of a plant.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
