
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A composition comprising: 1) one or more first cells modified to express a first hyper-cytokine, and  
 
     
 2) one or more second cells modified to express a second hyper-cytokine, wherein said second cells are different from said first cells.     2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the first and/or second hyper-cytokine is a fusion protein comprising a cytokine receptor and a cytokine.  
 
     
 3. The composition of claim 2, wherein the cytokine receptor is independently selected from (a) the group consisting of sIL-6R, sIL-11R, OSM-R, CNTF-R, and CT-I-R; or (b) a polypeptide exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to a polypeptide according to (a); and wherein the cytokine is independently selected from (c) the group consisting of IL-6, IL-11, OSM, CNTF, and CT-I; or (d) a polypeptide exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to a polypeptide according to (c), wherein the hyper-cytokine has hyper-cytokine activity.  
 
     
 4. The composition of claim 2 or 3, wherein the cytokine receptor and the cytokine are directly linked or linked by a peptide linker.  
 
     
 5. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the hyper-cytokine is a fusion protein comprising (a) an IL-6R part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human soluble receptor (sIL-6R), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from PI 13 to A323 of SEQ ID NO: 1, (b) an IL-6 part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human interleukin-6 (IL-6), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from P29 to M212 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and (c) optionally a peptide linker;     having hyper-cytokine activity or (a) an IL-11R part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human soluble receptor (AL-11R), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from M1 to Q365 of SEQ ID NO: 3, (b) an IL-11 part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human interleukin-11 (IL-11), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from A19 to L199 of SEQ ID NO: 4, and (c) optionally a peptide linker having hyper-cytokine activity.  
 
     
 6. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the hyper-cytokine is (a) a polypeptide having the amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID  NO: 6, SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO: 8 or SEQ ID NO: 9; or (b) a polypeptide exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to a polypeptide according to (a) and having hyper-cytokine activity.  
 
     
 7. The composition of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the first cell and/or the second cells are allogenic cells.  
 
     
 8. The composition of any one of claim 1 to 7, wherein the second cells have a different HLA type than the first cells.  
 
     
 9. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein at least one of the first cells and/or the second cells are tumour cells.  
 
     
 10. The composition of claim 9, wherein the tumour cells are s independently elected for the first and second cells from the group consisting of melanoma cells, renal carcinoma cells, prostate cancer cells, colon cancer cells, lung cancer cells, pancreas cancer cells, liver cancer cells, brain cancer cells, head and neck cancer cells, and sarcoma cells.  
 
     
 11. The composition of claim 9 or 10, wherein the first tumour cells are Michl, deposited under accession number DSM ACC2837 with the "Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen" (DSMZ) and the second tumour cells are Mich2, deposited under accession number DSM ACC2838 with DSMZ.  
 
     
 12. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the first cells are Michl-H6, deposited under accession number DSM ACC2839 with DSMZ.  
 
     
 13. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the second cells are Mich2-H6, deposited under accession number DSM ACC 2840 with DSMZ.  
 
     
 14. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the proliferation of the first and/or the second cells has been inhibited.  
 
     
 15. The composition of claim 14, wherein the proliferation has been inhibited by radioactive radiation or chemical cross-linking.  
 
     
 16. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 15 comprising one or more additional cells, which are different from the first and/or the second cells.  
 
     
 17. The composition of claim 16, wherein said one or more additional cells are one or more additional tumour cells.  
 
     
 18. The composition of claim 16 or 17, wherein the proliferation of the one or more additional cells has been inhibited.  
 
     
 19. The composition of claim 18, wherein the proliferation of the one or more additional cells has been inhibited by radioactive radiation or chemical cross-linking.  
 
     
 20. The composition according to any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein at least one cell of the one or more additional cells has been modified to express a cytokine, a cytokine receptor or a hypercytokine.  
 
     
 21. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 20 for use in medicine.  
 
     
 22. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 21 additionally comprising pharmaceutically acceptable diluents, carriers, excipients, fillers, binders, lubricants, glidants, disintegrants, adsorbents, and/or preservatives.  
 
     
 23. The composition according to any one of claims I to 21 or the pharmaceutical composition according to claim 22 for the treatment or prevention of cancer.  
 
     
 24. The composition or pharmaceutical composition of claim 23, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of gastrointestinal or colorectal tract, liver, pancreas, kidney, bladder, prostate, endometrium, head and neck cancer, ovary, testes, prostate, skin, eye, melanoma, dysplastic oral mucosa, invasive oral cancer, small cell and non-small cell lung cancer, hormone-dependent breast cancer, hormone independent breast cancer, transitional and squamous cell cancer, neurological malignancy, including neuroblastoma, endocrinological tumour, hematologic neoplasia, carcinoma in situ, hyperplastic lesion, adenoma, and fibroma.  
 
     
 25. The composition or pharmaceutical composition of claim 23 or 24, wherein the patient to be treated has a partially or completely different HLA type than the first cells and/or the second cells.  
 
     
 26. Use of a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 21 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment or prevention of cancer.  
 
     
 27. The use of claim 26, wherein the cancer is melanoma or renal cell, carcinoma, prostate cancer, colon cancer, lung cancer, pancreas cancer, liver cancer, brain cancer, head and neck cancer, or sarcoma.  
 
     
 28. The use of claim 26 or 27, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is for the treatment of a patient having a partially or completely different HLA type than the first allogenic cell and/or the second allogenic cell.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
