
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:  
   
 1.    A method for preparing artificial seeds which method includes: providing a source of plant seeds; subjecting the seed(s) to a surface sterilisation step; isolating seed embryo(s) from the surface-sterilised seed(s); and inoculating the embryo(s) with one or more symbionts and coating the inoculated embryo(s) with a coating to form artificial seed(s).  
 
     
 2.    The method according to claim 1, wherein the embryo(s) are inoculated with symbiont prior to coating.  
 
     
 3.    The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the embryo is directly inoculated with symbiont and wherein the symbiont is a fungal endophyte.  
 
     
 4.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the artificial seeds further include a second coating layer.  
 
     
 5.    The method according to claim 4, wherein the second coating layer includes added nutrients.  
 
     
 6.    The method according to claim 4, wherein the second coating layer is a nutrient deprived layer.  
 
     
 7.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the seeds are from a plant selected from the group consisting of grasses and legumes.  
 
     
 8.    The method according to claim 7, wherein the plant is a grass species.  
 
     
 9.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein a population of embryos is inoculated with a population of symbionts; so that favourable host-symbiont Date Recue/Date Received 2021-06-03 associations may be identified.  
 
     
 10.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the method further includes: growing the artificial seeds to form plantlets or seedlings; and screening the plantlets or seedlings for symbiont presence.  
 
     
 11.    The method according to claim 10, wherein the screening step includes screening artificial seeds and/or seeds of their offspring plants for compatibility and/or stability using an accelerated ageing step and selecting symbiota exhibiting desired characteristic(s).  
 
     
 12.    The method according to claim 11 further including subjecting the selected symbiota to a rapid endophyte viability assay.  
 
     
 13.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the symbiont is endophyte mycelium.  
 
     
 14.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the embryo is treated to create one or more points of entry for the symbiont.  
 
     
 15.    The method according to claim 1, wherein the seeds are from a plant selected from the group consisting of grasses and legumes, wherein the symbiont is a fungal endophyte, and wherein the coating is an alginate.  
 
     
 16.    The method according to claim 15, wherein the plant is a grass species.  
 
     
 17.    The method according to claim 16, wherein the plant is a perennial ryegrass or tall fescue. Date Recue/Date Received 2021-06-03  
 
     
 18.    The method according to any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the symbiont is endophyte mycelium.  
 
     
 19.    The method according to any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the coating is calcium alginate. Date Recue/Date Received 2021-06-03  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
