
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 1. A substance having both an effect of preventing or improving arthritis in a subject and the following characteristics (a) and (b): (a) the substance is obtained by disrupting an anti-inflammatory lactic acid bacterium and contains about 5-100% by mass of disrupted cells relative to the lactic acid bacterial cells before disruption; and (b) the substance has an effect of decreasing an expression level of IL-6 in a subject.  
 
     
 2. The substance according to claim 1, containing about 20-100% by mass of disrupted cells relative to the lactic acid bacterial cells before disruption.  
 
     
 3. The substance according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the average long diameter or surface area of each disrupted cell is 90% or less of that of the lactic acid bacterial cell before disruption.  
 
     
 4. The substance according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the substance has an effect of decreasing an expression level of IL-6 in the subject to 50% or less of that of the disrupted cells before use.  
 
     
 5. The substance according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the anti-inflammatory lactic acid bacterium is characterized in that the expression level of Adam1 5, Stat3, or Cd401g in the spleen tissue of an arthritis animal model satisfies at least one of the following conditions as a result of intake of the anti-inflammatory lactic acid bacterium: expression of Adam15: less than 0.7; expression of Stat3: 1.3 or more; and expression of Cd401g: less than 0.7, when the original expression level of Adam15, Stat3, or Cd401g in the spleen tissue of an arthritis animal model as a result of intake of a control non-anti-inflammatory substance is designated as 1.  
 
     
 6. The substance according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the disrupted cells have an effect of decreasing the expression level of FGF-basic in the subject compared with that before use of the disrupted cells.  
 
     
 7. The substance according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the disrupted cells are obtained by physical disruption, chemical treatment, or enzymatic lysis.  
 
     
 8. The substance according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the anti-inflammatory lactic acid bacterium is at least one bacterium belonging to a genus selected from the group consisting of the genera Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, Enterococcus, Leuconostoc, Streptococcus, Lactococcus, Pediococcus, and Weissella.  
 
     
 9. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Lactobacillus is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Lactobacillus amylovorus, Lactobacillus gasseri, Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus zeae, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus reuteri, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus crispatus, Lactobacillus gallinarum, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp.  bulgaricus, and Lactobacillus johnsonii.  
 
     
 10. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Bifidobacterium is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Bifidobacterium breve, Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium pseudolongum, Bifidobacterium animalis , Bifidobacterium adolescentis, Bifidobacterium bifidum, Bifidobacterium lactis, Bifidobacterium catenulatum, Bifidobacteriurn pseudocatenulatum, and Bifidobacterium magnum.  
 
     
 11. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Enterococcus is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium.  
 
     
 12. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Streptococcus is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Streptococcus thermophiles, Streptococcus lactis, Streptococcus diacetilactis, and Streptococcus faecalis .  
 
     
 13. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Leuconostoc is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Leuconostoc lactis.  
 
     
 14. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Lactococcus is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Lactococcus lactis, Lactococcus plantarum, and Lactococcus raffinolactis.  
 
     
 15. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Pediococcus is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Pediococcus pentosaceus and Pediococcus damnosus.  
 
     
 16. The substance according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium belonging to the genus Weissella is at least one bacterium selected from the group consisting of Weissella cibaria, Weissella confusa, Weissella halotolerans, Weissella hellenica, Weissella kandleri, Weissella kimchii, Weissella koreensis, Weissella minor, Weissella paramesenteroides, Weissella soli, Weissella thailandensis, and Weissella viridescens.  
 
     
 17 . The substance according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the arthritis is rheumatoid arthritis, knee osteoarthritis, tenosynonitis, periomarthritis, tendinitis, or coxitis.  
 
     
 18. A composition for preventing or improving arthritis, comprising the substance according to any one of claims 1 to 17.  
 
     
 19. The composition according to claim 18, further containing at least one known substance having an anti-inflammatory effect.  
 
     
 20. The composition according to claim 19, wherein the known substance having an anti-inflammatory effect is collagen, glucosamine, chondroitin, fatty acid, amino acid, or a salt thereof, or a combination thereof.  
 
     
 21. The composition according to claim 20, wherein the combination is with glucosamine or a salt thereof and chondroitin or a salt thereof  
 
     
 22. The composition according to any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein the arthritis is rheumatoid arthritis, knee osteoarthritis, tenosynonitis, periomarthritis, tendinitis, or coxitis.  
 
     
 48 .epsilon.23. A product, containing the substance of any one of claims 1 to 17 or the composition of any one of claims 18 to 22 as an active ingredient.  
 
     
 24. The product according to claim 23, which is a food or drink, a feedstuff, or a medicament.  
 
     
 25. A method for producing a product for improving a disease or disorder associated with articular inflammation, comprising incorporating the substance of any one of claims 1 to 17 or the composition of any one of claims 18 to 22 into a food or drink, a feedstuff, or a medicament.  
 
     
 26. A method for enhancing the effect of preventing or improving arthritis, comprising, upon production of a food or drink, a feedstuff, or a medicament for preventing or improving arthritis, incorporating the substance of any one of claims 1 to 17 and at least one known substance having an anti-inflammatory effect.  
 
     
 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the known substance having the anti-inflammatory effect is collagen, glucosamine, chondroitin, a fatty acid, an amino acid, or a salt thereof, or a combination of any thereof.  
 
     
 28. The method according to claim 27, wherein the combination is of glucosamine or a salt thereof, and, chondroitin or a salt thereof.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
