
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:  
   
 1.    A method for isolating, selecting and/or characterising an endophyte strain, said method including: providing samples of plant material from plant species of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex; subjecting said samples to metagenomic analysis; identifying bacterial and/or fungal operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in each Brachiaria-Urochoa plant species; comparing the OTUs present in each sample species to identify core, supplemental and/or unique microbiomes; and selecting endophyte strains representing a desired core, supplemental or unique rnicrobiome.  
 
     
 2.    A method according to claim 1, wherein the plant species of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex is selected from the group consisting of: Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiarra humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachiaria ruziziensis, Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosambicensis, Brachiaria marlothii, Brachiaria nigropedata. Urochloa dictyoneura, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Brachiaria obtusiflora, Brachiaria serrifolia, Urochloa advena, Urochloa arrecta, Urochloa brachyura, Urochloa eminii, Urochloa moth's, Urochloa xantholeuca, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Urochloa plantaginea, Urochloa platynota,Urochloa xantholeuca, Brachiaria holosericea, Brachiaria reptans, Brachiaria milliformis, Brachiaria distachya and interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex.  
 
     
 3.    A method according to claim 2, wherein the plant species of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex is selected from the group consisting of: Brachoria brizantha, Brachiarta decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria ruziziensis and Urochloa mosambicensis.  
 
     
 4.    A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the samples of plant material are selected from one or more of the group consisting of leaf, stem and root material.  
 
     
 5.    A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the samples of plant material are seed material.  
 
     
 6.    A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the step of providing samples of plant material from plant species of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex includes the steps of: grinding the plant material; washing the ground plant material with alcohol; and extracting nucleic acid from the alcohol wash.  
 
     
 7.    A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the metagenomic analysis includes recovering and analysing genetic material from the samples of plant material to produce bacterial and/or fungal sequence data.  
 
     
 8.    A method according to claim 7, wherein the sequence data is produced using universal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers directed to either or both of the V4 region of the 16S rDNA gene and the ITS2 region of rDNA genes.  
 
     
 9.    A method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the selected endophyte strains representing a desired core, supplemental or unique microbiome are those that provide beneficial properties in the plant with which the endophyte is associated.  
 
     
 10.    A method according to claim 9, wherein the beneficial properties in the plant with which the endophyte is associated are improved tolerance to water and/or nutrient stress or improved resistance to pests and/or diseases_  
 
     
 11.    A method according to claim 9, wherein the beneficial properties in the plant with which the endophyte is associated is the production of a fusicoccane compound.  
 
     
 12.    A method according to claim 11 where the fusicoccane compound is brachialactone.  
 
     
 13.    A substantially purified or isolated endophyte isolated, selected and/or characterised by the method of any one of claims 1 to 12.  
 
     
 14.    A substantially purified or isolated endophyte selected from the group consisting of Hypocrea sp./Acremonium sp. 2.15.A.2, Acremonium sp. 2.3.C. 1, Microsphaeropsis arundis 2.10.D.1, Sarocladium sp./Acremonium sp. 2.12. 6.1, Sarocladrum sp./Acremonium sp. 2.10.C.2 and Sarocladium sp./Acremonium sp. 2.11.13.1, as deposited at the National Measurement Institute with accession numbers V15/028237, V15/028238, V15/028239, V15/028240, V15/028241 and V15/028242, respectively.  
 
     
 15.    A plant inoculated with one or more endophytes according to claim 13 or 14, said plant comprising an endophyte-free host plant stably infected with said endophyte.  
 
     
 16.    An inoculated plant according to claim 15, which has beneficial properties when compared with an uninoculated control plant, said beneficial properties being improved tolerance to water and/or nutrient stress or improved resistance to pests and/or diseases.  
 
     
 17.    An inoculated plant according to claim 15, which has beneficial properties when compared with an uninoculated control plant, said beneficial properties being the production of a fusicoccane compound.  
 
     
 18.    An inoculated plant according to claim 17, wherein the fusicoccane compound is brachialactone.  
 
     
 19.    An inoculated plant according to any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the plant is a grass species plant.  
 
     
 20.    An inoculated plant according to claim 19, wherein the grass species plant is selected from the group consisting of Brachraria brizantha, Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachoria ruziziensis, B.  dictyoneura, Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosambicensis, interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex, and those belonging to the genera Lolium, Festuca, Triticum, Hordeum, Sorghum, Zea, Oryza, Saccharum, Paspalum, Miscanthus, Panicum, Pennisetum, Poa, Eragrostis and Agrostis.  
 
     
 21.    A plant infected with an endophyte according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the plant is infected by a method selected from the group consisting of: inoculation, breeding, crossing, hybridisation, transduction, transfection, transformation and/or gene targeting; and combinations thereof.  
 
     
 22.    A plant, plant seed or other plant part derived from a plant according to claim 15 or 21.  
 
     
 23.    Use of an endophyte according to claim 13 or 14 to produce a plant stably infected with said endophyte.  
 
     
 24.    A method of increasing resistance to pests and/or diseases in a plant, said method including inoculating said plant with an endophyte according to claim 13 or 14.  
 
     
 25.    A method of producing a fusicoccane, said method including: isolating an endophyte from a plant of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex;    growing said endophyte in a suitable culture medium; and recovering one or more organic compounds including the fusicoccane from endophyte cells, from the culture medium, or from air space associated with the culture medium or endophyte.  
 
     
 26.    A method according to claim 25, wherein the endophyte is an endophyte according to claim 13 or 14.  
 
     
 27.    A method according to claim 25 or 26, wherein the fusicoccane is brachialactone.  
 
     
 28.    A method according to any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein the plant of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex is selected from the group consisting of:  Brachiaria brizantha. Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachiaria ruziziensis. Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosambicensis, Brachiaria marlothii, Brachiaria nigropedata, Urochloa dictyoneura, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Brachiaria obtusiflora, Brachiaria serrifolia, Urochloa advena, Urochloa arrecta, Urochloa brachyura. Urochloa eminii, Urochloa mollis, Urochloa xanthoteuca, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Urochioa plantaginea, Urochloa platynota,Urochloa xantholeuca, Brachiaria holosericea, Brachraria reptans, Brachiaria milliformis, Brachiaria distachya and interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex.  
 
     
 29.    A fusicoccane when produced by a method according to any one of claims 25 to 28.  
 
     
 30.    A method of producing a fusicoccane in a plant of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex, said method including: providing a plant of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex and an endophyte;  infecting said plant with said endophyte to form a symbiota; and growing the symbiota in a suitable culture medium, so that the fusicoccane is produced.  
 
     
 31.    A method according to claim 30, wherein the endophyte is an endophyte according to claim 13 or 14.  
 
     
 32.    A method according to claim 30 or 31, wherein the fusicoccane is brachialactone.  
 
     
 33.    A method according to any one of claims 30 to 32, wherein the plant of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex is selected from the group consisting of:  Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachiaria ruziziensis, Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosambicensis, Brachiaria marlothii, Brachiaria nigropedata, Urochloa dictyoneura, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Brachiaria obtusiflora, Brachiaria serrifolia, Urochloa advena, Urochloa arrecta, Urochloa brachyura, Urochloa eminii, Urochloa mollis, Urochloa xantholeuca, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Urochloa plantaginea, Urochloa platynota,Urochloa xantholeuca, Brachiaria holosericea, Brachiaria reptans, Brachiaria milliformis, Brachiaria distachya and interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex.  
 
     
 34.    A fusicoccane when produced by a method according to any one of claims 30 to 33.  
 
     
 35    A method of inoculating a plant of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex with one or more endophytes, said method including: providing sterilised seed of the plant of the Brachrana-Urochoa species complex;  germinating the seed under aseptic conditions to produce host plants that are substantially free of microbial organisms; and inoculating the host plants with the one or more endophytes.  
 
     
 36    A method according to claim 35, wherein the endophyte is an endophyte according to claim 13 or 14.  
 
     
 37.    A method according to claim 35 or 36, wherein the plant of the Brachiaria-Urochoa species complex is selected from the group consisting of: Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachiaria ruziziensis, Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosarnbicensis, Brachiaria marlothii, Brachiaria nigropedata, Urochloa dictyoneura, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Brachiaria obtusitiora, Brachiana serrifotia, Urochloa advena, Urochioa arrecta, Urochloa brachyura. Urochloa em,nii, UrDchioa morns, Urochloa xantholeuca, Urochloa oligotricha, Urochloa panicoides, Urochioa plantaginea, Urochloa platynota, Urochloa xantholeuca, Brach/aria holosencea, Brachrana reptans, Brachiana milliformis, Brachiaria distachya and interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex.  
 
     
 38.    A method according to any one of claims 35 to 37, wherein inoculation frequency is between approximately 75% and approximately 100%.  
 
     
 39.    A method according to any one of claims 35 to 38, wherein germinating the seed under aseptic conditions to produce host plants includes growing the germinated seed on shoot multiplication medium and root multiplication medium.  
 
     
 40.    A method according to claim 39, further including splitting shoots grown on shoot multiplication medium into single tillers and transferring them to root multiplication medium.  
 
     
 41.    A method according to claim 40, further including growing single tillers on the root multiplication medium for approximately 1 to approximately 6 weeks to promote root growth.  
 
     
 42.    A method according to any one of claims 35 to 41, wherein inoculating the host plants with the one or more endophytes includes removal of the outer sheath to reveal shoot initial, creation of a wound in the shoot meristem and inoculation into the wound.  
 
     
 43.    A method according to any one of claims 35 to 42, further including retaining plantlets on sterile media following inoculation for a period of approximately 1 to approximately 6 weeks.  
 
     
 44.    A method according to any one of claims 35 to 43, further including transferring the inoculated plants to soil or similar medium for further growth.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
