
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  36  
   
 1.    A P. salmonis isolate, wherein said isolate is selected from the group consisting of: a) a P. salmonis isolate ID8079 deposited under the Budapest Treaty with the Leibniz Institute DSMZ-German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) on 6th of June 2013 under deposit number DSM 27338; and b) a P sabnonis isolate having substantially the same genotypic and phenotypic characteristics as the P. salmonis isolate of a).  
 
     
 2.    A P. sabnonis isolate according to claim 1, said isolate being obtainable from isolate deposited under the Budapest Treaty with the Leibniz Institute DSMZ-German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) on 6th of June 2013 under deposit number DSM 27338.  
 
     
 3.    A P. salmonis isolate according to any of the above claims growing on a medium comprising tryptic soy agar, sea salt, animal blood, cysteine, glucose, fetal serum derived from animal blood, and ferric nitrate at a temperature of about 8 °C  to 25°C, preferably 16 °C to 22°C, and testing positive for .alpha.-glucosidase and .beta. -glucosidase.  
 
     
 4.    A vaccine comprising a P. salmonis isolate according to any of the claims 1-3.  
 
     
 5.    A vaccine according to claim 4 comprising an inactivated or attenuated form of the isolate according to any of the claims 1-3.  
 
     
 6.    A vaccine according to claims 4-5, further comprising one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.  
 
     
 7.    A vaccine according to clairns 4-6, further comprising an adjuvant.  
 
     
 8.    A vaccine according to any of the claims 4-7, further comprising one or more biological agents useful in providing protection against other fish pathogens than P.  salmonis.  
 
     
 9. A vaccine according to claim 8, wherein the biological agent is selected from the group consisting of whole cells, killed and/or attenuated virus or bacteria, protein extracts isolated from a fish pathogen other than P.salmonis, isolated or recombinant antigens, DNA vaccines, and/or mixtures thereof.  
 
     
 10.    A vaccine according to claim 8, wherein the said fish pathogens other than P. scdmonis is selected from the groups consisting of a) live, attenuated or inactivated fish virus selected from the group consisting of Infectious Hematopoietic Necrosis Virus (IHNV), Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis Virus (IPNV), Infectious Salmon Anemia Virus (ISAV), Salmon Pancreatic virus (SAV), Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSC), Cardiomyopathy Syndrom Virus (CMSV) b) live, attenuated or inactivated bacteria selected from the group consisting of Aeromonas sp., Bifidobacterium sp., Brevibacterium sp., Cytophaga sp., Edwarsiella sp., Flavobacterium sp., Francisella sp., Lactococcus sp., Leuconostoc sp., Listonella sp. Moritella viscose, Mycobacterium sp.  Nocardia sp., Pediococcus sp., Photobacterium damsel, Pseudumonas sp., Renibacterium sp., Rhodococcus sp., Streptococcus sp., Vibrio sp., and Yersinia sp..  
 
     
 11.    A vaccine according to any of the claim 4-9, wherein the vaccine is formulated for administration to fish, more preferably a salmonid, by a route selected from the group consisting of intraperitoneal injection, intramuscular injection, immersion, bath or by oral administration.  
 
     
 12.    A P. salmonis isolate according to any of the claims 1-4 for use in a pharmaceutical formulation.  
 
     
 13.    A P. salmonis isolate according to any of the claims 1-4 for use in a vaccine.  
 
     
 14.    A method for preventing P. salmonis infection in fish comprising the step of administering a vaccine according to any of the claims 5-11 to a fish in need thereof.  
 
     
 15.    Growth medium, comprising tryptic soy agar, animal blood, cysteine, glucose, fetal serum derived from animal blood, and ferric nitrate.  
 
     
 16.    Growth medium according to claim 15, comprising sea salt.  
 
     
 17.    Growth medium according to any of the claims 15 - 16, comprising ovine blood.  
 
     
 18.    Growth medium according to claim 16, comprising defibrinated ovine blood.  
 
     
 19.    Growth medium according to claim 15-18, comprising tryptic soy agar, defibrinated ovine blood, red sea salt, cysteine, glucose, serum derived from animal blood, and ferric nitrate  
 
     
 20.    Growth medium according to claim any of the claims 15-19, comprising about 15 ¨ 25 g sea salt per L medium.  
 
     
 21.    Growth medium according to any of the claims 15-20, comprising at least g cysteine per L medium.  
 
     
 22.    Growth medium according to any of the claims 15-21, comprising 6 g glucose per L medium.  
 
     
 23.                                                               Growth medium according to any of the claims 15-22, comprising per L medium: 40 g Tryptic Soy Agar 15 ¨ 25 g Red Sea Salt 50 ml Defibrinated Sheep Blood 1 g L-cysteine 6 g D-glucose 50 ml Fetal Bovine Serum 0.2 mM Fe(NO3)3.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
