
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What is claimed is:  
   
 1. A bacterial inoculant for controlling a fungal root disease on a wheat or canola plant.  
 
     
 2. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 1 wherein the fungal root disease is caused by a pathogen of the genus Rhizoctonia.  
 
     
 3. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 2 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Paenibacillus.  
 
     
 4. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 2 or 3 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3.  
 
     
 5. A bacterial inoculant according to any one of claims 2, 3, or 4 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes microorganism Paenibacillus sp. 10.6D as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004922; or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to control a fungal root disease in a wheat or canola plant.  
 
     
 6. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 2 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces.  
 
     
 7. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 2 or 6 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 5.  
 
     
 8. A bacterial inoculant according to any one of claims 2, 6 or 7 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes microorganism Streptomyces sp. HCA1273 as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004924; or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to control a fungal root disease in a wheat or canola plant.  
 
     
 9. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 1 wherein the fungal root disease is caused by a pathogen of the genus Pythium.  
 
     
 10. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 9 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Paenibacillus.  
 
     
 11. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 9 or 10 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4.  
 
     
 12. A bacterial inoculant according to any one of claims 9, 10 or 11 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes microorganism Paenibacillus sp. 9.4E as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004921; or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to control a fungal root disease in a wheat or canola plant.  
 
     
 13. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 9 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces.  
 
     
 14. A bacterial inoculant according to claim 9 or 13 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 6.  
 
     
 15. A bacterial inoculant according to any one of claims 9, 13 or 14 wherein the bacterial inoculant includes microorganism Streptomyces sp. BD141 as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004923; or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to control a fungal root disease in a wheat or canola plant.  
 
     
 16. An inoculant composition comprising a bacterial inoculant according to any one of claims 1 to 15.  
 
     
 17.    An inoculant composition according to claim 16 wherein the inoculant composition comprises a seed dressing.  
 
     
 18. A method for controlling a fungal root disease on a wheat or canola plant, the method comprising inoculating a wheat or canola plant with a bacterial inoculant or inoculant composition according to any one of claims 1 to 17.  
 
     
 19.    A method according to claim 18 wherein the fungal root disease is caused by a pathogen of the genus Rhizoctonia.  
 
     
 20.    A method according to claim 18 wherein the fungal root disease is caused by a pathogen of the genus Pythium.  
 
     
 21.    A method according to any one of claims 18, 19 or 20 wherein the bacterial inoculant or inoculant composition are inoculated onto a wheat or canola seed.  
 
     
 22.    A bacterial inoculant according to claim 1 as herein before described with respect to any of the examples.  
 
     
 23.    An inoculant composition according to claim 16 as hereinbefore described with respect to any of the examples.  
 
     
 24.    A method according to claim 18 as herein before described with respect to any of the examples.  
 
     
 25.    A bacterial inoculant for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Paenibacillus having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4.  
 
     
 26.    A bacterial inoculant for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Paenibacillus sp. 9.4E as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004921; or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to improve growth in a canola plant under water limited conditions.  
 
     
 27. A bacterial inoculant for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98%  identical to SEQ ID NO: 6.  
 
     
 28.    A bacterial inoculant for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, wherein the bacterial inoculant includes a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces sp. BD141 as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004923; or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to improve growth in a canola plant under water limited conditions.  
 
     
 29.    An inoculant composition comprising a bacterial inoculant according to any one of claims 25 to 28.  
 
     
 30.    An inoculant composition according to claim 29 wherein the inoculant composition comprises a seed dressing.  
 
     
 31.    A method for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, the method comprising inoculating a canola plant with a bacterial inoculant or inoculant composition comprising a microorganism of the genus Paenibacillus having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98%    identical to SEQ ID NO: 4.  
 
     
 32.    A method for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, the method comprising inoculating a canola plant with a bacterial inoculant or inoculant composition comprising a microorganism of the genus Paenibacillus sp. 9.4E as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004921; or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to improve growth in a canola plant under water limited conditions.  
 
     
 33. A method for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, the method comprising inoculating a canola plant with a bacterial inoculant or inoculant composition comprising a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces having a 16S rRNA gene nucleotide sequence which is at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 6.  
 
     
 34.    A method for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions, the method comprising inoculating a canola plant with a bacterial inoculant or inoculant composition comprising a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces sp. BD141 as deposited under NMI accession number V17/004923;  or a mutant or derivative of said deposited microorganism that retains the ability to improve growth in a canola plant under water limited conditions.  
 
     
 35.    A method according to any one of claims 31 to 34 wherein the bacterial inoculant or inoculant composition are inoculated onto a canola seed.  
 
     
 36.    A bacterial inoculant for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions as hereinbefore described with respect to any of the examples.  
 
     
 37.    An inoculant composition for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions as hereinbefore described with respect to any of the examples.  
 
     
 38.    A method for improving growth of a canola plant under water limited conditions as hereinbefore described with respect to any of the examples.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
