
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What is claimed is:  
   
 1. A method for determining a profile of secondary structure of alpha-synuclein in a sample, comprising: a. introducing the sample into a cell comprising an infrared source, an infrared sensor element linked to an antibody to an epitope within residues 40-55, 91-97, or 118-123 of alpha-synuclein, and an infrared detector, whereby alpha-synuclein in the sample binds to the antibody on the surface of the infrared sensor element; b. submitting an infrared beam from the infrared source through the infrared sensor to the infrared detector to obtain an infrared spectrum characterizing the alpha-synuclein of the sample; and c. analyzing the obtained infrared spectrum to determine a secondary structure profile of the alpha-synuclein in the sample.  
 
     
 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the secondary structure profile provides an indication of the proportion of alpha-synuclein in aggregated form and/or extent of aggregation of alpha-synuclein in aggregated form.  
 
     
 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises analyzing the shift of an amide I band maximum of alpha-synuclein to determine the secondary structure of alpha-synuclein, an amide I band maximum frequency of 1646 cm-1 indicating monomeric alpha-synuclein and a lower amide I band maximum frequency of alpha-synuclein indicating aggregated alpha-synuclein.  
 
     
 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises comparing the obtained infrared spectrum with a spectrum of alpha-synuclein with a known secondary structure and/or with a known concentration.  
 
     
 5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the infrared sensor element comprises a germanium internal reflection element of trapezoid or parallelogram shape transparent in the infrared with sufficient signal to noise ratio to detect an amide I band.  
 
     
 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the antibodies are linked to the infrared sensor by silane or thiol linkers.  
 
     
 7.    The method of any preceding claim further comprises: (i) detecting a signal, parallel to the infrared analysis, by another optical method, including UV/Vis-fluorescence, at different wavelengths; and/or (ii) combining immuno-ATR-IR vibrational spectroscopy with parallel fluorescence spectroscopy.  
 
     
 8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the antibody is 23E8, or an antibody having the CDRs of 23E8.  
 
     
 9. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the antibody is 1117 or an antibody having the CDRs of 1H7.  
 
     
 10. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the antibody is MJFR1 or an antibody having the CDRs of MJFR1.  
 
     
 11. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the sample is from a subject.  
 
     
 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the sample is from a human.  
 
     
 13. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the sample is from a transgenic mouse with a transgene expressing human alpha-synuclein.  
 
     
 14. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the sample is a body fluid.  
 
     
 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the sample is cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or blood of a human.  
 
     
 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the human has a Lewy body disease.  
 
     
 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the human has Parkinson's disease.  
 
     
 18. The method of claim 16 or 17, wherein the human is receiving immunotherapy for the disease.  
 
     
 19. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the sample is a brain homogenate of a human or transgenic animal.  
 
     
 20. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the sample is a medium used to culture cells.  
 
     
 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the cells express recombinant human alpha-synuclein.  
 
     
 22. The method of any preceding claim performed multiple times on samples from the same subject to detect changes in profile over time.  
 
     
 23. The method of claim 18, wherein the human is receiving a regime of immunotherapy and the regime changes in response to changes in the profile over time.  
 
     
 24. The method of claim 2, wherein the sample is from a patient with Parkinson's disease, and the amide I band maximum frequency of the sample occurs below 1646 cm-1 indicating aggregated alpha-synuclein.  
 
     
 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the patient has prodromal Parkinson's disease.  
 
     
 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the patient has mild Parkinson's disease.  
 
     
 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the patient has moderate Parkinson's disease.  
 
     
 28. The method of claim 24, wherein the patient has advanced Parkinson's disease.  
 
     
 29. The method of any preceding claim, performed on a population of subjects, wherein a greater proportion of subjects with a level of the amide I band maximum frequency of alpha-synuclein below a threshold receive treatment for Parkinson's disease than subjects in which the level of the amide I band maximum frequency of alpha-synuclein is above the threshold.  
 
     
 30. The method of claim 29, the threshold of the amide I band maximum frequency is 1643 cm .  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
