
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims:  
   
 1.    A recombinant bacterium that constitutively produces monophosphoryl lipid A (MLA) not conjugated to 2 -keto-3 -deoxy-D-manno-octulosonate (Kdo) moiety, wherein the bacterium comprises a genetic modification that increases the copy number of a gene encoding Lipid A 1-phosphatase (LpxE) polypeptide, a genetic modification in at least one of an exogenous polynucleotide encoding LpxE polypeptide, or a genetic modification in a 5'-non-coding sequence or a 3'-non-coding sequence for an endogenous polynucleotide encoding a LpxE polypeptide, as compared to the corresponding unmodified bacterial cell, and a chromosome of the bacterium comprises a disruption in a polynucleotide that encodes an undecaprenyl pyrophosphate phosphatase (Und-PP phosphatase),a disruption in a polynucleotide that encodes a phosphatidylglycerophosphate phosphatase (PGP phosphatase), and a disruption in a polynucleotide that encodes a KdtA polypeptide, wherein the polynucleotide that encodes the Und-PP phosphatase is a bacA gene, a pgpB gene, a ybjG gene, or a combination thereof, wherein the polynucleotide that encodes the PGP phosphatase is a pgpB gene, a pgpA gene, a pgpC gene, or a combination thereof, wherein the bacterium is a Gram-negative bacterium.  
 
     
 2.    The bacterium of claim 1, wherein the MLA comprise s 1 -depho spho -lipid A, 1 -dephospho-tetra-acylated lipid A, 1 -dephospho-penta-acylated lipid A, or a combination thereof.  
 
     
 3.    The bacterium of claim 1, wherein a polynucleotide that encodes the LpxE  polypeptide is present in the chromosome of the bacterium.  
 
     
 4.    The bacterium of claim 1, wherein the bacterium comprises a disruption in a bacA gene, a disruption in a pgpB gene, and a disruption in a ybjG gene.  
 
     
 5.    The bacterium of claim 1, wherein the disruption is a deletion, an insertion, a point mutation, a Date recue / Date received 2021-11-25 frame shift mutation, or a combination thereof  
 
     
 6.    The bacterium of claim 5, wherein the point mutation is a missense mutation or a nonsense mutation.  
 
     
 7.    The bacterium of claim 1, wherein the bacterium further comprises a polynucleotide that encodes a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of an LpxL  polypeptide, an LpxM polypeptide, or a combination thereof  
 
     
 8.    The bacterium of claim 7, wherein the polynucleotide is inducible or constitutively expressed.  
 
     
 9.    The bacterium of claim 7, wherein the polynucleotide is expressed by a promoter selected from the group consisting of a PL promoter, a PR promoter, and a PR' promoter. .    The bacterium of claim 1, further comprising a dismption in a polynucleotide that encodes an  
 
     
 LpxT polypeptide, a disruption in a polynucleotide that encodes a PagP  polypeptide, or a combination thereof  
 
     
 11.    The bacterium of claim 1, wherein the bacterium produces the MLA  without induction of expression by an expression inducer, an expression-inducing stimulus, or a combination thereof  
 
     
 12.    The bacterium of claim 11, wherein the expression inducer is isopropyl thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG).  
 
     
 13.    The bacterium of claim 1, wherein the bacterium produces the MLA in the presence of or in the absence of antibiotics.  
 
     
 14.    A method of producing monophosphoryl lipid A (MLA) not conjugated to Kdo moiety, the method comprising: culturing the bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 13 to obtain a culture; collecting the bacterium from the culture; and isolating MLA not conjugated to Kdo moiety from the collected bacteria.  
 
     
 15.    The method of claim 14, wherein the culturing of the bacterium is performed without an Date recue / Date received 2021-11-25 expression inducer, an expression-inducing stimulus, or a combination thereof  
 
     
 16.                                                                          The method of claim 14, wherein the culturing of the bacterium is performed in the presence of or in the absence of antibiotics. Date recue / Date received 2021-11-25  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
