
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:  
   
 1.    A substantially purified or isolated endophyte strain isolated from a plant of the Poaceae family, wherein said endophyte is a strain of Pseudomonas poae which provides bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotypes to plants into which it is inoculated.  
 
     
 2.    An endophyte according to claim 1, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype includes production of a bioprotectant compound in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 3.    An endophyte according to claim 2, wherein the bioprotectant compound is poaeamide or a derivative, isomer and/or salt thereof.  
 
     
 4.    An endophyte according to claim 1, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype is selected from the group consisting of production of organic acids, solubilisation of phosphate and nitrogen fixation in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 5.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the endophyte is Pseudomonas poae strain EY as deposited with The National Measurement Institute on 17t1 May 2019 with accession number V19/009907.  
 
     
 6.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the plant from which the endophyte is isolated is of the Poaceae family is a pasture grass.  
 
     
 7.    An endophyte according to claim 6, wherein the pasture grass is from the genus Lolium or Festuca.  
 
     
 8.    An endophyte according to claim 7, wherein the pasture grass is from the species Lolium perenne or Festuca arundinaceum.  
 
     
 9.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated includes an endophyte-free host plant or part thereof stably infected with said endophyte.  
 
     
 10.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is an agricultural plant species selected from one or more of forage grass, turf grass, bioenergy grass, grain crop and industrial crop.  
 
     
 11.    An endophyte according claim 10, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a forage, turf or bioenergy grass selected from the group consisting of those belonging to the genera Lolium and Festuca, including L. perenne (perennial ryegrass), L.  arundinaceum (tall fescue) and L. multiflorum (Italian ryegrass), and those belonging to the Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex (panic grasses), including Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachiaria ruziziensis, B. dictyoneura, Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosambicensis as well as interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex such as interspecific hybrids between Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria decumbens, [Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria decumbens] x Brachiaria brizantha, [Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria brizantha] x Brachiaria decumbens.  
 
     
 12.    An endophyte according claim 10, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a grain crop or industrial crop selected from the group consisting of those belonging to the genus Triticum, including T. aestivum (wheat), those belonging to the genus Hordeum, including H. vulgare (barley), those belonging to the genus Avena, including A.sativa (oats), those belonging to the genus Zea, including Z. mays (maize or corn), those belonging to the genus Oryza, including O. sativa (rice), those belonging to the genus Saccharum including S. officinarum (sugarcane), those belonging to the genus Sorghum including S. bicolor (sorghum), those belonging to the genus Panicum, including P. virgatum (switchgrass), those belonging to the genera Miscanthus, Paspalum, Pennisetum, Poa, Eragrostis and Agrostis,  
 
     
 13.    An endophyte according to claim 10, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a grain crop or industrial crop selected from the group consisting of wheat, barley, oats, chickpeas, triticale, fava beans, lupins, field peas, canola, cereal rye, vetch, lentils, millet/panicum, safflower, linseed, sorghum, sunflower, maize, canola, mungbeans, soybeans, and cotton.  
 
     
 14.    A plant or part thereof infected with one or more endophytes according to any one of claims 1 to 13.  
 
     
 15.    A plant, plant seed or other plant part derived from a plant or part thereof according to claim 14 and stably infected with said one or more endophytes.  
 
     
 16.    Use of an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13 to produce a plant or part thereof stably infected with said one or more endophytes.  
 
     
 17.    A bioprotectant compound produced by an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13, or a derivative, isomer and/or a salt thereof, preferably the bioprotectant compound is poaeamide or derivative, isomer and/or salt thereof.  
 
     
 18.    A method for producing a bioprotectant compound, or a derivative, isomer and/or a salt thereof, said method including infecting a plant with an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13 and cultivating the plant under conditions suitable to produce the bioprotectant compound.  
 
     
 19.    A method for producing a bioprotectant compound, or a derivative, isomer and/or a salt thereof, said method including culturing an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13 under conditions suitable to produce the bioprotectant compound.  
 
     
 20.    A method according to claim 19, wherein the conditions include a culture medium including a source of carbohydrates.  
 
     
 21.    A method according to claim 20, wherein the source of carbohydrates is selected from one or more of the group consisting of a starch/sugar-based agar or broth, a cereal-based agar or broth, endophyte agar, Murashige and Skoog with 20% sucrose, half V8 juice/half PDA, water agar and yeast malt extract agar.  
 
     
 22.    A method according to any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein the method further includes isolating the bioprotectant compound from the plant or culture medium.  
 
     
 23.    A method of providing bioprotection to a plant against bacterial and/or fungal pathogens and/or providing biofertilizer to a plant, said method including infecting the plant with and endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13 and cultivating the plant.  
 
     
 24.    A method according to claim 23, wherein the method includes providing bioprotection to the plant and includes production of a bioprotectant compound in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 25.    A method according to claim 24, wherein the bioprotectant compound is poaeamide or a derivative, isomer and/or salt thereof.  
 
     
 26.    A method according to claim 23, wherein the method includes providing biofertilizer to the plant and includes production of organic acids, increased phosphate use efficiency, increased solubilisation of phosphate, increased nitrogen use efficiency and/or increased nitrogen availability, in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 27.    A method according to claim 26, wherein the method includes increasing phosphate use efficiency or increasing phosphate solubilisation in the plant, and wherein the plant is cultivated in the presence of soil phosphate and/or applied phosphate.  
 
     
 28.    A method according to claim 27, wherein the applied phosphate includes phosphate applied by fertiliser.  
 
     
 29.    A method according to claim 26, wherein the method includes increasing nitrogen use efficiency or nitrogen availability, and wherein the plant is cultivated in a low nitrogen medium, preferably low nitrogen soil.  
 
     
 30.    A method of increasing phosphate use efficiency or increasing phosphate solubilisation by a plant, said method including infecting a plant with an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13, and cultivating the plant.  
 
     
 31.    A method according to claim 30, wherein the plant is cultivated in the presence of soil phosphate and/or applied phosphate.  
 
     
 32.    A method according to claim 31, wherein the applied phosphate includes phosphate applied by fertiliser.  
 
     
 33.    A method of growing a plant in a low nitrogen medium, said method including infecting a plant with a bioprotectant compound -producing endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13, and cultivating the plant.  
 
     
 34.    A method according to any one of claims 30 to 33, wherein the plant is cultivated in soil.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
