
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:  
   
 1.    A substantially purified or isolated endophyte strain isolated from a plant of the Poaceae family, wherein said endophyte is a strain of Xanthomonas sp. which provides bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotypes to plants into which it is inoculated.  
 
     
 2.    An endophyte according to claim 1, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype includes production of the bioprotectant compound in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 3.    An endophyte according to claim 2, wherein the bioprotectant compound is selected from the group consisting of siderophore xanthoferrin, and/or xanthomonadin, or a derivative, isomer and/or salt thereof.  
 
     
 4.    An endophyte according to claim 1, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype is selected from the group consisting of production of organic acids, solubilisation of phosphate and nitrogen fixation in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 5.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the endophyte is strain is selected from the group consisting of Xanthomonas sp. strains GW, SS  and SI as deposited with The National Measurement Institute on 17th May 2019 with accession numbers V19/009902, V19/009905 and V19/009909, respectively.  
 
     
 6.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the plant from which the endophyte is isolated is of the Poaceae family is a pasture grass.  
 
     
 7.    An endophyte according to claim 6, wherein the pasture grass is from the genus Lolium or Festuca.  
 
     
 8.    An endophyte according to claim 7, wherein the pasture grass is from the species Lolium perenne or Festuca arundinaceum.  
 
     
 9.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated includes an endophyte-free host plant or part thereof stably infected with said endophyte.  
 
     
 10.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is an agricultural plant species selected from one or more of forage grass, turf grass, bioenergy grass, grain crop and industrial crop.  
 
     
 11.    An endophyte according claim 10, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a forage, turf or bioenergy grass selected from the group consisting of those belonging to the genera Lolium and Festuca, including L. perenne (perennial ryegrass), L.  arundinaceum (tall fescue) and L. multiflorum (Italian ryegrass), and those belonging to the Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex (panic grasses), including Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachiaria ruziziensis, B. dictyoneura, Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosambicensis as well as interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex such as interspecific hybrids between Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria decumbens, [Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria decumbens] x Brachiaria brizantha, [Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria brizantha] x Brachiaria decumbens.  
 
     
 12.    An endophyte according claim 10, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a grain crop or industrial crop grass selected from the group consisting of those belonging to the genus Triticum, including T. aestivum (wheat), those belonging to the genus Hordeum, including H. vulgare (barley), those belonging to the genus Avena, including A.sativa (oats), those belonging to the genus Zea, including Z. mays (maize or corn), those belonging to the genus Oryza, including O. sativa (rice), those belonging to the genus Saccharum including S. officinarum (sugarcane), those belonging to the genus Sorghum including S. bicolor (sorghum), those belonging to the genus Panicum, including P. virgatum (switchgrass), those belonging to the genera Miscanthus, Paspalum, Pennisetum, Poa, Eragrostis and Agrostis,  
 
     
 13.    An endophyte according to claim 10, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a grain crop or industrial crop selected from the group consisting of wheat, barley, oats, chickpeas, triticale, fava beans, lupins, field peas, canola, cereal rye, vetch, lentils, millet/panicum, safflower, linseed, sorghum, sunflower, maize, canola, mungbeans, soybeans, and cotton.  
 
     
 14.    A plant or part thereof infected with one or more endophytes according to any one of claims 1 to 10.  
 
     
 15.    A plant, plant seed or other plant part derived from a plant or part thereof according to claim 14 and stably infected with said one or more endophytes.  
 
     
 16.    Use of an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13 to produce a plant or part thereof stably infected with said one or more endophytes.  
 
     
 17.    A bioprotectant compound produced by an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13.  
 
     
 18.    A bioprotectant compound according to claim 17, wherein the compound is selected from siderophore xanthoferrin and xanthomonadin, or a derivative, isomer and/or salt thereof.  
 
     
 19.    A method for producing a bioprotectant compound, said method including infecting a plant with an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13 and cultivating the plant under conditions suitable to produce the bioprotectant compound.  
 
     
 20.    A method according to claim 19, wherein the conditions include a culture medium including a source of carbohydrates.  
 
     
 21.    A method according to claim 20, wherein the source of carbohydrates is selected from one or more of the group consisting of a starch/sugar-based agar or broth, a cereal-based agar or broth, endophyte agar, Murashige and Skoog with 20% sucrose, half V8 juice/half PDA, water agar and yeast malt extract agar.  
 
     
 22.    A method according to any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein the method further includes isolating the bioprotectant compound from the plant or culture medium.  
 
     
 23.                                                                       A  method according to claim 22, wherein the bioprotectant compound is selected from siderophore xanthoferrin and xanthomonadin, or a derivative, isomer and/or salt thereof.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
