
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:  
   
 1.    A substantially purified or isolated endophyte strain isolated from a plant of the Poaceae family, wherein said endophyte is a strain of Paenibacillus sp. which provides bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotypes to plants into which it is inoculated.  
 
     
 2.    An endophyte according to claim 1, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype includes production of the bioprotectant cornpound in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 3.    An endophyte according to claim 1 and 2, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype is selected from the group consisting of: nitrogen fixation; phosphate solubilisation and/or assimilation; production of organic acids; and production of secondary metabolites in the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated.  
 
     
 4.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the endophyte is strain S02 as described herein and as deposited with The National Measurement Institute of 1/153 Bertie St, Port Melbourne, Victoria 3207 Australia on 19 February 2021 with accession number V21/003092.  
 
     
 5.    An endophyte according to any one of clairns 1 to 3, wherein the endophyte is strain S25 as described herein and as deposited with The National Measurement Institute of 1/153 Bertie St, Port Melbourne, Victoria 3207 Australia on 19 February 2021 with accession number V21/003093.  
 
     
 6.    An endophyte according to anyone of claims 1 to 5, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype is a result of the differential gene expression of one or more gene(s) selected from nitrogen fixation genes as shown in Figure 5a to 5ac (SEQ ID  NOS: 3 to 31, respectively) or Figure 6a to 6ac (SEQ ID NOS: 32 to 60, respectively).  
 
     
 7.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype is a result of the differential gene expression of one or more of the gene(S) selected from phosphate solubilisation, phosphonate cluster (phn) and/or phosphate transporter (pst) genes as shown in Figure 5a to 5ac (SEQ ID NOS: 3 to 31, respectively) or Figure 6a to 6ac (SEQ ID NOS: 32 to 60, respectively).  
 
     
 8.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype is a result of the differential gene expression of one or more gene(s) selected from Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) production genes as shown in Figure 5a to 5ac (SEQ  ID NOS: 3 to 31, respectively) or Figure 6a to 6ac (SEQ ID NOS: 32 to 60, respectively).  
 
     
 9.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype includes resistance to harmful fungal pathogen growth.  
 
     
 10.    An endophyte according to claim 9, wherein the harmful fungal pathogen is selected from Fusarium spp., Verticillium albo-atrum, Monilia persoon, Alternaria mali, Botrytis cinerea, and Aspergillus niger.  
 
     
 11.    An endophyte according to claim 9, wherein the harmful fungal pathogen is selected from Colletotrichum graminicola and Fusarium verticillioides.  
 
     
 12.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the bioprotection and/or biofertilizer phenotype includes production of secondary metabolites with antimicrobial bioactivity.  
 
     
 13.    An endophyte according to claim 12, wherein the secondary metabolite is a result of differential gene expression of one or more gene cluster(s) as shown in Figure 9 (SEQ ID  NOS: 61 to 66, respectively).  
 
     
 14.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated includes an endophyte-free host plant or part thereof stably infected with said endophyte.  
 
     
 15.    An endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is an agricultural plant species selected from one or more of forage grass, turf grass, bioenergy grass, grain crop and industrial crop.  
 
     
 16.    An endophyte according claim 15, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a forage, turf or bioenergy grass selected from the group consisting of those belonging to the genera Lolium and Festuca, including L. perenne (perennial ryegrass), L.  arundinaceum (tall fescue) and L. multiflorum (Italian ryegrass), and those belonging to the Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex (panic grasses), including Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria decumbens, Brachiaria humidicola, Brachiaria stolonifera, Brachiaria ruziziensis, B. dictyoneura, Urochloa brizantha, Urochloa decumbens, Urochloa humidicola, Urochloa mosambicensis as well as interspecific and intraspecific hybrids of Brachiaria-Urochloa species complex such as interspecific hybrids between Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria decumbens, [Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria decumbensl x Brachiaria brizantha, [Brachiaria ruziziensis x Brachiaria brizantha] x Brachiaria decumbens.  
 
     
 17.    An endophyte according claim 15, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a grain crop or industrial crop grass selected frorn the group consisting of those belonging to the genus Triticum, including T. aestivum (wheat), those belonging to the genus Hordeum, including H. vulgare (barley), those belonging to the genus Zea, including Z. mays (maize or corn), those belonging to the genus Oryza, including O. sativa (rice), those belonging to the genus Saccharum including S. officinarum (sugarcane), those belonging to the genus Sorghum including S. bicolor (sorghum), those belonging to the genus Panicum, including P. virgatum (switchgrass), and those belonging to the genera Miscanthus, Paspalum, Pennisetum, Poa, Eragrostis and Agrostis.  
 
     
 18.    An endophyte according to claim 15, wherein the plant into which the endophyte is inoculated is a grain crop or industrial crop selected from the group consisting or wheat, barley, oats, chickpeas, triticale, fava beans, lupins, field peas, canola, cereal rye, vetch, lentils, millet/panicum, safflower, linseed, sorghum, sunflower, maize, canola, mungbeans, soybeans and cotton.  
 
     
 19.    A plant or part thereof infected with one or more endophytes according to any one of claims 1 to 18.  
 
     
 20.    A plant, plant seed or other plant part derived from a plant or part thereof according to claim 19 and stably infected with said one or more endophytes.  
 
     
 21.    Use of an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 18 to produce a plant or part thereof stably infected with said one or more endophytes.  
 
     
 22.    A bioprotectant compound produced by an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 18.  
 
     
 23.    A method for producing a bioprotectant compound said method including infecting a plant with an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 18 and cultivating the plant under conditions suitable to produce the bioprotectant compound.  
 
     
 24.    A method for producing a bioprotectant compound, said method including culturing an endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 18 under conditions suitable to produce the bioprotectant compound.  
 
     
 25.    A method according to claim 24, wherein the conditions include a culture medium including a source of carbohydrates.  
 
     
 26.    A method according to any one of claims 23 to 25, wherein the method further includes isolating the bioprotectant compound from the plant or culture medium.  
 
     
 27.    A method of increasing nitrogen use efficiency or increasing nitrogen fixation by a plant, said method including infecting a plant with a bioprotectant compound -producing endophyte according to any one of claims 1 to 18, and cultivating the plant.  
 
     
 28.    A method according to claim 27, wherein the plant is cultivated in the presence of soil nitrogen and/or applied nitrogen.  
 
     
 29.    A method according to claim 27 or 28, wherein the plant is cultivated in soil.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
