
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of saltant type produces carotenoid bacterium, it includes genes any in following (a)~(c): 
 (a) gene of protein of the coding comprising mutant amino acid sequence, the mutant amino acid sequence are to produce class Hu trailing plants
At least the 225th amino acids residue is by it in the amino acid sequence of the 1-deoxy-D-xylulose -5- phosphate synthase of Bu Su bacterium
Made of its amino acid residue replaces； 
 (b) gene of protein of the coding comprising mutant amino acid sequence, the mutant amino acid sequence are to produce class Hu trailing plants
At least the 305th amino acids residue is by other ammonia in the amino acid sequence of the decaprenyl diphosphate synthase of Bu Su bacterium
Made of base acid residue replaces； 
 (c) (a) and (b) gene of the two. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. bacterium according to claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequence of 1-deoxy-D-xylulose -5- phosphate synthase is
Sequence shown in sequence number 2. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 3. bacterium according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the 225th amino acids residue is substituted by asparagus fern ammonia by glycine
Acid. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 4. bacterium described in any one of claim 1 to 3, wherein the amino of decaprenyl diphosphate synthase
Acid sequence is sequence shown in sequence number 4. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 5. bacterium according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the 305th amino acids residue is substituted by by propylhomoserin
Valine. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 6. bacterium according to any one of claims 1 to 5 includes mutant amino acid sequence with not having coding
The carotenoid of the production carotenoid bacterium of the gene of protein generates ability and compares, and obtains higher generation ability. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. bacterium according to claim 6, with the base for not having protein of the coding comprising mutant amino acid sequence
The carotenoid yield of the production carotenoid bacterium of cause is compared, and the generation ability of at least 5 times or more of amount is obtained. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 8. bacterium according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein produce carotenoid bacterium and belong to paracoccus. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. bacterium according to claim 8, wherein the bacterium for belonging to paracoccus is E-396 plants. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 10. bacterium described according to claim 1~any one of 9, wherein carotenoid is astaxanthin. 
 
     
 11. the manufacturing method of a Carotenoids, this method comprises: culture is according to any one of claims 1 to 10 thin
Bacterium acquires carotenoid from obtained culture. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. according to the method for claim 11, wherein encode the protein comprising mutant amino acid sequence with not having
The carotenoid yield of production carotenoid bacterium of gene compare, the yield of the carotenoid of this method is at least
For 5 times or more of yield. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 13. method according to claim 11 or 12, wherein carotenoid is astaxanthin. 
 
     
 14. a kind of screening technique for producing carotenoid bacterium, this method comprises: implementing at mutation to carotenoid bacterium is produced
Reason has the bacterium of any feature in following (a)~(c) from selection in the bacterium for having carried out mutation processing: 
 (a) activity of 1-deoxy-D-xylulose -5- phosphate synthase increases than the activity of the bacterium before mutation processing； 
 (b) activity of decaprenyl diphosphate synthase is reduced than the activity of the bacterium before mutation processing； 
 (c) above-mentioned (a) and (b) the two. 
 
     
 15. the manufacturing method of a Carotenoids, this method comprises: to the thin of method according to claim 11 selection
Bacterium is cultivated, and acquires carotenoid from obtained culture. 
 
     
 16. a kind of gene, coding includes the protein of mutant amino acid sequence, and the mutant amino acid sequence is 1- de-
At least the 225th amino acids residue is taken by other amino acid residues in the amino acid sequence of oxygen-D- xylulose -5- phosphate synthase
Made of generation. 
 
     
 17. a kind of gene, DNA it includes following (a) or (b): 
 (a) DNA comprising base sequence shown in sequence number 5, 
 (b) being hybridized and encoded with the DNA comprising the base sequence complementary with the DNA of above-mentioned (a) under strict conditions has
The DNA of the protein of 1-deoxy-D-xylulose -5- phosphate synthetase activity. 
 
     
 18. a kind of gene, coding includes the protein of mutant amino acid sequence, and the mutant amino acid sequence is ten poly-
In the amino acid sequence of Isoprenoid synzyme at least the 305th amino acids residue replaced by other amino acid residues and
At. 
 
     
 19. a kind of gene, DNA it includes following (a) or (b): 
 (a) DNA comprising base sequence shown in sequence number 7； 
 (b) hybridized under strict conditions with the DNA comprising the base sequence complementary with the DNA of above-mentioned (a) and encode reduction
The DNA of the active protein of decaprenyl diphosphate synthase. 
 
     
 20. a kind of recombinant vector, it includes genes any in following (a)~(c): 
 (a) gene described in claim 16 or 17； 
 (b) gene described in claim 18 or 19； 
 (c) (a) described in and gene (b). 
 
     
 21. a kind of transformant contains the recombinant vector described in claim 20. 
 
     
 22. the manufacturing method of a Carotenoids, this method comprises: transformant described in culture claim 21, from obtaining
Culture acquire carotenoid. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
