
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. genus bacillus (Bacillussp.) CJS-26KCCM11144P. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. comprise the fermented liquid of genus bacillus CJS-26KCCM11144P according to claim 1, the enriched material of described fermented liquid or dry product. 
 
     
 3. probiotic composition, comprises the bacterial strain according to claim 1 as activeconstituents or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or dry product. 
 
     
 4. fodder additives, comprises the bacterial strain according to claim 1 as activeconstituents or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or dry product. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. fodder additives as claimed in claim 4, wherein said fodder additives is used for the aquaculture of fish or Crustacean. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 6. bacterial strain according to claim 1 or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or the dry product purposes in the preparation for the preparation of cultured fishes or Crustacean. 
 
     
 7. antiseptic-germicide, comprises bacterial strain according to claim 1 or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or dry product. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 8. bacterial strain according to claim 1 or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or dry product for the preparation of degraded Vibrio harveyi (Vibrioharveyi) colony induction signaling molecule and suppress biofilm formation simultaneously in aquafarm cultured fishes or Crustacean preparation in purposes. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 9. bacterial strain according to claim 1 or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or dry product are by the purposes of causing a disease in the medicine of microbial disease in for the preparation of prevention animal, and wherein said pathogenic bacterium are selected from aeromonas salmonicida (Aeromonassalmonicida), edwardsiella tarda (Edwardsiellatarda), Streptococcus iniae (Streptococcusiniae) and vibrios (Vibriosp.). 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. purposes as claimed in claim 9, wherein said vibrios (Vibriosp.) is selected from Vibrio harveyi, Vibrio anguillarum (Vibrioanguillarum) and hemolytic vibrios (Vibriohemolyticus). 
 
     
 11. for promoting the preparation of water quality, comprises the bacterial strain according to claim 1 as activeconstituents or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or dry product. 
 
     
 The method of 12. lifting water quality, comprises the following steps: process water with bacterial strain according to claim 1 or fermented liquid according to claim 2, enriched material or dry product. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
