
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. method, including： 
 A () granulation is with the moisture in the range of 1 to 10 weight % and include the microbial biomass of oil-containing microorganism,
Wherein described oil-containing microorganism includes at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid in the oil, and is wherein granulated micro- life
Thing biomass include： 
 (1) microbial biomass and at least one grinding agent mixing that can absorb oil are mixed with providing broken biomass
Compound, the broken biomass mixture include broken microbial biomass； 
 (2) the broken biomass mixture and at least one binding agent are blended with provide can form solid grain can
Solidification mixture；And 
 (3) curable mixtures are made to form solid grain to provide granular microbial biomass； 
 Wherein described broken microbial biomass is produced in double screw extruder, and the double screw extruder includes： 
 (A) total specific energy input (SEI) of 0.04 to 0.4KW/ (kg/hr)； 
 (B) using the compacting zone of the axle bush element with the pitch length being gradually shortened；With 
 (C) using the compressional zone of flow restriction； 
 Wherein in the extruder, the compacting zone is before the compressional zone； 
 B the granular microbial biomass of () extraction step (a) is to produce extract oil, wherein the extract oil includes sterol fraction；
And 
 (c) under the conditions of short-path distillation distilation steps (b) extract oil at least one times, wherein it is described distillation produce distillate fraction
With fraction containing lipid；The distillate fraction include the sterol, the fraction containing lipid with not yet undergo short-path distillation
Comprising the sterol amount for reducing when in extract oil, sterol amount is compared, and wherein described distilation steps include making micro- life of extraction
Thing oil passes through short-path distillation at least one times at the vacuum level less than 30mTorr and 220 to 300 DEG C. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. method according to claim 1, wherein the oil-containing microorganism is selected from algae, funguses, antibacterial, class eye worm and original
Raw phycomycete. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. method according to claim 1, wherein the oil-containing microorganism is selected from yeast and oomycetes. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. method according to claim 1, wherein： 
 A () described at least one grinding agent has selected from following characteristic： 
 I () described at least one grinding agent is to determine with 2.0 to 6.0 Mohs' hardness and according to ASTM method D1483-60
The granule of 0.8 or higher oil suction coefficient； 
 (ii) at least one grinding agent is selected from silicon dioxide and silicate；And 
 (iii) at least one grinding agent is with the total of the microbial biomass in the solid grain, grinding agent and binding agent
1 to 20 weight % of weight meter is present；And/or 
 B () described at least one binding agent has selected from following characteristic： 
 (iv) at least one binding agent is selected from water and carbohydrate, and the carbohydrate is selected from sucrose, Lactose, fruit
Sugar, glucose and soluble starch；And 
 V () described at least one binding agent is with the gross weight of the microbial biomass in the solid grain, grinding agent and binding agent
0.5 to 10 weight % of gauge is present. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. method according to claim 1, wherein： 
 A () step (1) and (2) are while carry out；And 
 B () step (3) is included selected from following step： 
 I () extrudes the curable mixtures to form strand by mould； 
 (ii) strand is made to be dried and rupture；And 
 (iii) step (i) and step (ii) are combined. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. method according to claim 1, wherein： 
 The average length of average diameter of (a) the described solid grain with 0.5 to 1.5mm and 2.0 to 8.0mm； 
 B () described solid grain has the moisture of 0.1 to 5.0 weight %；Or 
 C () described solid grain is comprising with the gross weight of the microbial biomass in the solid grain, grinding agent and binding agent
The microbial biomass comprising oil-containing microorganism of 70 to 98.5 weight % of meter, at least one of 1 to 20 weight % can absorb
At least one binding agent of the grinding agent and 0.5 to 10 weight % of oil. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. method according to claim 1, wherein the extraction of step (b) is carried out with organic solvent to produce extraction
Oil, and the extract oil was debinded before the distillation of step (c) and optionally bleaches. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. method according to claim 1, the extraction of wherein step (b) include： 
 (1) with the solvent process granular microbial biomass, the solvent includes liquid or supercritical fluid carbon dioxide, from
And obtain： 
 The extract of (i) comprising the lipid fraction for being substantially free of phospholipid；With 
 (ii) residual biomass comprising phospholipid；And 
 (2) extract obtained in fractionating step (1) is at least one times with extract oil of the acquisition with refined lipid composition, institute
Lipid composition is stated comprising at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid, wherein the refined lipid composition is relative to unused solvent
The fluid composition of the granular microbial biomass of process is rich in triacylglycerol. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. method according to claim 1, wherein the sterol fraction includes one or more sterol, the sterol choosing
From：Stigmasterol, ergosterol, campesterol, campesterol, cupreol and desmosterol. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method according to claim 8, wherein the extract oil with refined lipid composition is also comprising at least
The sterol fraction of 300mg/100g, the lipid composition is comprising at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid and relative to unused molten
The fluid composition of the granular microbial biomass that agent is processed is rich in triacylglycerol. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 11. according to the method in claim 2 or 3, wherein the oil-containing microorganism is Ye Shi yeast (Yarrowia). 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. methods according to claim 11, wherein the Ye Shi yeast Jing restructuring engineerings are producing how unsaturated fat
Fat acid, the polyunsaturated fatty acid are selected from：Linoleic acid, gamma-Linolenic acid, eicosadienoic acid, dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid, Semen arachidis hypogaeae
Tetraenoic acid, docosatetratenoic acid, ω -6 clupanodonic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, parinaric acid, eicosatrienoic acid,
Eicosatetraenoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, ω -3 clupanodonic acid and docosahexenoic acid. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. methods according to claim 1, also include： 
 D () carries out ester exchange to step (c) fraction containing lipid, so as to provide the fraction containing lipid of Jing ester exchanges；And 
 E () is enriched with to obtain oil concentrate to the fraction containing lipid of the Jing ester exchanges of step (d). 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. methods according to claim 13, wherein： 
 I () described oil-containing microorganism accumulation microbial oil exceedes its dry cell wt 25%；And 
 (ii) eicosapentaenoic acid of the microbial oil comprising based on weight % of total fatty acids 30 to 70 weight % and basic
It is upper not contain docosahexenoic acid；And 
 (iii) enrichment of step (e) is carried out by the combination of at least the first and second methods, and the first method includes fractional distillation simultaneously
And the second method is selected from：Urea adduct formation, liquid chromatograph, supercritical fluid chromatography, simulated moving bed chromatography, reality
Mobile bed chromatic and combinations thereof；And 
 (iv) oil concentrate is comprising at least eicosapentaenoic acid of 70 weight % and substantially not based on weight % by oil
Eicosapentaenoic acid concentrate containing docosahexenoic acid. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. methods according to claim 8, wherein further extracting the residual biomass comprising phospholipid to separate
State phospholipid. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
