
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. alcohol dehydrogenase ADH (1), which is characterized in that its 
 For show 64,000 ± 5,000 with SDS-PAGE, shown with gel permeation chromatography 120,000 ± 10,000 molecular weight pyrroles
And quinoline quinone dependent enzyme, and 
 The amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:1 is constituted. 
 
     
 2. aldehyde dehydrogenase ALDH (2), which is characterized in that its 
 For show 61,000 ± 5,000 with SDS-PAGE, shown with gel permeation chromatography 180,000 ± 10,000 molecular weight pyrroles
And quinoline quinone dependent enzyme, and 
 The amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:2 is constituted. 
 
     
 The manufacturing method of 3.D- glucaric acid or its salt, which is characterized in that 
 It is that D-Glucose is manufactured by the one kind or two or more saccharic selected from D-Glucose, maltonic acid, D-Glucose aldehydic acid
The method of diacid, and 
 The reaction for generating D-Glucose diacid from these saccharic is wanted by alcohol dehydrogenase ADH (1) described in claim 1 and right
Both aldehyde dehydrogenase ALDH (2) described in asking 2 catalysis. 
 
     
 The manufacturing method of 4.D- glucaric acid or its salt, which is characterized in that be selected from D-Glucose, maltonic acid, the Portugal D-
In the presence of the one kind or two or more saccharic of grape uronic acid, it is catalyzed using as described below having described one kind or two or more
Saccharic and produce the function of D-Glucose diacid microorganism or its processed material production D-Glucose diacid: 
 (A) belong to raw saccharon littlefruit grape herb saccharic acid bacillus (Pseudogluconobacter saccharoketogenes), 
 (B) have 
 The activity of alcohol dehydrogenase ADH (1) shown in claim 1, and 
 The activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase ALDH (2) shown in claim 2, 
 (C) aldehyde dehydrogenase ALDH (3) reduced activity relevant to the generation of Mek-Tol Unit or disappearance. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the manufacturing method of D-Glucose diacid as claimed in claim 4 or its salt, wherein the microorganism is with deposit number
The life saccharon littlefruit grape herb saccharic acid bacillus (Pseudogluconobacter of FERM BP-10820 preservation
Saccharoketogenes) Rh47-3 plants. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the manufacturing method of D-Glucose diacid as claimed in claim 4 or its salt, wherein 
 The gene coded sequence of alcohol dehydrogenase ADH (1) is made of the base sequence of SEQ ID NO:7, and 
 The gene coded sequence of aldehyde dehydrogenase ALDH (2) is made of the base sequence of SEQ ID NO:8. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the manufacturing method of D-Glucose diacid as claimed in claim 4 or its salt, wherein the processed material is selected from following
It is a kind of: 
 With the life saccharon littlefruit grape herb saccharic acid bacillus (Pseudogluconobacter of deposit number FERM BP-10820 preservation
Saccharoketogenes) Rh47-3 plants of cleaning thallus, 
 Described Rh47-3 plants of clasmatosis liquid, 
 Rh47-3 plants of the cell extract and 
 By described Rh47-3 plants of clasmatosis liquid or Rh47-3 plants of the cell extract as obtained from acetone treatment
Powder. 
 
     
 The manufacturing method of 8.D- glucaric acid or its salt, which is characterized in that be selected from D-Glucose, maltonic acid, the Portugal D-
In the presence of the one kind or two or more saccharic of grape uronic acid, using belonging to yeast and raw saccharon littlefruit grape herb saccharic acid bacillus
The genetic recombination biology of (Pseudogluconobacter saccharoketogenes) or its processed material produce D-Glucose two
Acid, 
 Wherein the genetic recombination biology imports 
 The gene coded sequence of alcohol dehydrogenase ADH (1) described in claim 1 is SEQ ID described in claim 6
Base sequence shown in NO:7, and 
 The gene coded sequence of aldehyde dehydrogenase ALDH (2) as claimed in claim 2 is SEQ ID described in claim 6
Base sequence shown in NO:8. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the manufacturing method of D-Glucose diacid according to any one of claims 8 or its salt, wherein the processed material is selected from following
It is a kind of: 
 The clasmatosis liquid of the genetic recombination biology, 
 The cell extract of the genetic recombination biology and 
 By the cell extract of the clasmatosis liquid of the genetic recombination biology or genetic recombination biology by acetone treatment
Obtained from powder. 
 
     
 The manufacturing method of 10.D- glucose dialdehyde, which is characterized in that using alcohol dehydrogenase ADH (1) described in claim 1 from
D-Glucose produces the D-Glucose dialdehyde as intermediate A. 
 
     
 The manufacturing method of 11.L- guluronic acid or its salt, which is characterized in that selected from D-Glucose, maltonic acid 1 or
In the presence of 2 kinds of saccharics, alcohol dehydrogenase ADH (1) described in claim 1 and aldehyde dehydrogenase as claimed in claim 2 are used
L- guluronic acid of both ALDH (2) production as intermediate B. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
