
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of microorganism, which is characterized in that the microorganism is Bacillus sp.ITB105 plants, deposit number NITE
BP-01727。 
 
     
 2. a kind of thallus or its culture, which is characterized in that the thallus or its culture are microorganisms described in claim 1
Thallus or its culture. 
 
     
 3. a kind of microorganism formulation, which is characterized in that the microorganism formulation contains microorganism described in claim 1 or power
Benefit require 2 described in thallus or its culture. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. microorganism formulation as claimed in claim 3, which is characterized in that the microorganism formulation is in promoting plant growth
It uses. 
 
     
 5. a kind of method of promoting plant growth, which is characterized in that including with thallus as claimed in claim 2 or its culture or
The step of microorganism formulation described in claim 3 or 4 handles plant or soil. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. according to the method described in claim 5, it is characterized in that, the plant in wheat, corn and soybean at least
It is a kind of. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 7. method according to claim 5 or 6, which is characterized in that at thallus or its culture or microorganism formulation
Manage the seed of the plant. 
 
     
 8. a kind of cultivation of plants method, which is characterized in that including with thallus as claimed in claim 2 or its culture or power
Benefit require 3 or 4 described in microorganism formulation the step of plant is handled. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. according to the method described in claim 8, it is characterized in that, the plant in wheat, corn and soybean at least
It is a kind of. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 10. method according to claim 8 or claim 9, which is characterized in that at thallus or its culture or microorganism formulation
Manage the seed of the plant. 
 
     
 11. the purposes of thallus or its culture, which is characterized in that for producing plant growth promoter, 
 The thallus or its culture are the thallus or its culture of microorganism, 
 The microorganism is Bacillus sp.ITB105 plants, and the deposit number of the microorganism is NITE BP-01727. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. purposes according to claim 11, which is characterized in that the plant in wheat, corn and soybean extremely
Few one kind. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
