
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. for the production of coryneform bacteria (Corynebacterium) microorganism of 5 '-xanthosine monophosphate(XMP) or 5 '-guanosine monophosphate, its proline dehydrogenase with increase compared with its endogenous activity is active, wherein said proline dehydrogenase is by coryneform putA genes encoding, and the increase of proline dehydrogenase activity is realized by the promotor of the copy number or displacement putA gene that increase putA gene. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. Corynebacteria microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said proline dehydrogenase activity is increased by the improvement of the expression level of coryneform bacteria putA gene. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. Corynebacteria microorganism according to claim 2, wherein said putA gene is the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO.7. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. Corynebacteria microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said microorganism transforms by introducing the carrier comprising putA gene. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. Corynebacteria microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said microorganism transforms by introducing the recombinant vectors comprising the putA gene of SEQ ID NO:7. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. Corynebacteria microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said microorganism has the ATP productivity of improvement. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. Corynebacteria microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said microorganism is corynebacterium ammoniagenes. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. Corynebacteria microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said microorganism is determined by accession number KCCM11068P. 
 
     
 9. produced the method for 5 '-xanthosine monophosphate(XMP) (XMP) or 5 '-guanosine monophosphate (GMP) from nutrient solution by the microorganism described in any one of cultivation claim 1 to 8. 
 
     
 10. produce the method for 5 '-guanosine monophosphate, comprising: 
 A () cultivates the Corynebacteria microorganism according to any one of claim 1 to 8; 
 B () adds the nutrient solution of 5 '-xanthosine monophosphate(XMP) deaminase to the described Corynebacteria microorganism obtained in step (a); With 
 C () obtains 5 '-guanosine monophosphate from the described nutrient solution of step (b). 
 
     
 
   
 
 The described Corynebacteria microorganism of 11. claims 1 is for the production of the purposes of 5 '-xanthosine monophosphate(XMP) or 5 '-guanosine monophosphate. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
