
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. the microbionation agent for being applied to plant, the microbionation agent includes a effective amount of at least one bacterial species
The pure culture of biology, trace metal ion and carrier, 
 The wherein described trace metal ion is selected from Mo 2+ Ion, Fe 2+ Ion, Mn 2+ Any combinations of ion or these ions； 
 The wherein described carrier is selected from biopolymer, sugar, animal breast, planting material and porous chemical inert carrier； 
 Wherein described at least one bacterial species are to be preserved in american agriculture with accession number NRRL B-50631 to study culture presevation
Enterobacter (Enterobacter) the species R4-368 at center, and 
 Wherein when the microbionation agent is applied to plant the bacterial species by Acetylene Reduction be ethylene or by atmospheric nitrogen also
Originally it was ammonia and improved plant production rate. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the microbionation agent of claim 1, wherein the reduction is on blade face, inside blade face, inside root tissue or
Root system occurs on surface. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the microbionation agent of claim 2, wherein the reduction occurs in the plant selected from following plant species：Jatropha curcas
Belong to (Jatropha), sorghum (Sorghum), Gossypium (Gossypium), oil palm category (Elaeis), Ricinus (Ricinus),
Oryza (Oryza) and cassava (Manihot). 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the microbionation agent of claim 1, wherein bacterial species secretion exopolysaccharide or endoglucanase. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the microbionation agent of claim 1, further includes bacterial species selected from the following：With accession number NRRL B-
50630 are preserved in the Pleomorphomonas jatrophae R5-392 of american agriculture research Culture Collection Center, to log in
Number NRRL B-50628 are preserved in the Methylobacterium species (Methylobacterium of american agriculture research Culture Collection Center
Sp.) L2-4 is preserved in the Methylobacterium species that american agriculture studies Culture Collection Center with accession number NRRL B-50629
L2-76 is preserved in the Sphingomonas species that american agriculture studies Culture Collection Center with accession number NRRL B-50632
(Sphingomonas sp.) S6-274 and its arbitrary combination. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 6. the microbionation agent of any one of claim 1-5, wherein the trace metal ion in the Inoculant is a concentration of
0.1mM to 50mM. 
 
     
 7. a kind of method improving plant production rate comprising with the microbionation of any one of a effective amount of claim 1-5
Agent inoculated plant. 
 
     
 8. a kind of method improving plant production rate comprising with the microbionation agent inoculated plant of a effective amount of claim 6. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the method for claim 7, wherein the microbionation agent is sprayed on aboveground vegetation part. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. the method for claim 8, wherein the microbionation agent is sprayed on aboveground vegetation part. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. the method for claim 7, wherein the microbionation agent is planted by insertion in ditch dug with a plow, to the plant roots in soil
System's watering, root is immersed in the microbionation agent or is applied to seed pelleting. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. the method for claim 8, wherein the microbionation agent is planted by insertion in ditch dug with a plow, to the plant roots in soil
System's watering, root is immersed in the microbionation agent or is applied to seed pelleting. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. the method for claim 7, wherein the plant production rate be the high chlorophyll content in plant growth, leaf maintenance,
Fruits and seeds number increases, fruits and seeds Unit Weight increases or any combinations of these features. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. the method for claim 8, wherein the plant production rate be the high chlorophyll content in plant growth, leaf maintenance,
Fruits and seeds number increases, fruits and seeds Unit Weight increases or any combinations of these features. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. the method for claim 13, wherein the plant is Jatropha, sorghum, Gossypium, oil palm category, Ricinus, Oryza
Or the species of cassava. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. the method for claim 14, wherein the plant is Jatropha, sorghum, Gossypium, oil palm category, Ricinus, Oryza
Or the species of cassava. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
