
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. one kind has the microorganism of the ornithine throughput of improvement; wherein ornithine transcarbamylase ArgF and L-glutamic acid transport that the activity of associated protein NCg11221 is modified compared with its endogenous activity to be weakened, and wherein said microorganism is the microorganism belonging to corynebacterium glutamicum. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said ArgF is made up of the aminoacid sequence of sequence code numbering 18. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said NCg11221 is made up of the aminoacid sequence of sequence code numbering 20. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. microorganism according to claim 1, the activity of wherein said ArgF and NCg11221 is weakened by the method being selected from following group, described group comprises the gene that (1) partially or completely deletes the protein described in coding, (2) expression regulation sequence is modified to suppress described genetic expression, (3) chromosomal nucleotide sequence is modified to reduce described protein active, and the combination more than (4). 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein acetyl γ L-glutamic acid phosphoric acid reduction enzyme ArgC, acetylglutamate synthetase or ornithine acetyltransferase ArgJ, acetylglutamate kinase ArgB are enhanced compared with its endogenous activity further with the activity of Ncg12355 ArgD. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. microorganism according to claim 5, the aminoacid sequence that wherein ArgC, ArgJ, ArgB and ArgD are numbered 23,25,27 and 29 by sequence code respectively forms. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. microorganism according to claim 5, the activity of wherein said protein strengthens by the method be selected from following group, described group comprises the copy number that (1) increases the polynucleotide of the protein described in coding, (2) expression control sequenc is modified to increase the expression of described polynucleotide, (3) the described polynucleotide sequence on modification karyomit(e) is to strengthen enzymic activity, and the combination of (4) above method. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. microorganism according to claim 1, the wherein said microorganism belonging to corynebacterium glutamicum is corynebacterium glutamicum KCCM11137P. 
 
     
 9. produce a method for ornithine, comprise the following steps: 
 I () cultivates microorganism according to claim 1, and 
 (ii) from the microorganism cultivated or culture, ornithine is reclaimed. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
