
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. have the microorganism of putrescine productivity, it is modified to the protein active with enhancing, and described protein has the aminoacid sequence represented by SEQIDNO:21 or 23. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 1; wherein said microorganism is modified to further compared with endogenous activity; there is the protein (NCgl1221) weakening active ornithine transcarbamylase (ArgF) and participate in L-glutamic acid output, and it is active to be modified to the ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) with enhancing. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 2; wherein said ornithine transcarbamylase (ArgF) has the aminoacid sequence represented by SEQIDNO:29; the protein (NCgl1221) that described participation L-glutamic acid exports has the aminoacid sequence represented by SEQIDNO:30, and described ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) has the aminoacid sequence represented by SEQIDNO:33. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 1; wherein said microorganism is modified to further compared with endogenous activity, has the ethanoyl-γ-glutamyl-phosphoric acid reduction enzyme (ArgC) of enhanced activity, acetylglutamate synthase or ornithine acetyltransferase (ArgJ), acetylglutamate kinase (ArgB) and Ncg12355 (ArgD). 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 4, wherein said ethanoyl-γ-glutamyl-phosphoric acid reduction enzyme (ArgC), acetylglutamate synthase or ornithine acetyltransferase (ArgJ), acetylglutamate kinase (ArgB) and Ncg12355 (ArgD) have respectively by SEQIDNO:25,26,27 and 28 represent aminoacid sequences. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 1, Transacetylase (NCgl1469) activity of wherein said microorganism is weakened further. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 6, wherein said Transacetylase (NCgl1469) has the aminoacid sequence represented by SEQIDNO:31 or 32. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 1, wherein said microorganism be Escherichia certain or corynebacterium certain. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the microorganism with putrescine productivity according to claim 8, wherein said microorganism is intestinal bacteria or corynebacterium glutamicum. 
 
     
 10. produce the method for putrescine, comprise the following steps: 
 I () cultivates the microorganism with putrescine productivity that has any one of claim 1 to 9 to obtain cell culture; With 
 (ii) from microorganism or the described cell culture recovery putrescine of described cultivation. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
