
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of method for producing milk powder, methods described include： 
 (a) breast or its fraction is made to be contacted with acyltransferase；With 
 (b) milk powder is produced into enzyme treated newborn drying； 
 Wherein described acyltransferase is the polypeptide for having acyltransferase activity, and the polypeptide is following by expressing
Nucleotide sequence or nucleic acid obtain： 
 (i) nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID No.49； 
 (ii) nucleic acid of coding said polypeptide, wherein the polypeptide is the peptide sequence or SEQ ID shown in SEQ ID No.16
Peptide sequence shown in No.68；Or 
 (iii) under medium stringent conditions with the nucleic acid probe hybridization comprising the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID No.49
Nucleic acid. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. according to the method for claim 1, wherein the acyltransferase is (E.C.) 2.3.1.x selected from enzyme classification
Or (E.C.) 2.3.1.43 acyltransferase. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 3. method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the acyltransferase is turned when with the present invention is defined
Acyltransferase with least 10% acyltransferase activity when moving enzyme assay test. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 4. according to the method any one of claim 1-3, wherein the acyltransferase is can be by starting breast
Present in cholesterol at least about 10% esterification acyltransferase. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. according to any method of the preceding claims, wherein the acyltransferase is characterized as being a kind of tool
There is acyltransferase activity and include aa sequence motifs GDSX enzyme, wherein X is the one or more of following amino acid residue
Person：L, A, V, I, F, Y, H, Q, T, N, M or S. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. according to any method of the preceding claims, wherein the acyltransferase is with lipid acyl
The polypeptide of transferase active, the polypeptide include any one of following amino acid sequence：SEQ ID No.16 or SEQ ID
No.68。 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. according to any method of the preceding claims, wherein the acyltransferase is with lipid acyl
The polypeptide of transferase active, the polypeptide include the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID No.68. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. according to any method of the preceding claims, wherein being entered the enzyme treated breast by being spray-dried
Row is dried to produce milk powder. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. according to the method for claim 8, wherein the enzyme treated breast is transported into temperature at about 20 DEG C to about 95
In spray dryer between DEG C. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 10. method according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the outlet air temperature of the spray dryer at about 50 DEG C extremely
Between about 150 DEG C. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 11. according to the method any one of claim 8-10, wherein the product outlet temperature of the spray dryer exists
Between about 20 DEG C to about 60 DEG C. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. according to any method of the preceding claims, wherein by drum dried by the enzyme treated breast
It is dried to produce milk powder. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. according to the method for claim 12, wherein the temperature of the rotary drum is between about 90 DEG C to about 150 DEG C. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 14. as obtained by the method any one of claim 1-13 or obtain milk powder. 
 
     
 15. it is a kind of by by milk powder rehydration according to claim 14 and the dairy products produced. 
 
     
 16. purposes of the acyltransferase in rehydration property of the manufacture milk powder to improve milk powder. 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. purposes according to claim 16, wherein the improved rehydration property includes the wetability of the milk powder
Reduce. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 18. according to the purposes any one of claim 16-17, wherein the acyltransferase is claim 1-
The acyltransferase of any one of 7 definition. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
