
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of composition of the bacterium bacterial strain comprising Blaw spy Bordetella, for reducing the level of the enterobacteria in gastrointestinal tract
Method. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. composition as described in claim 1, wherein the enterobacteria is Escherichia coli. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 3. the composition as described in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the composition be used for IBS, Crohn's disease,
In ulcerative colitis, functional dyspepsia FD, diarrhea, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infection or the treatment or prevention of neonatal meningitis
Reduce the horizontal method of the enterobacteria in gastrointestinal tract. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 4. the composition as described in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing diarrhea, intestines
Gastritis, urinary tract infection or neonatal meningitis. 
 
     
 5. a kind of composition of the bacterium bacterial strain comprising Blaw spy Bordetella is used to treat as sense caused by enterobacteria of causing a disease
Dye. 
 
     
 6. a kind of composition of the bacterium bacterial strain comprising Blaw spy Bordetella, is used to treat coli-infection. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is Blaw spy's Bordetella hydrogenotrophic bacteria. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 8. such as composition of any of claims 1-6, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is excrement Blaw spy Salmonella. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 9. such as composition of any of claims 1-6, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is Webster Blaw spy Salmonella. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 10. such as composition of any of claims 1-6, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain has and Blaw spy's Bordetella hydrogen
The 16s rRNA sequence at least 95% of the bacterium bacterial strain of dietetic bacterial, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5% or 99.9% are identical
16s rRNA sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. composition as claimed in claim 10, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain have with SEQ ID NO:5 at least 97%,
98%, the identical 16s rRNA sequence of 99%, 99.5% or 99.9% or its 16s rRNA sequence with SEQ ID NO:5
Column. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 12. such as composition of any of claims 1-6, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain has and excrement Blaw spy Salmonella
Bacterium bacterial strain 16s rRNA sequence at least 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5% or 99.9% identical 16s
RRNA sequence. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 13. such as composition of any of claims 1-6, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain has and Webster Blaw spy Salmonella
Bacterium bacterial strain 16s rRNA sequence at least 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5% or 99.9% identical 16s
RRNA sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. composition as described in claim 1, wherein the composition includes the thin of Blaw spy Bordetella hydrogenotrophic bacteria strain
Bacteria strain, for reducing the horizontal method of the enterobacteria in the gastrointestinal tract for the subject for being diagnosed with IBS. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. composition as described in claim 1, wherein the composition includes the bacterium bacterium of excrement Blaw spy Salmonella strain
Strain, for reducing the horizontal method of the enterobacteria in the gastrointestinal tract for the subject for being diagnosed with IBS. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. composition as described in claim 1, wherein the composition includes the bacterium bacterium of Webster Blaw spy Salmonella strain
Strain, for reducing the horizontal method of the enterobacteria in the gastrointestinal tract for the subject for being diagnosed with IBS. 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the composition is for being administered orally. 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the composition can pharmaceutically connect comprising one or more
The excipient or carrier received. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is lyophilized. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain can survive. 
 
     
 
   
 
 21. composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the composition includes the single bacterium of Blaw spy Bordetella
Strain. 
 
     
 
   
 
 22. composition as claimed in any preceding claim, it is poly- as microorganism that it includes Blaw spy Bordetella bacterium bacterial strains
A part of raw body. 
 
     
 23. a kind of food product comprising composition as claimed in any preceding claim is used for such as any aforementioned right
It is required that the purposes. 
 
     
 24. a kind of vaccine composition comprising composition as claimed in any preceding claim is used for such as any aforementioned power
Benefit requires the purposes. 
 
     
 25. a kind of horizontal method for reducing the enterobacteria in gastrointestinal tract comprising include Blaw to patient in need application
The composition of the bacterium bacterial strain of special Bordetella. 
 
     
 
   
 
 26. method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the Blaw spy Bordetella is Blaw spy's Bordetella hydrogenotrophic bacteria. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
