
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of polyurethane from biomass resource, which is characterized in that the polyurethane is included at least using lower unit as knot
Structure unit： 
 Unit from polyester polyol, the unit include dicarboxylic acid units, aliphatic diol unit, in 25 DEG C of pKa values
For 3.7 organic acid units below, the dicarboxylic acids includes at least one ingredient derived from biomass resource, the organic acid
The content of unit is more than 0 mole of % relative to dicarboxylic acid units and is less than or equal to 0.09 mole of %, and 
 Polyisocyanic acid ester units from polyisocyanate compound, wherein the polyisocyanate compound is relative to described
The hydroxyl and 1 equivalent of amino of chain extender present in the hydroxyl and polyurethane of polyester polyol are the equivalent of 0.1 equivalent~10； 
 Wherein, the number-average molecular weight of the polyester polyol is 500~4000. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the polyurethane from biomass resource as described in claim 1, wherein the dicarboxylic acids includes by biomass resource
Derivative succinic acid. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 3. the polyurethane from biomass resource as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the aliphatic diol unit includes
At least one of ethylene glycol unit and 1,4- butanediol units. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 4. the polyurethane from biomass resource as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the pKa value at 25 DEG C is 3.7
Organic acid unit below is organic acid unit that a molecule has 3 or more active hydrogen-baseds. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 5. the polyurethane from biomass resource as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the pKa value at 25 DEG C is 3.7
Organic acid unit below is selected from the organic acid unit of at least one of malic acid, tartaric acid and citric acid. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 6. the polyurethane from biomass resource as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the YI values based on JIS-K7105 are 20
Below. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 7. the polyurethane from biomass resource as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the molecular weight measured by GPC
It is 1.5~3.5 to be distributed Mw/Mn. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 8. the polyurethane from biomass resource as claimed in claim 1 or 2, be used to manufacture film, sporting goods, coating,
Cement, foam and thermoplastic elastomer (TPE). 
 
     
 9. a kind of dermatine or synthetic leather are to come from biomass resource using any one of them of claim 1~8
Polyurethane manufacture. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. a kind of shoes, be using described in claim 9 dermatine or synthetic leather manufacture. 
 
     
 11. a kind of suitcase, be using described in claim 9 dermatine or synthetic leather manufacture. 
 
     
 12. a kind of sole polyurethane is poly- from biomass resource using any one of them of claim 1~8
Urethane manufacture. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. a kind of shoes are manufactured with polyurethane using the sole described in claim 12. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 14. a kind of film is manufactured using polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource of claim 1~8. 
 
     
 15. a kind of sporting goods are polyurethane of any one of them from biomass resource using claim 1~8
Manufacture. 
 
     
 16. a kind of coating is manufactured using polyurethane of any one of them of claim 1~8 from biomass resource
's. 
 
     
 17. a kind of cement is any one of them using claim 1~8 from the polyurethane system of biomass resource
It makes. 
 
     
 18. a kind of foam is manufactured using polyurethane of any one of them of claim 1~8 from biomass resource
's. 
 
     
 19. a kind of thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) is poly- from biomass resource using any one of them of claim 1~8
Urethane manufacture. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
