
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. the composition of the bacterium bacterial strain comprising Blaw spy Bordetella, is used to increase the micropopulation diversity in subject
And/or in the method for the micropopulation stability in induction subject. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. composition according to claim 1 is used in subject in the method for the treatment of or prevention disease or illness,
The wherein micropopulation diversity level that the disease or illness are reduced with the micropopulation diversity relative to health volunteer
It is associated, and wherein described treat or prevent includes the micropopulation diversity increased in the subject. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. composition according to claim 2, wherein the subject has the micro- of the reduction relative to health volunteer
Biota diversity. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. composition according to claim 3, wherein different having less than 99 kinds in the micropopulation of the subject
Bacterial species and/or less than 190 kinds different bacterium bacterial strains. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. composition according to claim 1 is used in subject in the method for the treatment of or prevention disease or illness,
Wherein the disease or the illness micropopulation stability that health volunteer reduces compared with are associated, and the wherein treatment
Or prevention includes the micropopulation stability induced in the subject. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 6. the composition according to any one of claim 2 to 5, wherein the subject has compared with health volunteer
Reduced micropopulation stability. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 7. composition according to any one of claim 1 to 6, wherein the composition is below for treating or preventing
In method: IBS, IBD, obesity, diabetes B, one or more infectious diseases, one or more allergic diseases, one
Kind or various autoimmune disease or one or more metabolic disease/illnesss. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the multifarious increase of the micropopulation and/or described
The induction of micropopulation stability is for non-production acetic acid bacteria. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the multifarious increase of the micropopulation and/or described
The induction of micropopulation stability is for production both acetic acid bacteria and non-production acetic acid bacteria. 
 
     
 10. the composition of the bacterium bacterial strain comprising Blaw spy Bordetella, is used to treat or prevent in the following method: IBS,
IBD, obesity, diabetes B, one or more infectious diseases, one or more allergic diseases, it is one or more itself
Immunological diseases or one or more metabolic disease/illnesss. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 11. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing
IBS。 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 12. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing
IBD。 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 13. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing fertilizer
Fat disease. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 14. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing 2 types
Diabetes. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 15. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing one
Kind or multi-infection disease, such as viral disease, bacteriosis or fungal disease. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 16. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing one
Kind or a variety of allergic diseases, such as asthma. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 17. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing one
Kind or various autoimmune disease, such as rheumatoid arthritis or multiple sclerosis. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 18. the composition according to any one of claim 7,8 or 9, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing one
Kind or a variety of metabolic disease/illnesss, such as diabetes or obesity. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the subject is weak aged subjects. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the subject is by caesarean deliveries
Baby. 
 
     
 
   
 
 21. composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the micropopulation diversity is described tested
Increase in the intestines of person and/or the micropopulation stability is induced in the intestines of the subject. 
 
     
 
   
 
 22. composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the micropopulation diversity is described tested
Increase in the distal gut of person and/or the micropopulation stability is induced in the distal gut of the subject. 
 
     
 
   
 
 23. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is hydrogen nutrition Blaw spy Salmonella
(Blautia hydrogenotrophica)。 
 
     
 
   
 
 24. composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition includes the bacterium of hydrogen nutrition Blaw spy's Salmonella species
Bacterial strain is used to increase micropopulation diversity and/or inducing microbial group's stability in subject of the diagnosis with IBS
In method. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 25. composition described in any one of -22 according to claim 1, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain has and hydrogen nutrition Blaw
The 16s rRNA sequence at least 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5% or 99.9% identical 16s rRNA of the bacterium bacterial strain of special Salmonella
Sequence. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 26. composition described in any one of -24 according to claim 1, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is with accession number DSM
10507 and also with the hydrogen nutrition Blaw spy Salmonella bacterium of 14294 preservation of accession number DSM. 
 
     
 
   
 
 27. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the composition is for being administered orally. 
 
     
 
   
 
 28. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the composition pharmaceutically may be used comprising one or more
The excipient or carrier of receiving. 
 
     
 
   
 
 29. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is freeze-drying. 
 
     
 
   
 
 30. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain is great-hearted. 
 
     
 
   
 
 31. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the bacterium bacterial strain can partially or even wholly exist
It is colonized in intestines. 
 
     
 
   
 
 32. composition according to any preceding claims, it includes the single bacterial strains of Blaw spy Bordetella. 
 
     
 
   
 
 33. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the composition includes Blaw spy Salmonella and do not wrap
Containing the bacterium belonged to from any other or include other such bacteriums of only pettiness amount. 
 
     
 
   
 
 34. composition according to any preceding claims, wherein the composition include hydrogen nutrition Blaw spy Salmonella simultaneously
And the bacterium from any other species or other such bacteriums comprising only pettiness amount are not included. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 35. composition described in any one of -30 according to claim 1, it includes Blaw spy Salmonellas as microbial flora
A part. 
 
     
 36. the food product comprising composition described in any preceding claims, is used for described in any preceding claims
Purposes. 
 
     
 37. the vaccine composition comprising composition described in any preceding claims, is used for any preceding claims institute
The purposes stated. 
 
     
 38. increasing or maintaining the intestinal microbiota diversity in subject and/or the intestinal microbiota in induction subject
The method of stability comprising to the composition of bacterium bacterial strain of the subject in need application comprising Blaw spy Bordetella. 
 
     
 
   
 
 39. according to the method for claim 36, wherein the Blaw spy Salmonella is hydrogen nutrition Blaw spy Salmonella. 
 
     
 40. the method for treating disease or illness, the disease or illness are selected from IBS, IBD, obesity, diabetes B, Yi Zhonghuo
Multi-infection disease, one or more allergic diseases, one or more autoimmune diseases and one or more metabolism
Disease/illness, wherein the method includes being diagnosed as subject with reduceds intestinal microbiota diversity level and/or
Reduced intestinal microbiota stability and then to bacterium bacterial strain of the subject application comprising Blaw spy Bordetella
Composition. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
