
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) albumen modified, it has sudden change at one or more amino-acid residue place, described one or more amino-acid residue is selected from the Isoleucine of N-end 163 and the L-glutamic acid of 165 of distance ODC, and described ODC has the aminoacid sequence represented by SEQIDNO:1. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the ODC albumen of modification according to claim 1, the L-glutamic acid of wherein said 165 is replaced by L-Ala, glycine, Serine or α-amino-isovaleric acid. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the ODC albumen of modification according to claim 1, the Isoleucine of wherein said 163 is replaced by L-Ala, glycine, Serine or α-amino-isovaleric acid. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the ODC albumen of modification according to claim 1, the Isoleucine of wherein said 163 and the L-glutamic acid of described 165 are replaced by Ala-Ala, alanine-valine, Serine-Valine or α-amino-isovaleric acid-α-amino-isovaleric acid respectively. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the ODC albumen of modification according to claim 1, it has any aminoacid sequence of SEQIDNO:34 to 57. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 6. the polynucleotide of the ODC albumen of the modification of coding according to any one of claim 1 to 5. 
 
     
 7. comprise the carrier of the polynucleotide of the ODC albumen of the modification of coding according to any one of claim 1 to 5. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. transform the transformant of the carrier of having the right described in requirement 7. 
 
     
 9. the step of the mixture prepare the method for putrescine, described method comprises makes L-Orn, comprising L-Orn or the ODC albumen test of L-Orn fermented liquid and the modification according to any one of claim 1 to 5. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method according to claim 9, the ODC albumen of wherein said modification is the ODC albumen of the modification of purifying or comprises the microbial fermentation solution of ODC albumen of described modification. 
 
     
 11. recombinant microorganisms, its product putrescine by changing the ODC albumen that becomes the modification according to any one of claim 1 to 5 had in certain microorganism of corynebacterium producing putrescine activity with improvement is active. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. recombinant microorganisms according to claim 11, certain microorganism of wherein said corynebacterium is corynebacterium glutamicum. 
 
     
 The method of 13. production putrescine, it comprises the following steps: 
 A () cultivates corynebacterium certain microorganism, by changing the ODC albumen of the modification become according to any one of claim 1 to 5, to have the product putrescine of improvement active for it; With 
 B () reclaims putrescine from the culture obtained step (a). 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. methods according to claim 13, certain microorganism of wherein said corynebacterium is corynebacterium glutamicum. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
