
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. antibody or its function fragment, itself and PGE
           2 the extracellular domain of receptor subtype EP4 combines specifically, and is not combined with EP1, EP2, EP3, suppresses PGE
           2 the function of receptor subtype EP4,
         
 Described PGE
           2 the function of receptor subtype EP4 makes intracellular cAMP concentration increase,
         
 Described antibody is monoclonal antibody, 
 Complementarity determining region 1 ~ 3 i.e. aminoacid sequence of CDR1 ~ 3 of described antibody or its function fragment meets any one in following (A), (B) or (C), 
 (A)： 
 As sequence numbering 5 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR1, 
 As sequence numbering 6 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR2, 
 As sequence numbering 7 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR3, 
 As sequence numbering 8 represent aminoacid sequence light chain CDR1, 
 As sequence numbering 9 represent aminoacid sequence light chain CDR2 and 
 As the light chain CDR3 of the aminoacid sequence that sequence numbering 10 represents, 
 (B)： 
 As sequence numbering 15 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR1, 
 As sequence numbering 16 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR2, 
 As sequence numbering 17 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR3, 
 As sequence numbering 18 represent aminoacid sequence light chain CDR1, 
 As sequence numbering 19 represent aminoacid sequence light chain CDR2 and 
 As the light chain CDR3 of the aminoacid sequence that sequence numbering 20 represents, 
 (C)： 
 As sequence numbering 45 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR1, 
 As sequence numbering 46 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR2, 
 As sequence numbering 47 represent aminoacid sequence heavy chain CDR3, 
 As sequence numbering 48 represent aminoacid sequence light chain CDR1, 
 As sequence numbering 49 represent aminoacid sequence light chain CDR2 and 
 As the light chain CDR3 of the aminoacid sequence that sequence numbering 50 represents. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. antibody according to claim 1 or its function fragment, is characterized in that, described antibody is produced by the hybridoma of international deposit number FERMBP-11402 and NBG016-mAb14, deposit number FERMBP-11403 and NBG016-mAb21. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. antibody according to claim 1 or its function fragment, is characterized in that, with PGE
           2 the extracellular domain of receptor subtype EP4 combines specifically, and the aminoacid sequence of its heavy chain variable domain and light chain variable region meets any one in following (a), (b) or (c),
         
 The light chain variable region of the heavy chain variable domain of a aminoacid sequence that () represents as sequence numbering 2 and the aminoacid sequence as sequence numbering 4 expression, 
 The light chain variable region of the heavy chain variable domain of b aminoacid sequence that () represents as sequence numbering 12 and the aminoacid sequence as sequence numbering 14 expression, 
 The light chain variable region of the heavy chain variable domain of c aminoacid sequence that () represents as sequence numbering 43 and the aminoacid sequence as sequence numbering 44 expression. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 4. the antibody according to any one of claims 1 to 3 or its function fragment, is characterized in that, is humanized antibody or chimeric antibody. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 5. the antibody according to any one of claims 1 to 3 or its function fragment, is characterized in that, is people's antibody. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 6. the antibody according to any one of claims 1 to 3 or its function fragment, is characterized in that, described function fragment is Fab, Fab', F (ab')
           2 , Fv, single-chain antibody, scFv, scFv dimer or dsFv.
         
 
     
 
   
 
 7. antibody according to claim 4 or its function fragment, is characterized in that, described function fragment is Fab, Fab', F (ab')
           2 , Fv, single-chain antibody, scFv, scFv dimer or dsFv.
         
 
     
 
   
 
 8. antibody according to claim 5 or its function fragment, is characterized in that, described function fragment is Fab, Fab', F (ab')
           2 , Fv, single-chain antibody, scFv, scFv dimer or dsFv.
         
 
     
 9. a medical composition, it comprises antibody according to any one of claim 1 ~ 8 or its function fragment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. medical composition according to claim 9, for preventing or treating because of PGE
           2 the dysfunction of receptor subtype EP4 and the disease of falling ill and/or being in progress.
         
 
     
 
   
 
 11. medical compositions according to claim 10, is characterized in that, treatment target disease is Immunological diseases. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. medical compositions according to claim 10, is characterized in that, treatment target disease is tumour. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. medical compositions according to claim 10, is characterized in that, treatment target disease is pain. 
 
     
 14. 1 kinds of antibody immobilization carrying body, the anti-EP4 antibody according to any one of claim 1 ~ 8 or its function fragment are immobilized in carrying body and are formed. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. antibody immobilization carrying body according to claim 14, is characterized in that, for containing PGE
           2 the contacting blood of receptor subtype EP4 express cell and remove EP4 express cell from described blood.
         
 
     
 16. 1 kinds of test kits, containing the antibody according to any one of claim 1 ~ 8, measure the PGE on cell surface
           2 receptor subtype EP4 expression amount.
         
 
     
 17. 1 kinds of nucleic acid, the heavy chain variable domain of the antibody of its coding described in claim 1 or 3 or light chain variable region, represented by sequence numbering 1, sequence numbering 3, sequence numbering 11, sequence numbering 13, sequence numbering 41, sequence numbering 42. 
 
     
 18. 1 kinds of carriers, it comprises nucleic acid according to claim 17. 
 
     
 19. 1 kinds of cells, it has imported carrier according to claim 18. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
