
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. the method producing cysteine or derivatives thereof, comprising: 
 1) recombinant microorganism that wherein endogenous phosphoserine phosphatase (SerB) activity reduces and pyrimidine nucleotide transhydrogenase (PntAB) activity improves further is cultivated, to produce O-phosphoserine (OPS)；And 
 2) O-phosphoserine mercapto solution enzyme (OPSS) or express OPSS microorganism exist under, make step 1) OPS and sulfide react, to produce cysteine or derivatives thereof, 
 Wherein said derivant is NAC (NAC) or S-Carbocisteine (SCMC). 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. method according to claim 1, wherein said phosphoserine phosphatase is the aminoacid sequence shown in SEQIDNO:1 or 2. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. method according to claim 1, wherein reduce enzymatic activity by the method selected from lower group: disappearance encode this enzyme chromogene, to chromogene introduces sudden change to reduce endogenous gene activity, with mutant gene substituted dyeing body gene reducing endogenous enzyme activity, introduce sudden change to the control region of gene active to reduce endogenous gene, and the antisense oligonucleotide of introducing and gene transcripts complementation is to suppress the translation of mRNA. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. method according to claim 3, the recombinant microorganism that wherein endogenous SerB activity is lowered is incubated in the culture medium containing glycine or serine. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. method according to claim 4, wherein the amount of the glycine contained by culture medium is 0.1～10g/L. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. method according to claim 4, the amount of wherein contained in culture medium serine is 0.1～5g/L. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further, to increase phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (SerA) or the activity of phosphoserine aminotransferase (SerC). 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. method according to claim 7, wherein SerA is wild type or the mutant of anti-serine feedback suppression. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. method according to claim 7, wherein: 
 I) SerA is a kind of aminoacid sequence selected from SEQIDNOS:3～7；And 
 Ii) SerC is the aminoacid sequence of SEQIDNO:8. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further, to reduce PhnCDE (phnC (ATP of phosphate ester transport protein EG10713 is in conjunction with component)-phnD (pericentral siphon of Pn transport protein EG10714 is in conjunction with component)-phnE (the integral membrane component of alkyl phosphate abc transport albumen EG11283)). 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further, to reduce alkali phosphatase (PhoA) or the activity of acid phosphatase (AphA). 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. method according to claim 1; wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further; to increase at least one activity selected from lower group of enzyme: arrange permease (YfiK), homoserine/homoserine lactone efflux protein (RhtB) and threonine/homoserine efflux protein (RhtC) outside O-acetyl-serine/cysteine. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 13. the method according to claim 7 or 12, wherein by increasing enzyme activity level selected from following method: increase the copy number of the gene of codase, introduce sudden change to gene control region to increase enzymatic activity, with mutant gene substituted dyeing body gene to increase enzymatic activity, and introduce sudden change to increase enzymatic activity to chromogene. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further, to reduce the activity of at least one enzyme selected from lower group: phosphoglycerate phosphomutase isozyme GpmA, GpmI or GpmB. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further, to reduce the activity of Serine dehydratase I (SdaA). 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further, to reduce 2-amino-3-ketone butanoic acid CoA ligase (Kbl) or the activity of transcription factor (IclR). 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. method according to claim 1; wherein said recombinant microorganism is modifiied further, to increase the activity of at least one enzyme selected from lower group: acetyl-CoA synzyme (Acs), Acetate kinase (AckA)-phosphotransacetylase (Pta), malate synthetase G (GlcB), malic dehydrogenase (MaeB), glutamte dehydrogenase (GdhA), glyoxylate carboligase (Glc), tartronate semialdehyde reductase 2 (GlxR) and glycerate kinase II (GlxK). 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. method according to claim 17, wherein said recombinant microorganism improves in sugar consumption and growth by increasing the activity of at least one enzyme selected from lower group: Glc, GlxR and GlxK. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant microorganism is Escherichia (Escherichiasp.) or corynebacterium (Coryneformbacteria). 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. method according to claim 1, wherein step 2) sulfide selected from lower group: Na 2 S、NaSH、(NH 4 ) 2 S、H 2 S、Na 2 S 2 O 3 With its combination. 
 
     
 
   
 
 21. method according to claim 1, wherein step 2) in the molar concentration of sulfide that uses be in enzymatic conversion 0.1～3 times of OPS used. 
 
     
 
   
 
 22. method according to claim 1, wherein step 2) OPSS be derived from least one selected from following strain: hyperthermophilic Gu bacterium (Aeropyrumpernix), Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mycobacteriumtuberculosis), mycobacterium smegmatis (Mycobacteriumsmegmatis) and trichomonal vaginitis (Trichomonasvaginalis). 
 
     
 
   
 
 23. method according to claim 22, wherein OPSS is modifiied further, to increase step 2) conversion ratio. 
 
     
 
   
 
 24. method according to claim 1, wherein under the existence selected from the cofactor of 0.001～2mMPLP (pyridoxal 5-phosphate ester), 0.001～100mMDTT (dithiothreitol, DTT) and its combination, carry out step 2) reaction. 
 
     
 
   
 
 25. method according to claim 1, it farther includes purifies and separates and purification cysteine or derivatives thereof. 
 
     
 26. recombinant microorganism, wherein the activity of endogenous SerB reduces, and at least one activity in SerA, SerC and PntAB improves further, the feedback suppression of the anti-serine of wherein said SerA. 
 
     
 27. recombinant microorganism, the wherein activity reduction of endogenous SerB, and activity at least one in PhnCDE, PhoA and AphA reduces further, and the activity of PntAB improves further. 
 
     
 28. recombinant microorganism, its preserving number is KCCM11103P. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
