
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. make the method that the weight percent of at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid in the total fatty acids of oil-containing Ye Shi yeast belong improves, described method comprises: 
 A) provide oil-containing Ye Shi yeast belong, described oil-containing Ye Shi yeast belong comprises: 
 1) gene of encode functional polyunsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic pathway, described gene comprises coding and is selected from least one gene that Δ 15 desaturase, Δ 6 desaturase and Δ 9 extend the enzyme of enzyme; With 
 2) the knocking out of natural gene of coding peroxidase body biosynthesizing factor protein, and 
 B) described Ye Shi yeast belong is grown under the following conditions: namely, the weight percent of at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid in the total fatty acids of described Ye Shi yeast belong is improved, and wherein said raising is the weight percent of the described at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid in the total fatty acids of the Ye Shi yeast belong be not knocked relative to the natural gene of wherein coding peroxidase body biosynthesizing factor protein. 
 
     
 2. improve the method for at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid relative to the weight percent of dry cell wt of oil-containing Ye Shi yeast belong, described method comprises: 
 A) provide oil-containing Ye Shi yeast belong, described oil-containing Ye Shi yeast belong comprises: 
 1) gene of encode functional polyunsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic pathway, described gene comprises coding and is selected from least one gene that Δ 15 desaturase, Δ 6 desaturase and Δ 9 extend the enzyme of enzyme; With 
 2) the knocking out of natural gene of coding peroxidase body biosynthesizing factor protein, and 
 B) described Ye Shi yeast belong is grown under the following conditions: namely, the at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid of Ye Shi yeast belong is improved relative to the weight percent of dry cell wt, and wherein said raising is the weight percent of described at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid relative to dry cell wt of the Ye Shi yeast belong be not knocked relative to the natural gene of wherein coding peroxidase body biosynthesizing factor protein. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the rising to of weight percent of the described at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid that the process of claim 1 wherein in described total fatty acids is increased at least 1.3 times. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 4. the method for claim 1 or 2, wherein said at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid is selected from: 
 The hydroxylation of gamma-linolenic acid, dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid, arachidonic acid, docosatetratenoic acid, ω-6 clupanodonic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, therapic acid, eicosatetraenoic acid, timnodonic acid, ω-3 clupanodonic acid, eicosadienoic acid, eicosatrienoic acid, docosahexenoic acid, these lipid acid or epoxyfatty acid, C
           18 polyunsaturated fatty acid, C
           20 polyunsaturated fatty acid and C
           22 polyunsaturated fatty acid.
         
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the method for claim 4, the weight percent of the combination of the polyunsaturated fatty acid in the total fatty acids of wherein Ye Shi yeast belong is enhanced. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 6. the method for claim 1 or 2, total lipid content in wherein said Ye Shi yeast belong is changed, and wherein said change is the total lipid content in the Ye Shi yeast belong be not knocked relative to the natural gene of wherein coding peroxidase body biosynthesizing factor protein. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 7. the method for claim 1 or 2, the gene of wherein said coding polyunsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic pathway also comprises the gene that coding is selected from the enzyme of lower group: 
 Δ 9 desaturase, Δ 12 desaturase, Δ 5 desaturase, Δ 17 desaturase, Δ 8 desaturase, Δ 4 desaturase, C
           14/16 extend enzyme, C
           16/18 extend enzyme, C
           18/20 extend enzyme and C
           20/22 extend enzyme.
         
 
     
 
   
   
 
 8. the method for claim 1 or 2, wherein said peroxysome biosynthesizing factor protein is selected from: 
 Pex1p, Pex2p, Pex3p, Pex3Bp, Pex4p, Pex5p, Pex5Bp, Pex5Cp, Pex5/20p, Pex6p, Pex7p, Pex8p, Pex10p, Pex12p, Pex13p, Pex14p, Pex15p, Pex16p, Pex17p, Pex14/17p, Pex18p, Pex19p, Pex20p, Pex21p, Pex21Bp, Pex22p, Pex22p sample and Pex26p. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the method for claim 8, wherein said peroxysome biosynthesizing factor protein is Pex3p. 
 
     
 10. Yarrowia lipolytica, it has ATCC and names ATCCPTA-8614. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. the process of claim 1 wherein that described polyunsaturated fatty acid is selected from gamma-linolenic acid, dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid, eicosatetraenoic acid and timnodonic acid. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 12. claims 8, the wherein said peroxysome biosynthesizing factor is Pex10p or Pex16p. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
