
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of recombinant microorganism for producing quinolinic acid, it is expressed is closed by the L-Aspartic acid oxidizing ferment and quinolinic acid of joint connection
Into the fusion protein of enzyme, wherein the joint is made up of 5~30 amino acid, and the microorganism is Escherichia coli
( E.coli )。 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. recombinant microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the L-Aspartic acid oxidizing ferment and quinoline acid enzyme point
It is not made up of the SEQ ID NO.42 and SEQ ID NO.43 amino acid sequences represented. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. recombinant microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the joint is by LA (EAAAK) nAAA or L (GGGS) nAAA
Amino acid sequence composition, wherein each n be 1~5 integer. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. recombinant microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the joint by selected from SEQ ID NO.54,55,56,57,
58th, 59 and 60 amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. recombinant microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the fusion protein by selected from SEQ ID NO.47,48,49,
50th, 51,52 and 53 amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. recombinant microorganism according to claim 1, wherein quinolinic acid phosphoryl glycosyltransferase it is active with it is natural micro-
Intrinsic activity in biology, which is compared, further to be weakened. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. recombinant microorganism according to claim 6, wherein the activity of the quinolinic acid phosphoryl glycosyltransferase passes through
Weaken selected from following method：1) the part or all of missing of the gene of codase, 2) expression regulation sequence is modified with
Reduce the expression of the gene, 3) gene order on chromosome is modified, so that the activity of the protein subtracts
It is weak, and 4) combinations thereof. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. recombinant microorganism according to claim 1, wherein selected from phosphoric acid enol pyruvic acid carboxylase, L-Aspartic acid
The activity of one or more protein in transaminase and the fusion protein is further augmented. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. recombinant microorganism according to claim 8, wherein the protein active selected from following method by strengthening：
1) copy number of the gene of the increase coding enzyme, 2) expression regulation sequence is modified to increase the expression of the gene,
3) gene order on chromosome is modified, to strengthen the activity of the enzyme, and 4) combinations thereof. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. recombinant microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the identification accession number of the microorganism be KCCM11235P or
KCCM11236P。 
 
     
 11. the method for quinolinic acid is produced, including： 
 (a) recombinant microorganism is cultivated in the culture medium containing carbon source, connected by joint L- days of the recombinant microorganisms express
The fusion protein of winter amino acid oxidase and quinoline acid enzyme, wherein the joint is made up of 5~30 amino acid, and it is described
Microorganism be Escherichia coli ( E.coli )；And 
 (b) recovery caused quinolinic acid in the incubation. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
