
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. preparation comprises the method for the carotenoid of astaxanthin, it is characterized in that: be included in the substratum containing vitamin H cultivate produce simultaneously astaxanthin and canthaxanthin belong to paracoccus (
           paracoccus ) the step of bacterium, wherein, the bacterium of nucleotide sequence more than 99% homology that the nucleotide sequence of the DNA of described bacterium corresponding to 16S ribosome-RNA(rRNA) and SEQIDNO:1 record, and, compared with the culture after not terminating containing the cultivation in the substratum of vitamin H, in the culture after above-mentioned cultivation terminates, canthaxanthin is low with the ratio of the production concentration of astaxanthin.
         
 
     
 
   
 
 2. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: in substratum, the concentration of vitamin H is 0.001mg/L ~ 50mg/L. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: cultivating canthaxanthin in the culture after terminating is below 25 quality % with the ratio of the production concentration of astaxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: the generation concentration of cultivating gluconic acid in the culture after terminating is below 30g/L. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: in cultivation, controls the oxyty in culture at more than 1ppm. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: cultivate poly-based on dried cellular in the culture after terminating
           β the content of-hydroxybutyric acid and PHB is below 30 quality %.
         
 
     
 
   
 
 7. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: in cultivation, controls at more than 1ppm by the oxyty in culture, and in the culture after cultivation is terminated, canthaxanthin is below 25 quality % with the ratio of the production concentration of astaxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: in cultivation, controls at more than 2.5ppm by the oxyty in culture, and in the culture after cultivation is terminated, canthaxanthin is below 8 quality % with the ratio of the production concentration of astaxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. method according to claim 1, is characterized in that: in cultivation, and the oxyty controlled in culture makes it periodically or continuously to raise. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method according to claim 1, it is characterized in that: the initial stage oxyty of cultivating in the culture in mid-term controlled at 1 ~ 2.5ppm and periodically or continuously improve oxyty, in the culture after cultivation is terminated, canthaxanthin is below 25 quality % with the ratio of the production concentration of astaxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. methods according to claim 1, it is characterized in that: the initial stage oxyty of cultivating in the culture in mid-term controlled at 2 ~ 3.5ppm and periodically or continuously improve oxyty, in the culture after cultivation is terminated, canthaxanthin is below 8 quality % with the ratio of the production concentration of astaxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. methods according to claim 1, is characterized in that: bacterium is the mutant strain that PHB throughput is reduced. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. methods according to claim 1, is characterized in that: bacterium is the mutant strain that gluconic acid throughput is reduced. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. methods according to claim 1, is characterized in that: bacterium is E-396 strain (FERMBP-4283) or A-581-1 strain (FERMBP-4671). 
 
     
 15. feed carotenoid compositions, it is characterized in that: be the composition comprising the carotenoid of astaxanthin containing utilizing the method described in claim 1 to prepare, wherein, in prepared carotenoid, canthaxanthin is below 15 quality % with the ratio of astaxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. feed carotenoid compositions according to claim 15, is characterized in that: the prepared PHB content in the carotenoid of astaxanthin that comprises is below 20 quality %. 
 
     
 17. food carotenoid compositions, it is characterized in that: be the composition comprising the carotenoid of astaxanthin containing utilizing the method described in claim 1 to prepare, wherein, in prepared carotenoid, canthaxanthin is below 8 quality % with the ratio of astaxanthin. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
