
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. the nucleic acid molecule of the separation as shown in SEQ ID NO:13. 
 
     
 2. one kind comprises the mosaic gene of the nucleic acid molecule of the separation of the claim 1 of the adjustment sequence being operably connected suitable. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. one kind comprises the expression cassette of the mosaic gene of claim 2. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. one kind comprises the microorganism of the conversion of the mosaic gene of claim 2. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. one kind comprises the microorganism of the conversion of the expression cassette of claim 3. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the microorganism of the conversion of claim 4, wherein said microorganism is selected from: comamonas (Comamonas sp.), coryneform bacteria (Corynebacteriumsp.), tyrothricin (Brevibacteriumsp.), rhodococcus (Rhodococcus sp.), vinelandii (Azotobactersp.), citric acid bacillus (Citrobacter sp.), enterobacteria (Enterobacter sp.), clostridium (Clostridium sp.), Klebsiella pneumoniae (Klebsiella sp.), Salmonellas (Salmonella sp.), lactobacillus (Lactobacillus sp.), aspergillus (Aspergillus sp.), sugar yeast (Saccharomyces sp.), zygosaccharomyces (Zygosaccharomyces sp.), pichia (Pichia sp.), Kluyveromyces yeasts (Kluyveromyces sp.), candiyeast (Candida sp.), Chinese Sen Shi yeast (Hansenula sp.), Dunaliella salina (Dunaliella sp.), Debaryomyces (Debaryomyces sp.), Mucor (Mucor sp.), torulopsis (Torulopsis sp.), Methylobacterium (Methylobacteria sp.), genus bacillus (Bacillussp.), escherich's bacillus (Escherichia sp.), pseudomonas (Pseudomonas sp.), root nodule bacterium (Rhizobiumsp.) and streptomycete (Streptomyces sp.). 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the microorganism of the conversion of claim 6, the host cell of the microorganism of wherein said conversion is a kind of coli strain, is selected from MG1655 that preserving number is ATCC 47076, W1485 that MC4100 that W3110 that FM5 that preserving number is ATCC 53911, preserving number are ATCC 27325, preserving number are ATCC 35695 and preserving number are ATCC 12435. 
 
     
 8. one kind for being hydrolyzed to the method for 3-hydroxycarboxylic acid by 3-hydroxyl nitrile, comprise step: the 3-hydroxyl nitrile in reacting mixture solution contacts with nitrilase catalyst by (a), described 3-hydroxyl nitrile is hydrolyzed to corresponding 3-hydroxycarboxylic acid thus, coded by the nucleic acid molecule of the separation that described nitrilase catalyst is claim 1; (b) the 3-hydroxycarboxylic acid of the optionally middle generation of separating step (a). 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the method for claim 8, wherein said 3-hydroxyl nitrile is 3-hydroxyvaleronitrile or 3-hydroxybutyronitrile. 
 
     
 10. one kind for being hydrolyzed to the method for 3-hydroxypentanoic acid by 3-hydroxyvaleronitrile, comprise step: the nitrilase catalyst of the 3-hydroxyvaleronitrile in reacting mixture solution with the nucleic acid molecule encoding be separated of claim 1 contacts by (a), described 3-hydroxyvaleronitrile is hydrolyzed to 3-hydroxypentanoic acid thus; (b) the 3-hydroxypentanoic acid of the optionally middle generation of separating step (a). 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
