
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. the nucleic acid molecule that separates, the nucleic acid molecule of described separation is selected from: 
 (a) nucleotide sequence of the separation of Δ 4 desaturases shown in the coding SEQ ID NO:4; With 
 (b) with the nucleotide sequence that separates of (a) complete complementary. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the nucleic acid molecule of the separation of claim 1, the nucleic acid molecule of described separation is shown in SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
     
 3. the polypeptide of coded delta 4 desaturase SEQ ID NO:4. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. comprise the mosaic gene of nucleic acid molecule of the separation of claim 1, the nucleic acid molecule of described separation may be operably coupled at least a regulating and controlling sequence. 
 
     
 5. Ye Shi yeast belong host cell, described host cell comprises the nucleotide sequence of the separation of claim 1. 
 
     
 6. the method for preparing polyunsaturated fatty acid, described polyunsaturated fatty acid are selected from docosahexenoic acid and complete-cis-4,7,10,13, the 16-clupanodonic acid, and described method comprises: 
 A) provide host cell, described host cell comprises: 
 (i) nucleic acid molecule of the separation of the Δ 4 desaturase polypeptide shown in the coding SEQ ID NO:4; With 
 (ii) be selected from the source lipid acid of complete-22:5OMEGA-3 and docosatetratenoic acid; 
 B) host cell that makes step (a) changes at the nucleic acid fragment of expressing the described Δ 4 desaturase polypeptide of coding and with described source lipid acid and is selected from docosahexenoic acid and complete-cis-4,7,10,13, grow under the condition of the polyunsaturated fatty acid of 16-clupanodonic acid 
 So that when complete-when 22:5OMEGA-3 was described source lipid acid, then docosahexenoic acid was the polyunsaturated fatty acid that produces; And 
 When docosatetratenoic acid is described source lipid acid, then entirely-cis-4,7,10,13, the 16-clupanodonic acid is the polyunsaturated fatty acid that produces; With 
 C) polyunsaturated fatty acid that randomly produces in the recycling step (b). 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the method for claim 6, wherein: 
 A) nucleic acid molecule of described separation has the nucleotide sequence shown in the SEQ ID NO:3; And 
 B) described host cell is the Ye Shi yeast belong. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
