
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. there is the mutant polypeptide of the desaturase of Δ -5 activity, wherein the mutant polypeptide and SEQ ID NO:21、SEQ ID
NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:29 with least 90% amino acid sequence identity, and comprising： 
 (a) such as SEQ ID NO:Amino acid motif shown in 11 [HPGs]；With 
 (b) such as SEQ ID NO:Amino acid motif shown in 18 [HDAgH], 
 Wherein described mutant polypeptide such as SEQ ID NO:Shown in 187 amino acid sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. mutant polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein the dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid of the mutant polypeptide is to arachidonic
The transformation efficiency of acid is the dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid of parental polypeptide at least the 64% of arachidonic transformation efficiency, the parent
This polypeptide is included and SEQ ID NO:7 [HPGG] identical amino acid motifs and with SEQ ID NO:8 [HDASH] identical amino
Acidic group sequence. 
 
     
 3. the nucleic acid molecules for separate, the polypeptide described in the nucleic acid molecule encoding claim 1 or 2 of the separation. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the nucleic acid molecules of separation according to claim 3, the nucleic acid molecules such as SEQ ID NO of the separation:186
Shown in the nucleotide sequence of [EgD5S-36s158g]. 
 
     
 5. the host cell for converting, the polypeptide described in the host cell expression claim 1 or 2 of the conversion, wherein described turn
The host cell of change is not plant cell. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the host cell of conversion according to claim 5, the host cell of the conversion is microorganism. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the host cell of conversion according to claim 6, wherein the microbial host cell is saccharomyces olei. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. the host cell of conversion according to claim 7, wherein the saccharomyces olei is Yarrowia lipolytica
(Yarrowia lipolytica)。 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 9. the host cell of the conversion according to claim 5 or 8, wherein the host cell is produced is selected from ω -6 aliphatic acid
With the polyunsaturated fatty acid of omega-fatty acid. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
