
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of self-contained film composition in powder type of self film under agitation in the presence of a liquid medium, the composition
Comprising： 
 (i) at least one gelling agent in powder type, 
 (ii) at least one bioadhesive polymer in powder type, and 
 (iii) at least one lactic acid bacteria strains in powder type, 
 Wherein (i), (ii) and (iii) is in single container or in a separate container； 
 Wherein described self film composition administers locally to； 
 Wherein described (i) at least one gelling agent is in the amount for being used to provide viscosity for the composition, and is selected from consisting of
Group：(a) starch, (b) glue, (c) algal polysaccharides, (d) are selected from the polysaccharide for the group that pectin and maltodextrin form, (e) cellulose
Derivative, (f) are selected from the polypeptide of the group of gelatin, collagen and casein composition；And 
 Wherein described (ii) at least one bioadhesive polymer is in be used to provide the amount of adhesiveness for the composition, and be selected from
The group of lower composition：(a) glue, (b) algal polysaccharides, (c) cellulose derivative, (d) are selected from the group that pectin and maltodextrin form
Polysaccharide, and (e) are selected from the group of the polymer based on acrylate, the polymer based on vinyl and cationic polysaccharide composition
Polymer. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the self-contained film composition according to claim 1 in powder type, wherein the gelling agent and the biological slime
Attached dose does not have bactericidal effect at least one lactic acid bacteria. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the self-contained film composition according to claim 2 in powder type, wherein the gelling agent and the biological slime
Attached dose does not have bacteriostasis at least one lactic acid bacteria. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the self-contained film composition according to claim 3 in powder type, wherein the gelling agent or the biological slime
Attached dose has prebiotic function at least one lactic acid bacteria. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 5. the self-contained film composition according to any one of claim 1 to 4, wherein the gelling agent is selected from glue and seaweed is more
The group of sugar composition and the bioadhesive polymer are selected from the group of cellulose derivative and the polymer composition based on vinyl. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 6. the self-contained film composition according to any one of claim 1 to 5, wherein the lactic acid bacteria strains belong to piece coccus
Belong to. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. self-contained film composition according to claim 6, wherein the Pediococcus bacterial strain is selected from group consisting of：With
Bacterial strain, bacterial strain CECT 8904, bacterial strain CECT 8905, the bacterial strain CECT 8906 of 8903 preservations of accession number CECT. 
 
     
 8. a kind of self-contained film composition in powder type of self film under agitation in the presence of a liquid medium, the composition
Comprising： 
 (i) reagent in powder type of at least one group formed selected from gelling agent and bioadhesive polymer, and 
 (ii) at least one Pediococcus bacterial strain in powder type, 
 Wherein (i) and (ii) be in single container or in a separate container. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. self-contained film composition according to claim 8, wherein the Pediococcus bacterial strain is selected from group consisting of：With
Bacterial strain, bacterial strain CECT 8904, bacterial strain CECT 8905, the bacterial strain CECT 8906 of 8903 preservations of accession number CECT. 
 
     
 10. a kind of method for being used to prepare reconstituted formula, comprising mixing under agitation according to any one of claim 1 to 9 institute
The self-contained film composition and liquid medium in powder type stated. 
 
     
 11. a kind of reconstituted formula, can be obtained by the method according to claim 11. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. reconstituted formula according to claim 11, wherein gelling agent and bioadhesive polymer in the final reconstituted formula
The amount of every kind of reagent is 0.05 to 20% (w/v). 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. reconstituted formula according to claim 12, wherein in the final reconstituted formula, the amount of gelling agent is 1 to arrive
The amount of 5% (w/v) and bioadhesive polymer is 4 to 10% (w/v). 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 14. according to any one of claim 1 to 9 in the self-contained film composition of powder type or according to claim 11
To the reconstituted formula any one of 13, as medicine. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 15. according to any one of claim 1 to 9 in the self-contained film composition of powder type or according to claim 11
To the reconstituted formula any one of 13, for preventing and/or treating the patient's condition selected from group consisting of：Bone regeneration around implant
Inflammation, catarrh, periodontitis, gum disease, carious tooth, thrush, herpes labialis and warts. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 16. a kind of want according to any one of claim 1 to 9 in the self-contained film composition of powder type or according to right
The purposes of the reconstituted formula any one of 11 to 13 is sought, for oral care. 
 
     
 17. a kind of kit used for oral cavity, comprising： 
 1) according to any one of claim 1 to 9 in the self-contained film composition of powder type or according to claim 11
To the reconstituted formula any one of 13；With 
 2) be used for by according to any one of claim 1 to 9 in the self-contained film composition of powder type or according to right
It is required that the reconstituted formula any one of 11 to 13 is applied to the device of buccal cavity. 
 
     
 A kind of 18. separated bacterial strain for belonging to Pediococcus, for preventing and/or treating selected from peri-implantitiss and catarrh
The patient's condition of the group of composition. 
 
     
 A kind of 19. separated bacterial strain for belonging to Pediococcus for being deposited in Spain's Type Tissue Collection, selected from following
The group of composition：With the bacterial strain of 8903 preservations of accession number CECT, bacterial strain CECT 8904, bacterial strain CECT 8905 and bacterial strain CECT
8906。 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
