
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of expression casette that psicose epimerase is produced in corynebacterium, including： 
 Encode the nucleotide sequence of psicose epimerase；The nucleotide sequence is operably connected to in upstream simultaneously
And the regulatory sequence of the nucleotide sequence expression is adjusted in corynebacterium, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes promoter,
The promoter includes SEQ ID NO：1、SEQ ID NO：63、SEQ ID NO：64 or SEQ ID NO：65 nucleotides sequence
Row. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. expression casette according to claim 1, wherein, the regulatory sequence further comprises being selected from by ribosomes knot
Close at least one sequence in the group of site (RBS) sequence, spacer sequence and joint sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the ribosome bind site sequence is to include SEQ ID
NO：The size of 2 nucleotide sequence is 7~20bp nucleotide sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes the RBS of at least 1~5 copy
Sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the joint sequence is the nucleotides that size is 5~100bp
Sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the spacer sequence includes being selected from by SEQ ID NO：3
To SEQ ID NO：First spacer sequence of the group of 6 nucleotide sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the spacer sequence includes being selected from by SEQ ID NO：7
To SEQ ID NO：Second spacer sequence of the group of 11 nucleotide sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes promoter, the first ribosomes knot
Close site (RBS) sequence and the first spacer sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes promoter, the first ribosomes knot
Close site (RBS) sequence, the first spacer sequence and 3 ' ends of the first spacer region are connected to directly or by joint sequence
2nd RBS sequences. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes promoter, the first ribosomes knot
Close site (RBS) sequence, first spacer sequence, be connected to directly or by joint sequence the first spacer region 3 ' ends the
Two RBS sequences and the second spacer sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. expression casette according to claim 8, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes SEQ ID NO：1 promoter
Nucleotide sequence, SEQ ID NO：2 RBS sequences and selected from by SEQ ID NO：3 to SEQ ID NO：The first of the group of 6 compositions
Spacer sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. expression casette according to claim 11, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes being selected from by SEQ ID NO：13
To SEQ ID NO：The nucleotide sequence of the group of 16 sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. expression casette according to claim 9, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes being selected from by 13 to SEQ ID
NO：The nucleotide sequence and SEQ ID NO of the group of 16 sequence composition：12 joint sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. expression casette according to claim 10, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes： 
 SEQ ID NO：1 promoter nucleotide sequence； 
 SEQ ID NO：2 RBS nucleotide sequences； 
 Selected from by SEQ ID NO：3 to SEQ ID NO：First spacer sequence of the group of 6 sequence composition； 
 SEQ ID NO：2 RBS nucleotide sequences；With 
 Selected from by SEQ ID NO：7 to SEQ ID NO：Second spacer sequence of the group of 11 sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. expression casette according to claim 2, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes having SEQ ID NO：63、
SEQ ID NO：64 or SEQ ID NO：The promoter of 65 nucleotide sequence；Described open is connected to directly or by joint sequence
First RBS of 3 ' ends of mover；With the second spacer sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. expression casette according to claim 15, wherein, the joint sequence is selected from by with SEQ ID NO：
66、SEQ ID NO：67 or SEQ ID NO：The group of 68 nucleotide sequence composition, second spacer sequence is selected from by having
There are SEQ ID NO：7 to SEQ ID NO：The group of 11 nucleotide sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. expression casette according to claim 1, wherein, the corynebacterium is selected from the group consisted of
At least one of：Corynebacterium glutamicum (Corynebacterium glutamicum), vinegar paddy corynebacteria
(Corynebacterium acetoglutamicum), thermophilic acetoacetate corynebacteria (Corynebacterium
Acetoacidophilum), hot corynebacterium ammoniagenes (Corynebacterium thermoaminogenes), molasses of dwelling are bar-shaped
Bacillus (Corynebacterium melassecola) and effective corynebacteria (Corynebacterium efficiens). 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. expression casette according to claim 1, wherein, the psicose epimerase is from flicker clostridium
(Clostridiun scidens), Pu Shi treponemas (Treponema primitia), adhesion sword bacterium (Ensifer
) or Ruminococcus torques (Ruminococcus torques) adhaerens. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. expression casette according to claim 18, wherein, the psicose epimerase is selected from by SEQ
ID NO：33 to SEQ ID NO：Amino acid sequence in the group of 36 amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. expression casette according to claim 19, wherein, the nucleotides of the coding psicose epimerase
Sequence is selected from by SEQ ID NO：37 to SEQ ID NO：The nucleotide sequence of the group of 44 nucleotide sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 21. a kind of carrier of the expression cassette including described in claim 1. 
 
     
 22. a kind of carrier, it includes：Positioned at the upstream of nucleotide sequence interested and adjust the nucleotides interested
The regulatory sequence of the expression of sequence, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes：Promoter, the promoter includes SEQ ID NO：1、
SEQ ID NO：63、SEQ ID NO：64 or SEQ ID NO：65 nucleotide sequence；First ribosomes land (RBS) sequence
Row；With the first spacer sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 23. carrier according to claim 22, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes the ribosomes knot of at least 1~5 copy
Site sequence is closed, the ribosome bind site sequence is size for 7~20bp nucleotide sequence and including SEQ ID
NO：2 nucleotide sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 24. carrier according to claim 22, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes promoter, the first RBS sequences, first
Spacer sequence and be connected to directly or by joint sequence the first spacer region 3 ' ends the 2nd RBS sequences. 
 
     
 
   
 
 25. carrier according to claim 22, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes promoter, the first RBS sequences, first
Spacer sequence, be connected to directly or by joint sequence the first spacer region 3 ' ends the 2nd RBS sequences and the second interval
Region sequence. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 26. the carrier according to any one of claim 22-24, wherein, first spacer sequence includes modification
Nucleotide sequence, wherein SEQ ID NO：The first base and the second base in 3 nucleotide sequence be replaced into GA, GT or
GC。 
 
     
 
   
 
 27. carrier according to claim 25, wherein, the SEQ ID NO：First in 3 the first spacer sequence
Base and the second base are TT, and second spacer sequence includes the nucleotide sequence of modification, wherein SEQ ID NO：7 core
The first base and the second base in nucleotide sequence are replaced into GA, GT, GC or GG. 
 
     
 
   
 
 28. carrier according to claim 25, wherein, first spacer sequence includes the nucleotide sequence of modification,
Wherein SEQ ID NO：The first base and the second base in 3 nucleotide sequence are replaced between GA, GT or GC, described second
Spacer sequences include the nucleotide sequence of modification, wherein SEQ ID NO：The first base and the second alkali in 7 nucleotide sequence
Base is replaced into TT, GA, GT, GC or GG. 
 
     
 
   
 
 29. carrier according to claim 26, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes being selected from by SEQ ID NO：14 to SEQ
ID NO：The nucleotide sequence of the group of 16 sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 30. carrier according to claim 27, wherein, the regulatory sequence includes being selected from by SEQ ID NO：18 to SEQ
ID NO：The nucleotide sequence of the group of 32 sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 31. the carrier according to claim 24 or 25, wherein, the joint sequence is the nucleotides that size is 5~100bp
Sequence. 
 
     
 
   
 
 32. carrier according to claim 22, wherein, the carrier further comprises being selected from by replication orgin, leading sequence
At least one sequence in the group that row, selected marker, cloning site and Restriction Enzyme recognition site are constituted. 
 
     
 33. a kind of recombinant coryneform bacterium belongs to host cell, including the expression casette described in claim 1, or by including right
It is required that the carrier conversion of the expression casette described in 1. 
 
     
 
   
 
 34. recombinant coryneform bacterium according to claim 33 belongs to host cell, wherein, the corynebacterium be selected from by
Corynebacterium glutamicum, vinegar paddy corynebacteria, thermophilic acetoacetate corynebacteria, hot corynebacterium ammoniagenes, molasses corynebacteria of dwelling
At least one of group constituted with effective corynebacteria. 
 
     
 35. a kind of composition for being used to produce psicose epimerase, including：Selected from by by using recombinant coryneform bacterium
Belong to the psicose epimerase obtained, recombinant cell, the culture of the recombinant cell, the lysate of the recombinant cell
At least one of group constituted with the extract of cell culture or cell lysate, wherein, the recombinant coryneform bacterium category
As the expression casette described in claim 1 or as the carrier conversion including the expression casette described in claim 1. 
 
     
 36. a kind of method for producing psicose epimerase, including： 
 Cultivate and cell is belonged to as the recombinant coryneform bacterium that the carrier including the expression casette described in claim 1 is converted, and 
 Make the substrate containing fructose with being reacted selected from least one of group consisted of：It is derived from the recombinant coryneform bar
The psicose epimerase of the culture of Pseudomonas, recombinant cell, the culture of the recombinant cell, the recombinant cell
The extract of lysate and cell culture or cell lysate. 
 
     
 
   
 
 37. method according to claim 36, wherein, reactions steps by make the substrate containing fructose with by described
The holder contact that psicose epimerase or the recombinant cell are fixed. 
 
     
 
   
 
 38. method according to claim 36, wherein, methods described further comprises adding at least one metal ion
Step, the metal ion select free copper ion, manganese ion, calcium ion, magnesium ion, zinc ion, nickel ion, cobalt ions, iron from
The group that son and aluminium ion are constituted. 
 
     
 
   
 
 39. method according to claim 36, wherein, it is 40~75 (w/ that the substrate containing fructose, which includes concentration,
W) % fructose. 
 
     
 
   
 
 40. method according to claim 36, wherein, methods described is in the condition that pH is 6~9 and temperature is 40~80 DEG C
It is lower to carry out. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
