
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. Salmonella gallinarum (Salmonella Gallinarum) bacterial strain of modification, wherein pathogenic by inactivating salmonella
The full gene cluster of pathogenicity island -2 reduces. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified described in claim 1, wherein further inactivation is selected from salmonella pathogenicity island -1
At least one of the gene cluster of full gene cluster, spvRABCD gene cluster and faeHI. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified described in claim 1, wherein SEQ ID NO：2 salmonella pathogenicity island -2 it is complete
Portion's gene cluster is removed (SG3-d2). 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified described in claim 3, it is deposited under accession number KCCM11009P. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified described in claim 1, wherein SEQ ID NO：1 salmonella pathogenicity island -1 and
SEQ ID NO：The gene cluster of 2 salmonella pathogenicity island -2 is removed (SG3-d1d2). 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified described in claim 5, it is deposited under accession number KCCM11010P. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 7. the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified any one of claim 1 to 6, it, which is used to producing salmonella specificity, splits
Solve bacteriophage. 
 
     
 8. the pharmaceutical composition for preventing or treating avian typhoid, including the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified described in claim 1
It is used as active ingredient. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the pharmaceutical composition described in claim 8, wherein the composition is vaccine. 
 
     
 10. feed addictive, including the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain modified described in claim 1 is as active ingredient. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. the Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain of the modification described in claim 1 is used for the fowl for preparing the Salmonella gallinarum infection for the treatment of animal
The application of the medicine of typhoid fever. 
 
     
 12. the method for bacteriophage is produced, including： 
 The Salmonella gallinarum bacterial strain of the modification described in claim 1 is cultivated in the medium； 
 The bacteriophage is inoculated into the culture medium；With 
 Bacteriophage progeny is reclaimed from the culture medium. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
