
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of embryonic stem cell, it is to the H2-D molecules of mouse MHC I classes in the presence of GSK3 inhibitor and mek inhibitor
In the embryo of mouse of all or part of domain domain for being replaced HLA-A molecules for people's MHC I classes cultivated
Obtained from. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. embryonic stem cell according to claim 1, wherein, the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and the microballoons of β 2 of H2-D molecules
Protein structure domain is replaced the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and β2-microglobulin domain for people's HLA-A molecules respectively. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 3. embryonic stem cell according to claim 1 or 2, its preserving number is represented with NITE BP-02068. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 4. according to embryonic stem cell according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein, it is imported with female hormone receptor gene and white
Larynx toxin gene. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. embryonic stem cell according to claim 4, wherein, endogenic growth hormone gene is replaced into source in cell
From the gene of people. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. embryonic stem cell according to claim 5, wherein, endogenic drug metabolism enzyme gene is also replaced in cell
For the gene from people. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. embryonic stem cell according to claim 6, wherein, in cell endogenic drug metabolism enzyme gene be selected from by
It is at least one kind of in the group of Cyp3a11, Cyp3a13, Cyp3a25 and Cyp3a41 composition. 
 
     
 8. a kind of mouse, it is the embryonic stem cell making any one of usage right requirement 1~3. 
 
     
 9. a kind of mouse, it is the embryonic stem cell making any one of usage right requirement 4~7. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. mouse according to claim 9, wherein, cause hepatocellular injury by bestowing antiestrogenic agent. 
 
     
 11. a kind of liver is by the mouse of humanization, it is characterised in that to liver of the mouse transplanting from people described in claim 9
Cell, and bestow antiestrogenic agent and remove the liver cell from the mouse. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. mouse according to claim 11, wherein, the liver cell from people is derived from the patient's with liver diseases
Liver cell. 
 
     
 13. a kind of people's liver diseases model mice, it includes the mouse described in claim 12. 
 
     
 14. a kind of manufacture method of the embryonic stem cell from mouse, it is characterised in that in GSK3 inhibitor and mek inhibitor
In the presence of, all or part of domain in the H2-D molecules of mouse MHC I classes is replaced for HLA-A points of people's MHC I classes
The embryo of the mouse of the domain of son is cultivated. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. the method according to claim 11, wherein, the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and the β2-microglobulin of H2-D molecules
Domain is replaced the domains of α 1, the domains of α 2 and β2-microglobulin domain for people's HLA-A molecules respectively. 
 
     
 16. a kind of preparation method of liver damage model mouse, it is characterised in that bestowed to the mouse described in claim 9 anti-
Estrogenic agents. 
 
     
 17. a kind of liver is by the preparation method of the mouse of humanization, it is characterised in that is transplanted to the mouse described in claim 9
Liver cell from people, and bestow antiestrogenic agent and remove the liver cell from mouse. 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. according to the method for claim 17, wherein, the liver cell from people is from the patient's with liver diseases
Liver cell. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
