
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. Escherichia (Escherichia) microorganism that strengthens of L-amino acids production power, wherein said microorganism has the intestinal bacteria (E.coli) of L-amino acids production power and it has the NAD kinase expression of enhancing and the enzyme deactivation with the aminoacid sequence of SEQIDNO.2 of tehB genes encoding through transforming. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said NAD kinases is the protein of the aminoacid sequence with SEQIDNO.4. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein strengthens the kinase whose expression of described NAD by one or more methods following: inserted by karyomit(e) or vector introduction increase copy number, replace or modify expression regulation district, and transgenation. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said inactivation is undertaken by one or more in following method: by homologous recombination lack part or full gene, express by inserting transposon inhibitory enzyme in corresponding gene, and express by inserting antibiotics resistance gene inhibitory enzyme. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said L-amino acid is L-threonine or L-Trp. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. microorganism according to claim 5, wherein said Escherichia microorganism belonging to genus provides sucrose assimilative capacity. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein said Escherichia microorganism belonging to genus is the intestinal bacteria producing L-threonine, and deposit number is the CA03-448 of KCCM11167P, or deposit number is the CA03-449 of KCCM11168P. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. microorganism according to claim 1, the product L-Trp intestinal bacteria CA04-2001 of wherein said Escherichia microorganism belonging to genus to be deposit number be KCCM11166P. 
 
     
 9. produce L-amino acid whose method, comprise the following steps: using the Escherichia microbial inoculant according to any one of claim 1-8 and be incubated at all or part of containing sucrose or glucose as in the substratum of carbon source; Described L-amino acid is separated with from described substratum. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method according to claim 9, wherein said L-amino acid is L-threonine or L-Trp. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
