
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. one kind be used for the antibody-drug conjugates used in cancer immunotherapy (ADC), wherein this using include should
ADC and immunization therapy (IMT) agent are administered in combination in patient, and with single therapy when reach treatment validity needed for the ADC
And/or the corresponding dosage of the IMT agent is compared, the ADC and/or the IMT agent are applied with lower dosage. 
 
     
 2. a kind of for immune-mediated treatment (IMT) agent used in the cancer immunotherapy, wherein this using include should
IMT agent and antibody-drug conjugates (ADC) are administered in combination in patient, and with single therapy when reaches needed for treatment validity
The IMT agent and/or the corresponding dosage of the ADC compare, the IMT agent and/or the ADC are applied with lower dosage. 
 
     
 3. one kind is used for the antibody-drug conjugates used in cancer immunotherapy (ADC) and immune-mediated treatment (IMT)
Agent, it includes by the ADC and IMT agent combined administration in patient that wherein this, which is used, and 
 A. compared with dosage needed for reaching treatment validity when single therapy, which is applied with lower dosage；Or 
 B. compared with dosage needed for reaching treatment validity when single therapy, which is applied with lower dosage；Or 
 C. compared with the corresponding dosage of the IMT agent needed for reaching treatment validity when single therapy or the ADC, with lower dose
Amount application both the IMT agent and the ADC. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 4. antibody-drug conjugates (ADC) according to any one of claim 1 to 3, wherein the ADC than single medicine to control
Dosage needed for reaching treatment validity when treatment is low at least 90%, at least 80%, at least 70%, at least 60%, at least 50%, extremely
Few 40%, at least 30%, at least 20%, at least 10%, at least 5%, at least 1% dosage application. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 5. immune-mediated treatment (IMT) agent according to any one of claim 1 to 4, wherein the IMT agent is than single medicine
Dosage needed for reaching treatment validity when treating is low at least 90%, at least 80%, at least 70%, at least 60%, at least 50%,
At least 40%, at least 30%, at least 20%, at least 10%, at least 5%, at least 1% dosage application. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 6. it includes by the ADC and being somebody's turn to do that wherein this, which is used, according to claim 1 to ADC the and IMT agent used described in any one of 5
IMT agent is combined simultaneously, individually or sequential application is in patient. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 7. according to claim 1 to ADC the and IMT agent used described in any one of 6, wherein being conjugated to the drug of the ADC is
PBD or tubulysin. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 8. wherein the ADC is through in intravenous or tumour according to claim 1 to ADC the and IMT agent used described in any one of 7
Application. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 9. wherein the IMT agent is through in intravenous, peritonaeum according to claim 1 to ADC the and IMT agent used described in any one of 8
Or application in tumour. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 10. wherein the IMT agent is that checkpoint inhibits according to claim 1 to ADC the and IMT agent used described in any one of 9
Agent. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 11. wherein the IMT agent is tumor necrosis factor according to claim 1 to ADC the and IMT agent used described in any one of 10
The agonist of sub (TNF) receptor superfamily. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 12. wherein the IMT agent is selected from by with the following group according to claim 1 to ADC the and IMT agent used described in any one of 11
At group: PD1 inhibitor, PD-L1 inhibitor, OX40 agonist and GITRL agonist. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. ADC the and IMT agent used according to claim 12, wherein the IMT agent is selected from the group being made up of: anti-PD1
Antibody, anti-PD-L1 antibody and anti-OX40 antibody, OX40 ligand fusion protein and GITRL fusion protein. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 14. ADC the and IMT agent according to any one of claims 1 to 13 used, wherein the ADC includes as antitumor
The antibody of antibody or its antigen-binding fragment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. the 4 ADC and IMT agent used according to claim 1, wherein the antibody is selected from the group being made up of: anti-
EphA2 antibody or its antigen-binding fragment, anti-Her2 antibody or its antigen-binding fragment, resisting GPC 3 antibody or its antigen binding fragment
Section, anti-ASCT2 antibody or its antigen-binding fragment and anti-B7H4 antibody or its antigen-binding fragment. 
 
     
 16. a kind of cancer immunotherapy method, this method includes administration of antibodies-drug conjugate (ADC) and immune-mediated controls
(IMT) agent is treated, wherein this method includes by the ADC and IMT agent combined administration in patient, and 
 A. compared with dosage needed for reaching treatment validity when single therapy, which is applied with lower dosage；Or 
 B. compared with dosage needed for reaching treatment validity when single therapy, which is applied with lower dosage；Or 
 C. compared with the corresponding dosage of the IMT agent needed for reaching treatment validity when single therapy or the ADC, with lower dose
Amount application both the IMT agent and the ADC. 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. the method according to claim 11, wherein the ADC is than agent needed for reaching treatment validity when single therapy
Measure low at least 90%, at least 80%, at least 70%, at least 60%, at least 50%, at least 40%, at least 30%, at least 20%,
At least 10%, at least 5%, at least 1% dosage application. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 18. method according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the IMT agent is than reaching treatment validity institute when single therapy
The dosage needed is low at least 90%, at least 80%, at least 70%, at least 60%, at least 50%, at least 40%, at least 30%, at least
20%, at least 10%, at least 5%, at least 1% dosage application. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 19. method described in any one of 6 to 18 according to claim 1, this method include by ADC and IMT agent simultaneously, individually or
Sequential application is in patient. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 20. method described in any one of 6 to 19 according to claim 1, wherein the drug for being conjugated to the ADC is PBD or micro-
Pipe lysin. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 21. method described in any one of 6 to 20 according to claim 1, wherein ADC application in intravenous or tumour. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 22. method described in any one of 6 to 21 according to claim 1, wherein IMT agent warp is intravenous, peritonaeum is interior or tumour
Interior application. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 23. method described in any one of 6 to 22 according to claim 1, wherein the IMT agent is checkpoint inhibitor. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 24. method described in any one of 6 to 23 according to claim 1, wherein the IMT agent be tumor necrosis factor (TNF) by
The agonist of body superfamily. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 25. method described in any one of 6 to 24 according to claim 1, wherein the IMT agent is selected from the group being made up of: PD1
Inhibitor, PD-L1 inhibitor, OX40 agonist and GITRL agonist. 
 
     
 
   
 
 26. according to the method for claim 25, wherein the IMT agent is selected from the group being made up of: anti-PD1 antibody, anti-PD-
L1 antibody and anti-OX40 antibody, OX40 ligand fusion protein and GITRL fusion protein. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 27. method described in any one of 6 to 26 according to claim 1, wherein the ADC includes as anti-tumour antibody or it is anti-
The antibody of former binding fragment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 28. according to the method for claim 27, wherein the antibody is selected from the group that is made up of: anti-eph A2 antibody or its
Antigen-binding fragment, anti-Her2 antibody or its antigen-binding fragment, resisting GPC 3 antibody or its antigen-binding fragment, anti-ASCT2 are anti-
Body or its antigen-binding fragment and anti-B7H4 antibody or its antigen-binding fragment. 
 
     
 29. a kind of pharmaceutical composition, it includes the ADC according to defined in claim 7 or 10 to any one of 15 and/or IMT
Agent. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
