
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of corynebacteria microorganism belonging to genus for the modification for producing putrescine or ornithine, wherein compared with its endogeneous activity, sugar
The reduced activity of the transcription regulatory factor (SugR) of metabolism, and compared with its endogeneous activity, citrate synthase (GltA)
Increased activity. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the transcription regulatory factor of the glycometabolism is by SEQ ID NO:1 or
SEQ ID NO:3 amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the citrate synthase is by SEQ ID NO:5 or SEQ ID NO:7
Amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the corynebacterium microorganism is selected from what is be made up of the following
Group：Corynebacterium glutamicum, corynebacterium ammoniagenes, thermophilic corynebacterium ammoniagenes, brevibacterium flavum and brevibacterium lactofermentus. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein being further introduced into ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. microorganism according to claim 5, wherein the ornithine decarboxylase is by SEQ ID NO:17 amino acid sequence
Row composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein compared with its endogeneous activity, i) ornithine transcarbamylase
(ArgF), ii) glutamic acid output albumen or iii) ornithine transcarbamylase and glutamic acid output albumen activity enter one
Step weakens. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. microorganism according to claim 7, wherein the ornithine transcarbamylase is by SEQ ID NO:9 or
SEQ ID NO:11 amino acid sequence composition, and the glutamic acid exports albumen by SEQ ID NO:13 or SEQ ID NO:
15 amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein compared with its endogeneous activity, at least one work for being selected from the group
Property is further enhanced, and the group is made up of the following：Acetyl group-gamma-glutamyl-phosphoric acid reduction enzyme (ArgC), acetylglutamate
Synthase or ornithine acetyltransferase (ArgJ), acetylglutamate kinase (ArgB) and Ncg12355
(ArgD)。 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. microorganism according to claim 9, wherein the acetyl group-gamma-glutamyl phosphoric acid reduction enzyme is by SEQ ID
NO:19 or SEQ ID NO:21 amino acid sequence composition, the acetylglutamate synthase or ornithine acetyltransferase are by SEQ
ID NO:23 or SEQ ID NO:25 amino acid sequence composition, the acetylglutamate kinase is by SEQ ID NO:27 or SEQ
ID NO:29 amino acid sequence composition, and the Ncg12355 is by SEQ ID NO:31 or SEQ ID
NO:33 amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. microorganism according to claim 1, wherein compared with its endogeneous activity, the activity of transacetylase enters one
Step weakens. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. microorganism according to claim 11, wherein the transacetylase is by SEQ ID NO:35 or SEQ ID
NO:37 amino acid sequence composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. microorganism as claimed in claim 1, wherein compared with its endogeneous activity, by SEQ ID NO:39 or SEQ ID
NO:The activity of the protein of 41 compositions further enhances. 
 
     
 14. a kind of method for producing putrescine or ornithine, including： 
 (i) the corynebacteria microorganism belonging to genus according to any one of claim 1 to 13 is cultivated in the medium；With 
 (ii) putrescine or ornithine are reclaimed from the microorganism of culture or culture medium. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. according to the method for claim 14, wherein the corynebacterium microorganism is corynebacterium glutamicum. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
