
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a compositions, it contains the metabolite produced by the Lactobacillus paracasei CBAL74 of international accession registration number LMG P-24778, and wherein said metabolite can alleviate the gliadin peptide signs of toxicity of the experimenter with seitan associated conditions. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the compositions of claim 1, wherein said metabolite is heat-staple. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the compositions of claim 1, wherein said metabolite is substantially free of the Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 cell of international accession registration number LMGP-24778. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the compositions of claim 1, the cell that wherein said metabolite can reduce gliadin peptide enters. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the compositions of claim 1, wherein said gliadin peptide is α-gliadin peptide. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the compositions of claim 5, the aminoacid sequence of wherein said α-gliadin peptide is selected from the group be made up of LGQQQPFPPQQPY (SEQ ID NO:1), QLQPFPQPQLPY (SEQ ID NO:2), LGQQQPFPPQQPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO:3) and LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO:4). 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the compositions of claim 1, wherein said seitan associated conditions is that celiac disease or seitan are responsive. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. the compositions of claim 1, it also comprises physiologically acceptable carrier. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the compositions of claim 8, wherein said physiologically acceptable carrier is food article or pharmaceutical carrier. 
 
     
 10. treatment has the experimenter's of a seitan associated conditions method, and it comprises: 
 A) experimenter needing treatment is differentiated; 
 B) use the compositions containing the metabolite produced by the Lactobacillus paracasei CBAL74 of international accession registration number LMG P-24778 of effective dose, wherein said metabolite can alleviate gliadin peptide signs of toxicity. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 11. claim 10, wherein said metabolite is heat-staple. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. the method for claim 10, wherein said metabolite is substantially free of the Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 cell of international accession registration number LMGP-24778. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. the method for claim 10, the cell that wherein said metabolite can reduce gliadin peptide enters. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 14. claim 10, wherein said gliadin peptide is α-gliadin peptide. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 15. claim 14, the aminoacid sequence of wherein said α-gliadin peptide is selected from the group be made up of LGQQQPFPPQQPY (SEQ ID NO:1), QLQPFPQPQLPY (SEQ ID NO:2), LGQQQPFPPQQPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO:3) and LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO:4). 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 16. claim 10, wherein said seitan associated conditions is that celiac disease or seitan are responsive. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 17. claim 10, wherein said gliadin peptide signs of toxicity comprises inflammation, autoimmune response, gastrointestinal symptom, loses weight, anemia, osteoporosis, arthritis, sterile, peripheral neuropathy or liver failure. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 18. claim 10, wherein said subject age is no more than 21 years old. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. the method for claim 10, it also comprises step seitan associated conditions being used to the second treatment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 20. claim 19, wherein said second treatment is Diet Therapy or Drug therapy. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The method of 21. claim 20, wherein said Diet Therapy is not containing the diet of seitan. 
 
     
 22. metabolites produced by the Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 of international accession registration number LMG P-24778 are for the preparation of the purposes of compositions of gliadin peptide signs of toxicity that can alleviate the experimenter with seitan associated conditions. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 23. claim 22, wherein said metabolite is heat-staple. 
 
     
 
   
 
 24. the purposes of claim 22, wherein said metabolite is substantially free of the Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 cell of international accession registration number LMGP-24778. 
 
     
 
   
 
 25. the purposes of claim 22, the cell that wherein said metabolite can reduce gliadin peptide enters. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 26. claim 22, wherein said gliadin peptide is α-gliadin peptide. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 27. claim 26, the aminoacid sequence of wherein said α-gliadin peptide is selected from the group be made up of LGQQQPFPPQQPY (SEQ ID NO:1), QLQPFPQPQLPY (SEQ ID NO:2), LGQQQPFPPQQPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO:3) and LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO:4). 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 28. claim 22, wherein said compositions comprises food article. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 29. claim 22, wherein said compositions comprises pharmaceutical carrier. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 30. claim 22, wherein said gliadin peptide signs of toxicity comprises inflammation, autoimmune response, gastrointestinal symptom, loses weight, anemia, osteoporosis, arthritis, sterile, peripheral neuropathy or liver failure. 
 
     
 31. 1 kinds of test kits, it contains the compositions comprising the metabolite produced by the Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 of international accession registration number LMG P-24778 of actual measured amount, wherein said metabolite can alleviate gliadin peptide signs of toxicity, and is selected from one or more article of the group be made up of packaging material, the package insert comprising operation instruction, sterile fluid, syringe and sterile chamber. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The test kit of 32. claim 31, wherein said compositions also comprises food article. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The test kit of 33. claim 31, wherein said compositions also comprises pharmaceutical carrier. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
