
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. the method producing Jatropha curcas (Jatropha curcas) oil, described method includes with from the second
Do not show the pollen of the different Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype B) the first is had only to open
The flower of female flower (FO) character (phenotype A) is pollinated, and produces Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid plant, and from described F1
The seed of hybridization Jatropha curcas plant extracts oil. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the curcas oil produced by method described in claim 1. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the method for claim 1, it is characterised in that described method also include processing described oil with
As diesel engine and the substitute of jet fuel. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the diesel engine produced by the method described in claim 3 and the substitute of jet fuel. 
 
     
 5. the method producing Jatropha curcas (Jatropha curcas) F1 hybrid seed, described method includes using
The pollen of the different Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype B) is not showed to first from the second
Kind have and only to open the flower of female flower (FO) character (phenotype A) and pollinate, produce Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid plant, and
From described F1 hybridization Jatropha curcas plant results seed. 
 
     
 6. the method producing Jatropha curcas (Jatropha curcas) oil, described method includes from Jatropha curcas F1
Hybrid plant obtains seed and extracts oil from described seed, and wherein said Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid plant passes through
With not showing the pollen of the different Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype B) from the second to
One has only to be opened the flower of female flower (FO) character (phenotype A) and pollinates, and produces Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid plant. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the curcas oil that method as claimed in claim 6 produces is used as diesel engine or jet fuel substitutes
The purposes of thing. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. the Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid seed that method as claimed in claim 6 produces is used as diesel engine or jet plane
The purposes in the source of replacement of fuel thing. 
 
     
 9. the method producing Jatropha curcas (Jatropha curcas) oil, described method includes with from the second
Do not show the pollen of the different Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype B) the first is had only to open
The flower of the Jatropha curcas plant of female flower (FO) character (phenotype A) is pollinated, and produces Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid plant,
And extract oil from the seed of described F1 hybridization Jatropha curcas plant, the first Jatropha curcas plant described is with preservation
Numbering PTA-11583 is preserved in American type culture collection. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. the curcas oil produced by method described in claim 9. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. methods as claimed in claim 9, it is characterised in that described method also include processing described oil with
				
As diesel engine and the substitute of jet fuel. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. diesel engine produced by the method described in claim 11 and the substitutes of jet fuel. 
 
     
 13. 1 kinds of methods producing Jatropha curcas (Jatropha curcas) F1 hybrid seed, described method includes using
The pollen of the different Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype B) is not showed to first from the second
Kind has the flower of the Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype A) and pollinates, and produces Jatropha curcas F1
Hybrid plant, and from described F1 hybridization Jatropha curcas plant results seed, the first Jatropha curcas plant described with
Deposit number PTA-11583 is preserved in American type culture collection. 
 
     
 14. 1 kinds of methods producing Jatropha curcas (Jatropha curcas) oil, described method includes from Jatropha curcas F1
Hybrid plant obtains seed and extracts oil from described seed, and wherein said Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid plant passes through
With not showing the pollen of the different Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype B) from the second to
One has the flower of the Jatropha curcas plant only opening female flower (FO) character (phenotype A) and pollinates, and produces Jatropha curcas
F1 hybrid plant, the first Jatropha curcas plant described is preserved in U.S. typical case with deposit number PTA-11583
Culture collection center. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The curcas oil that 15. methods as claimed in claim 14 produce is used as diesel engine or jet fuel is replaced
Purposes for thing. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The Jatropha curcas F1 hybrid seed that 16. methods as claimed in claim 14 produce is used as diesel engine or jet
The purposes in the source of machine replacement of fuel thing. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
