
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. treat the method for infected by microbes in the baby of lactogenic mother for one kind, it is characterized in that, the method comprises the compositions comprising food product of effective dose is applied to lactogenic mother, wherein said food product is via probiotic bacteria, Lactobacillus paracasei LactobacillusparacaseiCBAL74, international accession accession number LMGP-24778 fermentation. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, described compositions gives antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, described compositions gave in puerperal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, described compositions gives with puerperal antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, described probiotic bacteria is not replicability. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, also comprises the baby identifying needs treatment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the method for claim 1, it is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium Salmonellatyphimurium, the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii Cronobactersakazakii of slope, escherichia coli Escherichiacoli, listeria monocytogenes Listeriamonocytogenes, streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcuspneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis Neisseriameningitidis, or rotavirus. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium FB62. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, described microorganism is the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii of slope. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, described food product is milk product or bread basket. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that, applying said compositions is until infection symptoms improves. 
 
     
 12. 1 kinds are prevented bacteriological infection in the baby of lactogenic mother or alleviate the method that it infects seriousness, the method comprises the compositions comprising food product of effective dose is applied to lactogenic mother, wherein said food product is via probiotic bacteria, Lactobacillus paracasei LactobacillusparacaseiCBAL74, international accession accession number LMGP-24778 fermentation. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. methods as claimed in claim 12, it is characterized in that, described compositions gives antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. methods as claimed in claim 12, it is characterized in that, described compositions gave in puerperal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. methods as claimed in claim 12, is characterized in that, described compositions gives with puerperal antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. methods as claimed in claim 12, it is characterized in that, described probiotic bacteria is not replicability. 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. methods as claimed in claim 12, is characterized in that, also comprise the baby identifying needs treatment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. methods as claimed in claim 12, it is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium Salmonellatyphimurium, the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii Cronobactersakazakii of slope, escherichia coli Escherichiacoli, listeria monocytogenes Listeriamonocytogenes, streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcuspneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis Neisseriameningitidis, or rotavirus. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. methods as claimed in claim 18, it is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium FB62. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. methods as claimed in claim 18, is characterized in that, described microorganism is the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii of slope. 
 
     
 
   
 
 21. methods as claimed in claim 12, it is characterized in that, described food product is milk product or bread basket. 
 
     
 22. probiotic bacteria Lactobacillus paracasei LactobacillusparacaseiCBAL74, international accession accession number LMGP-24778 is for the preparation of the purposes of food product, described food product is used for the treatment of bacteriological infection in the baby of lactogenic mother, and wherein the compositions comprising food product of effective dose is applied to lactogenic mother. 
 
     
 
   
 
 23. methods as claimed in claim 22, it is characterized in that, described compositions gives antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 24. methods as claimed in claim 22, it is characterized in that, described compositions gave in puerperal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 25. methods as claimed in claim 22, is characterized in that, described compositions gives with puerperal antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 26. methods as claimed in claim 22, it is characterized in that, described probiotic bacteria is not replicability. 
 
     
 
   
 
 27. methods as claimed in claim 22, is characterized in that, also comprise the baby identifying needs treatment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 28. methods as claimed in claim 22, it is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium SalmonellaTyphimurium, the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii Cronobactersakazakii of slope, escherichia coli Escherichiacoli, listeria monocytogenes Listeriamonocytogenes, streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcuspneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis Neisseriameningitidis, or rotavirus. 
 
     
 
   
 
 29. methods as claimed in claim 22, it is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium FB62. 
 
     
 
   
 
 30. methods as claimed in claim 22, is characterized in that, described microorganism is the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii of slope. 
 
     
 
   
 
 31. methods as claimed in claim 22, it is characterized in that, described food product is milk product or bread basket. 
 
     
 
   
 
 32. methods as claimed in claim 22, is characterized in that, applying said compositions is until infection symptoms improves. 
 
     
 33. probiotic bacteria Lactobacillus paracasei LactobacillusparacaseiCBAL74, international accession accession number LMGP-24778 is for the preparation of the purposes of food product, described food product infects seriousness for prevent in the baby of lactogenic mother bacteriological infection or alleviate it, and wherein the compositions comprising food product of effective dose is applied to lactogenic mother. 
 
     
 
   
 
 34. methods as claimed in claim 33, it is characterized in that, described compositions gives antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 35. methods as claimed in claim 33, it is characterized in that, described compositions gave in puerperal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 36. methods as claimed in claim 33, is characterized in that, described compositions gives with puerperal antenatal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 37. methods as claimed in claim 33, it is characterized in that, described probiotic bacteria is not replicability. 
 
     
 
   
 
 38. methods as claimed in claim 33, is characterized in that, also comprise the baby identifying needs treatment. 
 
     
 
   
 
 39. methods as claimed in claim 33, it is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium SalmonellaTyphimurium, the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii Cronobactersakazakii of slope, escherichia coli Escherichiacoli, listeria monocytogenes Listeriamonocytogenes, streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcuspneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis Neisseriameningitidis, or rotavirus. 
 
     
 
   
 
 40. methods as claimed in claim 33, it is characterized in that, described microorganism is Salmonella typhimurium FB62. 
 
     
 
   
 
 41. methods as claimed in claim 33, is characterized in that, described microorganism is the rugged Cronobacter sakazakii of slope. 
 
     
 
   
 
 42. methods as claimed in claim 33, it is characterized in that, described food product is milk product or bread basket. 
 
     
 
   
 
 43. methods as claimed in claim 33, is characterized in that, applying said compositions is until infection symptoms improves. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
