
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. purposes of the isolated polypeptide as the homoserine O- succinyltransferase for producing o-succinyl homoserine,
Described in polypeptide there is the amino acid sequence that is indicated by SEQ ID NO:29. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the isolated polynucleotides for encoding polypeptide described in claim 1 are used to produce the purposes of o-succinyl homoserine,
Wherein the polynucleotides have the nucleotide sequence indicated by SEQ ID NO:36. 
 
     
 3. the use that certain microorganism of Escherichia for producing o-succinyl homoserine is used to produce o-succinyl homoserine
On the way, wherein the microbial expression it is resistant to the feedback inhibition of methionine and have homoserine O- succinyl transfer
The polypeptide of enzymatic activity, wherein the polypeptide has the amino acid sequence indicated by SEQ ID NO:29. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. purposes as claimed in claim 3, wherein certain microorganism of the Escherichia is Escherichia coli. 
 
     
 5. producing certain microorganism of the Escherichia of o-succinyl homoserine, expresses and have to the feedback inhibition of methionine
Polypeptide resistant and with homoserine O- succinyltransferase activity, wherein the polypeptide has by SEQ ID NO:29
The amino acid sequence of expression, and the metB gene of encoding cystathionine γ synzyme is further lacked or is weakened. 
 
     
 6. producing certain microorganism of the Escherichia of o-succinyl homoserine, expresses and have to the feedback inhibition of methionine
Polypeptide resistant and with homoserine O- succinyltransferase activity, wherein the polypeptide has by SEQ ID NO:29
The amino acid sequence of expression, and the thrB gene of encoded homoserine kinase or encoded homoserine O- succinyltransferase
MetA gene is further lacked or is weakened. 
 
     
 7. producing certain microorganism of the Escherichia of o-succinyl homoserine, expresses and have to the feedback inhibition of methionine
Polypeptide resistant and with homoserine O- succinyltransferase activity, wherein the polypeptide has by SEQ ID NO:29
The amino acid sequence of expression, and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, aspartate transaminase and aspartate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase
It is further augmented. 
 
     
 8. the method for producing o-succinyl homoserine, comprising: 
 (a) culture produces certain microorganism of the Escherichia of o-succinyl homoserine, the microorganism table in the medium
Polypeptide resistant up to the feedback inhibition to methionine and with homoserine O- succinyltransferase activity, wherein institute
Stating polypeptide has the amino acid sequence indicated by SEQ ID NO:29, and；With 
 (b) o-succinyl homoserine is obtained from the microorganism or the culture medium. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. method according to any one of claims 8, wherein certain microorganism of the Escherichia is Escherichia coli. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method according to any one of claims 8, wherein the metB gene of encoding cystathionine γ synzyme is further lacked or is subtracted
It is weak. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. method according to any one of claims 8, wherein the thrB gene of encoded homoserine kinase or encoded homoserine O- amber
The metA gene of acyltransferase is further lacked or is weakened. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. method according to any one of claims 8, wherein phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, aspartate transaminase and aspartic acid-
Semialdehyde dehydrogenase is further augmented. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
