
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. anti-VLA-1 antibody, or the purposes of its Fab in the pharmaceutical composition of preparation to the study subject treatment infarction relevant to the ischemia injury in CNS or the ischemical reperfusion injury in CNS or edema, wherein said pharmaceutical composition is the pharmaceutical composition for intravenous injection or perfusion (IV), subcutaneous injection (SC), intraperitoneal (IP) or intramuscular injection. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the purposes of claim 1, the ischemia injury in wherein said CNS or the ischemical reperfusion injury in CNS are apoplexy. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the purposes of claim 1, the ischemia injury in wherein said CNS or the ischemical reperfusion injury in CNS are traumatic brain injury (TBI). 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the purposes of claim 1, the ischemia injury in wherein said CNS or the ischemical reperfusion injury in CNS are spinal cord injury (SCI). 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the purposes of claim 2, wherein said apoplexy is cerebral infarction. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 6. the purposes of one of claim 1-4, wherein said anti-VLA-1 antibody, or its Fab is people, chimeric or humanized anti-VLA-1 antibody, or its Fab. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 7. the purposes of one of claim 1-4, wherein said anti-VLA-1 antibody, or its Fab is humanization AQC2 antibody, or its Fab. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 8. the purposes of one of claim 1-4, wherein said anti-VLA-1 antibody, or its Fab is produced by the hybridoma of ATCC preserving number PTA-3274, PTA-3275 or PTA-3356. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 9. the purposes of one of claim 1-4, wherein said study subject is mammal. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. the purposes of claim 9, wherein said study subject is people. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 11. claim 2, wherein said study subject there occurs apoplexy. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 12. claim 11, wherein said compositions is the compositions of the administration after apoplexy in 48 hours. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 13. claim 1, wherein said pharmaceutical composition is the compositions of subcutaneous administrations. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 14. claim 1, wherein said pharmaceutical composition is the compositions of intravenous injection or perfusion administration. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 The purposes of one of 15. claim 1-4, wherein said VLA-1 antagonist with every day 0.1mg/kg to every day 5mg/kg dosage give. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 16. claim 11, wherein said VLA-1 antagonist at least gives twice in after a stroke 7 days. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 The purposes of one of 17. claim 1-4, wherein said pharmaceutical composition comprises anti-VLA-1 antibody and another kind of therapeutic agent. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 18. claim 17, wherein said another kind of therapeutic agent is selected from antiplatelet drug, streptokinase, aggregation inhibitor, glycoprotein iib/iiia inhibitor, glycosaminoglycans, thrombin inhibitor, anticoagulant, heparin, coumarin, tPA, GCSF, streptokinase, urokinase, ancrod, aspirin, melatonin and caspase inhibitor. 
 
     
 Purposes in the pharmaceutical composition of the infarction that 19. anti-VLA-1 antibody or its Fab are correlated with in the apoplexy of preparation treatment people or edema, wherein said pharmaceutical composition is the pharmaceutical composition for intravenous injection or perfusion (IV), subcutaneous injection (SC), intraperitoneal (IP) or intramuscular injection. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 20. claim 19, wherein said apoplexy is cerebral infarction. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 21. claim 19, wherein said apoplexy is hemorrhagic apoplexy. 
 
     
 The anti-VLA-1 antibody of 22. humanization barrier is preparing the purposes in the pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of infarction or the edema of the people that apoplexy occurs, there is latter 72 hours internal therapies in apoplexy in wherein said people, wherein said pharmaceutical composition is the pharmaceutical composition for intravenous injection or perfusion (IV), subcutaneous injection (SC), intraperitoneal (IP) or intramuscular injection. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 23. claim 22, wherein said apoplexy is cerebral infarction. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 24. claim 22, wherein said apoplexy is hemorrhagic apoplexy. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 25. claim 3, wherein said TBI is contusion, scratch, lacerated wound or hematoma. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 26. claim 25, wherein said anti-VLA-1 antibody or its Fab are people, chimeric, or humanized anti-VLA-1 antibody or its Fab. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 27. claim 4, wherein said SCI is selected from forme fruste SCI, Central cord injury syndrome, the half side damage syndrome of spinal cord, front cord syndrome, conus syndrome and cauda equina syndrome. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The purposes of 28. claim 27, wherein said anti-VLA-1 antibody or its Fab are people, chimeric, or humanized anti-VLA-1 antibody or its Fab. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
