
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies, it is characterized in that, the anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonals resist
Body specific recognition and combination SEQ ID NO:Albumen shown in 4, and the anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonals resist
Body not with SEQ ID NO:Protein binding shown in 5. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies as claimed in claim 1, it is characterised in that described anti-
FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies and preserving number are reference antibody caused by CGMCC No.6905 hybridoma cell strains
Compare, there are the one or more characteristics being selected from the group： 
 (1) three CDR regions of the weight chain variable district of the anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies and the reference
Three CDR regions of the weight chain variable district of antibody are identical； 
 (2) three CDR regions of the light chain variable district of the anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies and the reference
Three CDR regions of the light chain variable district of antibody are identical； 
 (3) weight chain variable district of the anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies and the heavy chain of the reference antibody can
It is identical to become area；With 
 (4) light chain variable district of the anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies and the light chain of the reference antibody can
It is identical to become area. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies as claimed in claim 1, it is characterised in that described anti-
FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies are that monoclonal caused by preserving number is CGMCC No.6905 hybridoma cell strains resists
Body. 
 
     
 4. a kind of hybridoma cell strain, deposit number：CGMCC No.6905；The hybridoma cell strain energy
Anti- FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies are enough produced, the anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies are to SEQ ID NO:4
The monoclonal antibody that shown albumen can be specifically bound. 
 
     
 5. a kind of recombinant protein, it is characterised in that described recombinant protein has： 
 (i) monoclonal antibody as claimed in claim 1；And 
 (ii) sequence label of optional assistance expression and/or purifying. 
 
     
 6. a kind of immune conjugate, it is characterised in that the immune conjugate contains： 
 (a) monoclonal antibody as claimed in claim 1；With 
 (b) coupling moiety being selected from the group：Detectable, medicine, toxin, cell factor, radioactive nucleus
Element or enzyme. 
 
     
 7. a kind of pharmaceutical composition, it is characterised in that it contains： 
 (i) monoclonal antibody as claimed in claim 1 or recombinant protein as claimed in claim 5,
Or immune conjugate as claimed in claim 6；And 
 (ii) pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 8. monoclonal antibody as claimed in claim 1, recombinant protein as claimed in claim 5 or such as
The purposes of immune conjugate described in claim 6, it is characterised in that for preparing medicament, reagent, detection
Plate or kit； 
 The reagent, detection plate or kit are used for： 
 (1) SEQ ID NO in sample are detected:Albumen shown in 4；And/or 
 (2) SEQ ID NO in tumour cell are detected:Albumen shown in 4；And/or 
 (3) detection expression SEQ ID NO:The tumour cell of albumen shown in 4； 
 The medicament is used to treat or prevent expression SEQ ID NO:The tumour of albumen shown in 4. 
 
     
 9. a kind of preparation method for the hybridoma cell strain for producing anti-FGFR2-IIIc monoclonal antibodies, including with
Lower step： 
 (1) with SEQ ID NO:Fusion protein shown in 3 is as antigen, immunising mammals； 
 (2) expression SEQ ID NO are prepared:The CHO-FGFR2-IIIc- Δ c cell lines of fusion protein shown in 6； 
 (3) CHO-FGFR2-IIIc- Δ c cell lines are subjected to booster immunization to the mammal； 
 (4) splenocyte of the mammal after booster immunization is merged with myeloma cell, cultivated；Screening,
Obtain secreting to SEQ ID NO:Albumen shown in 4 has the hybridoma cell strain of the monoclonal antibody of specific reaction. 
 In another preference, the CHO-FGFR2-IIIc- Δs c cell lines are prepared as：Pass through Hind
III/Xba I restriction enzyme sites are by SEQ ID NO:Sequence shown in 2 is cloned into pcDNA3.0 carriers, is built into
PcDNA3.0-Flag-FGFR2-IIIc- Δ c expression vectors；Again by pcDNA3.0-Flag-FGFR2-IIIc- Δs c
Expression vector is transfected into Chinese hamster ovary celI, culture；Screening obtains expressing SEQ ID NO:Fusion protein shown in 6
CHO-FGFR2-IIIc- Δ c cell lines. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method as claimed in claim 9, it is characterised in that the fusion ratio is splenocyte：Marrow
Oncocyte SP2/0 is 4.5-5.5:1. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
