
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. the polynucleotides separated, coding the nucleotide sequence of the mutant polypeptide having Δ 9 elongase activity forms, Qi Zhongsuo
State polypeptide by selected from SEQ ID NO:59, SEQ ID NO:29, SEQ ID NO:62, SEQ ID NO:87, SEQ ID NO:
101, the amino acid sequence composition of SEQ ID NO:104, SEQ ID NO:107 and SEQ ID NO:110. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The polynucleotides of separation the most according to claim 1, wherein said nucleotide sequence is selected from: SEQ ID NO:58,
SEQ ID NO: 28、SEQ ID NO: 61、SEQ ID NO: 86、SEQ ID NO: 100、SEQ ID NO: 103、SEQ
ID NO:106 and SEQ ID NO:109. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The polynucleotides of separation the most according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is by the amino shown in SEQ ID NO:59
Acid sequence forms. 
 
     
 4. having the mutant polypeptide of Δ 9 elongase activity, wherein said polypeptide is by selected from SEQ ID NO:59, SEQ ID NO:
29, SEQ ID NO:62, SEQ ID NO:87, SEQ ID NO:101, SEQ ID NO:104, SEQ ID NO:107 and
The amino acid sequence composition of SEQ ID NO:110. 
 
     
 
   
 
 Mutant polypeptide the most according to claim 4, wherein said polypeptide is by the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:59
Composition. 
 
     
 6. recombinant precursor, comprises the polynucleotides of separation any one of claim 1-3, and wherein said nucleotide sequence can
It is operatively connected at least a kind of regulating and controlling sequence. 
 
     
 7. the yeast converted, comprises the recombinant precursor of claim 6. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The yeast of conversion the most according to claim 7, wherein said yeast is produce its dry cell wt at least 25%
The saccharomyces olei of oil. 
 
     
 
   
 
 The yeast of conversion the most according to claim 8, wherein said saccharomyces olei is selected from: Ye Shi saccharomyces
(Yarrowia), candida (Candida), Rhodotorula (Rhodotorula), Rhodosporidium
(Rhodosporidium), Cryptococcus (Cryptococcus), Trichosporon (Trichosporon) and saccharomyces oleaginosus
Belong to (Lipomyces). 
 
     
 
   
 
 The yeast of conversion the most according to claim 9, wherein said saccharomyces olei is Yarrowia lipolytica (Yarrowia
Lipolytica). 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 The yeast of 11. conversions according to any one of-10 according to Claim 8, wherein said saccharomyces olei also comprises at least one
Planting recombinant dna construct, described recombinant dna construct comprises the multinuclear of the separation that may be operably coupled to a kind of regulating and controlling sequence
Thuja acid, described recombinant dna construct coding is selected from following polypeptide: Δ 4 desaturase, Δ 5 desaturase, Δ 8 desaturase,
Δ 6 desaturase, Δ 9 desaturase, Δ 12 desaturase, Δ 15 desaturase, Δ 17 desaturase, C 14/16 Extension enzyme,
C 16/18 Extend enzyme, C 18/20 Extend enzyme and C 20/22 Extend enzyme. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 The yeast of 12. conversions according to any one of-10 according to Claim 8, wherein said saccharomyces olei comprises selected from following
Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid: eicosadienoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, eicosatetraenoic acid, eicosatrienoic acid, 20
Two carbon tetraenoic acids, clupanodonic acid and DHA. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
 The yeast of 13. conversions according to any one of-10 according to Claim 8, wherein said saccharomyces olei comprises selected from following
Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid: arachidonic acid and dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid. 
 
     
 14. methods producing polyunsaturated fatty acid, described method includes: 
 A) yeast of conversion according to any one of-13 according to Claim 8 is provided, described yeast comprise selected from linoleic acid and α-
Linolenic aliphatic acid； 
 B) yeast making step (a) make wherein coding have Δ 9 elongase activity mutant polypeptide recombinant precursor express
And make described substrate fatty acid grow under conditions of changing into product fatty acid, wherein linoleic acid becomes eicosadienoic acid also
And alpha-linolenic acid changes into eicosatrienoic acid；And 
 C) optionally the product fatty of recycling step (b) is sour. 
 
     
 15. recombinant yeast cells, described recombinant yeast cell produces the oil comprising eicosapentaenoic acid, wherein said 20 carbon five
Olefin(e) acid is at least 22.5 weight % of the dry cell wt of described yeast cells, and wherein said yeast cells comprises at least one
Planting sudden change Δ 9 and extend enzyme polypeptide, described sudden change Δ 9 extends enzyme polypeptide and is made up of the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:59. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
