
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. preserving number be MTCC5184 muscardine (
           beauveria ) fungal bacterial strain, wherein said bacterial strain is deposited in the International Depository Authority MTCC that budapest treaty is admitted.
         
 
     
 2. the muscardine being MTCC5184 by preserving number prepares the method for enzyme, and described enzyme is at least one enzyme being selected from proteolytic enzyme, carbohydrase and lipase, and described method comprises: 
 A) in the substratum comprising 0.15-80% carbon source, 0.15-80% nitrogenous source and inductor, pH is within the scope of 5.0-9.0, and under the aerobic conditions of temperature between 15-32 DEG C, muscardine MTCC5184 is cultivated 2-7 days, and wherein optionally described Carbon and nitrogen sources is inductor; 
 B) culture that step (a) obtains is gathered in the crops; And 
 C) be separated by ordinary method or extract the enzyme in liquid phase, 
 Wherein said carbohydrase is selected from amylase, zytase and chitinase, and wherein proteolytic enzyme is selected from M-Zyme and serine protease. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. method as claimed in claim 2, wherein, the cultivation of described muscardine completes under submerged conditions or solid state fermentation. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. method as claimed in claim 2, wherein, described carbon source is selected from the group of following composition: sugar; Sugar alcohol; Oil & fat; And agricultural waste; Fishery refuse, sour swollen chitin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. method as claimed in claim 4, wherein, described sugar is selected from glucose, fructose, sucrose, lactose and pectinose. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. method as claimed in claim 4, wherein, described sugar alcohol is selected from the group of glycerine, mannitol and Sorbitol Powder composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. method as claimed in claim 2, wherein, described carbon source is selected from polysaccharide. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. method as claimed in claim 7, wherein, described polysaccharide is selected from the group of starch, xylan and hemicellulose composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. method as claimed in claim 4, wherein, described oil & fat is selected from the group of sweet oil, Trisun Oil R 80, soybean oil, sesame oil, tori seed oil, Viscotrol C, Oleum Cocois, peanut oil, tributyrin composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. method as claimed in claim 4, wherein, described agricultural waste are selected from peanut meal, wheat bran, rice bran, potato residues, Semen Maydis powder, dregs of beans, leaf mustard seedcake, cottonseed cake, corn cob and the corn dregs of rice. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. methods as claimed in claim 4, wherein, described agricultural waste are refuses of food-processing. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. methods as claimed in claim 11, wherein said food is selected from milk-product and meat. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. methods as claimed in claim 12, wherein said meat is poultry. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. methods as claimed in claim 2, wherein, described carbon source is selected from and is rich in keratic refuse and contains chitinous refuse. 
 
     
 
   
 
 15. methods as claimed in claim 14, wherein, described in be rich in keratic refuse be hair, feather. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. methods as claimed in claim 2, wherein, described nitrogenous source is selected from the group of following composition: peptone, casein, meat extract, yeast extract, corn steep liquor, dregs of beans, leaf mustard seedcake, cottonseed meal, beans sugar, olecranon bean powder, Powder Phaseoli radiati, ammonium sulfate, ammonium nitrate, Secondary ammonium phosphate, urea, SODIUMNITRATE, feather, fish meal and hair. 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. methods as claimed in claim 16, wherein, described peptone is selected from Tryptones, casamino acids and soybean protein peptone. 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. methods as claimed in claim 2, wherein, by enzyme described in lyophilize, spraying dry, salting-out process or ultrafiltration and concentration. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. methods as claimed in claim 2, wherein, described enzyme is by partial purification and concentrate with inorganic salt, and described inorganic salt are selected from the group of ammonium sulfate, sodium-chlor and magnesium chloride composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. methods as claimed in claim 2, isolated cell in the animal skin depilation of the enzyme comprising preparation further in leather is produced, animal tissues's culture, synthesize silver nano-grain and the application stain remover preparation from filmstrip recover silver, the enzyme wherein prepared is proteolytic enzyme. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
