
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. manufacture the method for carotenoid containing zeaxanthin, it is characterized in that: comprise the step of being cultivated in containing the substratum of vitamin H by the bacterium belonging to paracoccus (Paracoccus) of the carotenoid produced containing zeaxanthin; The concentration of the vitamin H of unit substratum is 0.005mg/L-50mg/L; Cultivate in the nutrient solution after terminating, glyconic acid production concentration is below 80g/L; Further, cultivate in the nutrient solution after terminating, the zeaxanthin of the dry thalline of unit is more than 2mg/g. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: cultivate in the nutrient solution after terminating, glyconic acid turnout consumes 30% (w/w) of carbon source below. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: the carotenoid of production contains β-cryptoxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: the carotenoid of production contains β-carotene. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: cultivate in the nutrient solution after terminating, Poly-β-hydroxybutyric Acid (PHB) content of unit dried cellular be 30% (w/w) below. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: bacterium the paracoccus bacterium producing astaxanthin is carried out variation process, make it produce the dissociant of zeaxanthin. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: bacterium is compared with parental strain, is the dissociant that glyconic acid throughput is reduced. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: bacterium is compared with parental strain, is the dissociant that PHB throughput is reduced. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. the method for claim 1, is characterized in that: bacterium is the dissociant from E-396 strain (FERMBP-4283) or A-581-1 strain (FERMBP-4671). 
 
     
 10. carotenoid compositions, its contain according to the method for claim 1 manufacture containing the carotenoid of zeaxanthin, it is characterized in that: cultivate in the nutrient solution after terminating, the PHB content of unit dried cellular be 30% (w/w) below. 
 
     
 11. containing the dry thalline composition of carotenoid containing zeaxanthin, and it is manufactured by the nutrient solution drying method according to claim 1 obtained, and it is characterized in that: described in unit, the zeaxanthin of composition is more than 2mg/g. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
