
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. composition, it includes the pentose cream bars for being preserved in Spain's Type Tissue Collection with registration number CECT 7504
Bacterium (Lactobacillus pentosus) bacterial strain. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. being used to prevent and/or treat candidiasis (candidiasis) such as the composition limited in claim 1. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. composition according to claim 2 is used to prevent and/or treat vaginal candidiasis (vaginal
candidiasis)。 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. composition according to claim 3 is used to prevent and/or treat by Candida glabrata (Candida glabrata)
Caused vaginal candidiasis. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. composition according to claim 3 is used to prevent and/or treat the vaginal candidiasis with high inflammatory response. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. composition according to claim 2 is combined with triazole antifungal drug object or nystatin (nistatin) for pre-
Anti- and/or treatment candidiasis. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. composition according to claim 2 is used to prevent and/or treat thrush or intestinal moniliasis. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. being used to prevent and/or treat bacterial vaginosis BV such as the composition limited in claim 1. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. being used as drug such as the composition limited in claim 1. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. composition according to claim 1 is drug products. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. composition according to claim 1 is food or edible product. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. composition according to claim 1 is food supplement. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. composition according to claim 1 is personal hygiene products. 
 
     
 14. Lactobacillus pentosus strain is preserved in Spain's Type Tissue Collection with registration number CECT 7504. 
 
     
 15. being preserved in the Lactobacillus pentosus strain of Spain's Type Tissue Collection with registration number CECT 7504 or as weighed
Benefit requires the composition limited in 1 preparing the purposes in the drug for preventing and/or treating candidiasis. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. purposes according to claim 15, wherein the candidiasis is vaginal candidiasis. 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. purposes according to claim 16, wherein the vaginal candidiasis is the vagina beads as caused by Candida glabrata
Bacterium disease. 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. purposes according to claim 16, wherein the vaginal candidiasis is the vaginal candida with high inflammatory response
Disease. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. purposes according to claim 16, wherein the group of the composition and triazole antifungal drug object or nystatin shares
In prevention and/or treatment candidiasis. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. purposes according to claim 15, wherein the candidiasis is thrush or intestinal moniliasis. 
 
     
 21. being preserved in the Lactobacillus pentosus strain of Spain's Type Tissue Collection with registration number CECT 7504 or as weighed
Benefit requires the composition limited in 1 preparing the purposes in the drug for preventing and/or treating bacterial vaginosis BV. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
