
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of bacillus amyloliquefaciens (Bacillus amyloliquefaciens) GF423 bacterial strain, generating has super oxygen
Compound mutase (SOD) active polypeptide, and in korean typical culture preservation center (KCTC) with deposit number KCTC
13222BP has carried out international accession. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. the bacillus amyloliquefaciens GF423 bacterial strain of claim 1, wherein the bacterial strain includes 16S ribosomal RNA gene, the base
Because of the nucleotide sequence comprising any one in SEQ ID NO:3 to SEQ ID NO:11. 
 
     
 3. a kind of method for generating the polypeptide with superoxide dismutase (SOD), this method includes solving starch gemma from culture
Separation has the step of superoxide dismutase (SOD) active polypeptide, the bacterium in the culture that bacillus GF423 bacterial strain obtains
Strain, which generates, has superoxide dismutase (SOD) active polypeptide, and in korean typical culture preservation center
(KCTC) international accession has been carried out with deposit number KCTC 13222BP. 
 
     
 4. a kind of anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anticancer pharmaceutical composition, it includes what is generated by bacillus amyloliquefaciens GF423 bacterial strain
SOD, the bacterial strain have carried out international guarantor in korean typical culture preservation center (KCTC) with deposit number KCTC 13222BP
Hiding, the SOD include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
     
 5. a kind of with anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anticancer activity food, which includes by bacillus amyloliquefaciens GF423 bacterial strain
The SOD of generation, the SOD include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
     
 6. a kind of with anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activity cosmetic composition, which includes by solution starch gemma bar
The SOD that bacterium GF423 bacterial strain generates, the SOD include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
     
 7. a kind of with anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anticancer activity feed addictive, which includes by solution starch gemma
The SOD that bacillus GF423 bacterial strain generates, the SOD include the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
     
 8. a kind of for preventing or treating the pharmaceutical composition of hyperlipidemia, the composition includes by bacillus amyloliquefaciens
The superoxide dismutase that GF423 bacterial strain generates, the bacterial strain is in korean typical culture preservation center (KCTC) with preservation
Number KCTC 13222BP has carried out international accession, which includes the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
     
 9. a kind of for preventing or improving the food of hyperlipidemia, which includes to be produced by bacillus amyloliquefaciens GF423 bacterial strain
Raw superoxide dismutase, the bacterial strain is in korean typical culture preservation center (KCTC) with deposit number KCTC
13222BP has carried out international accession, which includes the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
