
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of preparation method for high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent of degrading, which is characterized in that method acquisition is prepared by the following procedure: 
 (1) by the Rhodobacter capsulatus saved at 4 DEG C ( Rhodobacter capsulatus ) 3Z CGMCC No.17568, class ball
The red bacillus of shape ( Rhodobacter sphaeroides ), Rhodopseudomonas palustris ( Rhodopseudomonas palustris )
With Rhodobacter johrii , it is inoculated in respectively in the liquid RCVBN culture medium of sterilizing under aseptic conditions, is placed in 25 DEG C
Intensity of illumination is stationary culture 72h in the incubator of 3000-5000Lx, and it is red to obtain the red bacillus fermentation liquid of near-spherical, pod membrane respectively
Bacillus 3Z fermentation liquid, Rhodopseudomonas palustris fermentation liquid, the bacillus subtilis saved at 4 DEG C ( Bacillus subtilis )
It is inoculated in the LB culture medium of sterilizing under aseptic conditions, is placed in stationary culture 72h in 25 DEG C of incubator, obtain withered grass gemma
Bacillus fermentation liquid； 
 (2) by weight percentage, by the Rhodobacter capsulatus 3Z fermentation liquid of step (1) preparation, the red bacillus fermentation liquid of near-spherical, natural pond
Damp red pseudomonas fermentation liquid, Rhodobacter johrii Fermentation liquid and bacillus subtilis fermentation liquor, mixing, are mixed
1-2% sodium alginate, 3-5% glucose, 1-2% are added into fermented by mixed bacterium liquid by weight percentage for strain fermentating liquid
Glycerol obtains degradation high-ammonia-nitrogen sewage composite bacteria agent. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. a kind of preparation method of high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent of degrading as described in claim 1, which is characterized in that described mixed
Strain fermentating liquid is closed, by weight percentage, bacillus subtilis fermentation liquor 5%, the red bacillus fermentation liquid 10% of near-spherical, pod membrane is red
Bacterium 3Z fermentation liquid 65%, Rhodopseudomonas palustris fermentation liquid 15%, Rhodobacter johrii Fermentation liquid 5%, is mixed. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. a kind of preparation method of high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent of degrading as described in claim 1, which is characterized in that described to press
Weight percent meter, 1% sodium alginate, 4% glucose are added into fermented by mixed bacterium liquid, and 1% glycerol obtains high ammonia nitrogen of degrading
Sewage composite bacteria agent. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. a kind of preparation method of high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent of degrading as described in claim 1, which is characterized in that the drop
High ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent is solved, for storage after 60 days, bacillus subtilis living bacteria count is 5.70 ± 1.03 × 10 10  cfu/
Ml, the red bacillus of Rhodobacter capsulatus 3Z, near-spherical, Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Rhodobacter johrii Common living bacteria count
It is 8.3 ± 0.82 × 10 9 cfu/ml。 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. a kind of preparation method of high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent of degrading as described in claim 1, which is characterized in that the pod
The red bacterium of film ( Rhodobacter capsulatus ) 3Z, culture presevation number is CGMCC No.17568. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. a kind of preparation method of high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent of degrading as described in claim 1, which is characterized in that the pod
The red bacterium of film ( Rhodobacter capsulatus ) 3Z, gene order is as shown in SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 7. degradation high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent prepared by the preparation method as described in claim 1 to 6 any one. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. application of the degradation high ammonia-nitrogen wastewater composite bacteria agent in processing sewage as claimed in claim 7. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
