
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of preparation method of the product for waste degradation, includes: 
 Multiple microbial strains on solid medium in independent bacterium colony are isolated from more than one castoff sources； 
 The size and/or abundance of bacterium colony based on each microbial strains select multiple microbial strains isolated, wherein selected
Microbial strains are selected based on having bigger bacterium colony size and/or bigger bacterium colony abundance compared with other microbial strains
It selects；And 
 Selected microbial strains are combined to prepare the microbial flora for waste degradation. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein, the bacterium colony based on size, shape and each microbial strains of color-identifying. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 3. method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the method also includes evaluations to include the combined microorganism
The food degradation of the microbial flora of bacterial strain. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein selected microbial strains be selected from by candida,
The group of Pediococcus and enterobacter cloacae composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. according to the method described in claim 4, wherein, described group by Candida glabrata DSMZ 32770, Pediococcus DSMZ
32729, enterobacter cloacae DSMZ 32739 and Enterobacter DSMZ 32730 is formed. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the method also includes combining selected microorganism
Selected each microbial strains are cultivated before bacterial strain. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. according to the method described in claim 6, wherein, cultivating institute at a temperature of between about 30 degrees Celsius (DEG C) to about 70 DEG C
Select each microbial strains. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 8. method according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the step of combining selected microbial strains include will cultivate it is micro-
Biological bacterial strain is inoculated into culture medium. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the method also includes fixing microbial flora
On carrier. 
 
     
 
   
 
 10. according to the method described in claim 9, wherein, the carrier is sawdust, useless cereal or the inane fruit from oil palm
Room. 
 
     
 11. a kind of product for waste degradation, comprising: 
 Microbial flora, the combination including microbial strains, the microbial strains are in from more than one on solid medium
The independent bacterium colony separated in food waste material resource, and the size of the bacterium colony based on each microbial strains and/or abundance carry out
Selection, wherein selected microbial strains are based on bigger bacterium colony size and/or bigger compared with other microbial strains
Bacterium colony abundance and select. 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. the product according to claim 11 for waste degradation, wherein be based on size, shape and color-identifying
The bacterium colony of each microbial strains. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 13. the product according to claim 11 or 12 for waste degradation, wherein microbial strains are selected from by false silk
The group of saccharomyces, Pediococcus and enterobacter cloacae composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. the product according to claim 13 for waste degradation, wherein described group by Candida glabrata DSMZ
32770, Pediococcus DSMZ 32729, enterobacter cloacae DSMZ 32739 and Enterobacter DSMZ32730 composition. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 15. the product of waste degradation is used for described in any one of 1 to 14 according to claim 1, wherein the product is into one
Step includes carrier, and microbial flora is fixed on carrier. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. the product according to claim 15 for waste degradation, wherein the carrier be sawdust, useless cereal or
From the inane fruit room of oil palm. 
 
     
 17. a kind of isolated microbial strains, selected from the group being made of candida, Pediococcus and enterobacter cloacae. 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. isolated microbial strains according to claim 17, wherein described group by Candida glabrata DSMZ32770,
Pediococcus DSMZ 32729, enterobacter cloacae DSMZ 32739 and Enterobacter DSMZ 32730 are formed. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 19. the substantially pure culture of isolated microbial strains described in claim 17 or 18. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. the substantially pure culture of isolated microbial strains according to claim 19, uses solid medium
It is fixed. 
 
     
 
   
 
 21. the substantially pure culture of isolated microbial strains according to claim 20, wherein solid medium
It is sawdust, useless cereal or the inane fruit room from oil palm. 
 
     
 22. microbial flora or mixed microbial composite, it includes selected from by candida, Pediococcus and cloaca intestines
Two or more microbial strains in the group of bacillus composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 23. microbial flora according to claim 22 or mixed microbial composite, wherein described group by smooth thought
Pearl bacterium DSMZ 32770, Pediococcus DSMZ 32729, enterobacter cloacae DSMZ 32739 and Enterobacter DSMZ32730 group
At. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 24. the microbial flora according to claim 22 or 23 or mixed microbial composite, use solid medium
It is fixed. 
 
     
 
   
 
 25. microbial flora according to claim 24 or mixed microbial composite, wherein solid medium is saw
End, useless cereal or the inane fruit room from oil palm. 
 
     
 26. a kind of method of degradation wastes, comprising: 
 It provides described in any one of claim 11 to 16 for described in the product of waste degradation, claim 17 or 18
The substantially pure culture of isolated microbial strains described in any one of isolated microbial strains, claim 19 to 21
One of microbial flora described in any one of object and claim 22 to 25 or mixed microbial composite； 
 By be used for the product of waste degradation, the microbial strains of separation, separation microbial strains substantially pure culture
One of object or microbial flora or mixed microbial composite are mixed with waste；And 
 Use the substantially pure training of the microbial strains of product, separation for waste degradation, the microbial strains of separation
Support object or one of microbial flora or mixed microbial composite degradation wastes. 
 
     
 
   
 
 27. the method for degradation wastes according to claim 26, wherein waste is at about 30 degrees Celsius (DEG C) to about 50
It is biodegradable at a temperature of between DEG C. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 28. the method for the degradation wastes according to claim 26 or 27, wherein provide the production for being used for waste degradation
Product, product and waste for waste degradation are provided with the mass ratio of about 1:1. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
