
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A protein variant having L-tryptophan export activity, 
 wherein the 79 th amino acid in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine or isoleucine, 
 wherein the 80 th amino acid in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, leucine or isoleucine, 
 wherein the 81 st amino acid in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted by alanine, valine or isoleucine, 
 wherein amino acid 82 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, leucine or isoleucine, or 
 Wherein amino acid 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine or leucine. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. The protein variant of claim 1, wherein said protein variant consists of any one of the amino acid sequences selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 131 to 147.  
 
     
 3. A polynucleotide encoding the protein variant of any one of claims 1 to 2. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. A vector comprising the polynucleotide of claim 3. 
 
     
 5. A microorganism producing L-tryptophan which expresses the protein variant according to any one of claims 1 to 2, wherein the microorganism belongs to the genus corynebacterium (genus Corynebacterium) or escherichia (genus Escherichia). 
 
     
 6. A method for producing L-tryptophan comprising: 
 culturing the microorganism of claim 5 in a medium; and 
 recovering L-tryptophan from the cultured medium or the cultured microorganism. 
 
     
 7. The use of protein variants for increasing L-tryptophan production by a microorganism, 
 wherein the 79 th amino acid in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine or isoleucine, 
 wherein the 80 th amino acid in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, leucine or isoleucine, 
 wherein the 81 st amino acid in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted by alanine, valine or isoleucine, 
 wherein amino acid 82 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine, leucine or isoleucine, or  
 Wherein amino acid 83 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is substituted with alanine, valine or leucine, 
 wherein the microorganism belongs to the genus Corynebacterium or the genus Escherichia. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
