
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of anti-inflammatory composition, comprising: 
 Plant extract compound containing extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 1, wherein 
 The extractive of perilla contains isoegomaketone (IK, isoegomaketone) or its salt as active constituent. 
 
     
 
   
 
 3. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 1, wherein 
 The purple perilla is Antisperill (Antisperill, KCTC 13077BP). 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 3, wherein 
 Every 1g extract of the extractive of perilla contains 10mg to 30mg isoegomaketone (IK, isoegomaketone), IK
Isoegomaketone concentration is 100mg/mL to 300mg/mL. 
 
     
 
   
 
 5. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 1, wherein 
 The extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract are the extract obtained and carrying out alcoholic extraction with alcohol solvent respectively. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 1, wherein 
 The extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract are the extract obtained by means of supercritical extraction respectively. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 1, wherein 
 The plant extract compound further includes the alcoholic extract with use ethanol as the wilsonii of solvent extraction. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 7, wherein 
 The plant extract compound is any in the extractive of perilla, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract and siberian Ginseng P.E of 1 parts by weight
The mixture of extract and other two kinds of extracts of 1 parts by weight to 2 parts by weight. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 7, wherein 
 The plant extract compound is mixed by extractive of perilla, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract and siberian Ginseng P.E with the weight ratio of 1:1:1
It closes. 
 
     
 10. a kind of preparation method of anti-inflammatory composition, the anti-inflammatory composition includes plant extract compound, the preparation method
Include: 
 The step of including the plant extracts of extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract is obtained respectively；And 
 The step of extracting compound is prepared by mixing the plant extracts of each acquisition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 11. the preparation method of anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 10, wherein 
 The purple perilla is Antisperill (Antisperill, KCTC 13077BP). 
 
     
 
   
 
 12. the preparation method of anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 10, wherein 
 The step of obtaining the plant extracts respectively includes executing following steps: 
 The step of each plant is lyophilized； 
 The step of crushing freeze-drying plant；And 
 The step of being extracted after the plant of the freeze-drying is independently suspended with alcohol solvent. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. the preparation method of anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 12, wherein 
 The plant extracts further includes siberian Ginseng P.E. 
 
     
 
   
 
 14. the preparation method of anti-inflammatory composition according to claim 10, wherein 
 The step of obtaining the plant extracts respectively is obtained by executing each plant of means of supercritical extraction. 
 
     
 15. a kind of for treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation, comprising: 
 Plant extract compound including extractive of perilla and Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae extract. 
 
     
 
   
 
 16. according to claim 15 for treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation, wherein 
 The purple perilla is Antisperill (Antisperill, KCTC 13077BP). 
 
     
 
   
 
 17. according to claim 15 for treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation, wherein 
 The plant extract compound further includes siberian Ginseng P.E. 
 
     
 
   
 
 18. according to claim 15 for treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation, wherein 
 The diseases associated with inflammation is selected from by asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), allergic rhinitis, dermatitis, arthritis, allergy
With the group of inflammatory bowel disease composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 19. according to claim 18 for treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation, wherein 
 The arthritis is rheumatoid arthritis. 
 
     
 
   
 
 20. according to claim 15 for treating the pharmaceutical compositions of diseases associated with inflammation, wherein 
 The pharmaceutical compositions also include pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
