
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. a kind of probiotic composition comprising lactic acid Bifidobacterium, bifidobacterium longum and Lactobacillus casei. 
 
     
 
   
 
 2. probiotic composition according to claim 1, wherein the lactic acid Bifidobacterium is lactic acid Bifidobacterium
CECT 8145, and/or bifidobacterium longum is bifidobacterium longum CECT 7347 and/or Lactobacillus casei is Lactobacillus casei CECT
9104。 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 3. probiotic composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the probiotic composition be pharmaceutical composition or
Alimentation composition. 
 
     
 
   
 
 4. probiotic composition according to claim 3, wherein the pharmaceutical composition includes pharmaceutically acceptable load
Body and/or excipient. 
 
     
 
   
   
 
 5. probiotic composition according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is formulated for liquid shape
Formula or solid form are given. 
 
     
 
   
 
 6. probiotic composition according to claim 5, wherein the solid formulation is selected from tablet, pastille, sweet taste
Agent, chewable tablets, chewing gum, capsule, pouch, powder, particle, coated granule or coated tablet, tablet, anti-stomach piece, capsule, dispersion
Item and/or film. 
 
     
 
   
 
 7. probiotic composition according to claim 5, wherein the liquid formulation be selected from oral administration solution, suspension,
Lotion and syrup. 
 
     
 
   
 
 8. probiotic composition according to claim 3, wherein the alimentation composition is food or nutritional supplement. 
 
     
 
   
 
 9. probiotic composition according to claim 8, wherein the food is selected from fruit syrup or vegetable juice, ice swash
Icepro, babies ' formula milk powder, milk, Yoghourt, cheese, fermented milk, milk powder, cereal, baked items, milk-based product, meat products and drink
Material. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 10. probiotic composition described in any one to 9 according to claim 1, wherein the composition further wraps
Containing the strain for being selected from genus lactubacillus, the strain of streptococcus, the strain of Bifidobacterium, the strain of Blastocystis, Crewe dimension ferment
The microbial organisms of strain and their combination that mother belongs to. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 11. probiotic composition described in any one to 10 according to claim 1, wherein in the composition, bacterium
The total concentration of the microbial organisms of strain lactic acid Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus casei and bifidobacterium longum is 10 3 To 10 12 Cfu, preferably
It is 10 9 cfu。 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 12. probiotic composition described in any one to 11 according to claim 1, wherein the bifidobacterium longum is dense
Spending relative to the total concentration of the microbial organisms in the composition is at least 30% to 40%；And/or the lactic acid
The concentration of Bifidobacterium is at least 30% to 40% relative to the total concentration of microbial organisms；And/or the cheese cream bar
The concentration of bacterium is at least 25% to 35% relative to the total concentration of microbial organisms. 
 
     
 
   
 
 13. probiotic composition according to claim 12, wherein the concentration of the bifidobacterium longum is relative to described
Composition in microbial organisms total concentration be 35%；The concentration of the lactic acid Bifidobacterium has relative to microorganism
The total concentration of body is 35%；And/or the concentration of the Lactobacillus casei is relative to the total concentration of microbial organisms
30%. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 14. being used as the probiotic composition of drug described in any one to 13 according to claim 1. 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 15. according to claim 1 for treating and/or preventing the probiotic group of atopic dermatitis described in any one to 13
Close object. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
