
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A recombinant plasmid which is capable of inducing the extracellular secretion of xylanase in  Escherichia coli  transformed with said plasmid and which is obtainable by:
 (a) preparing with a restriction enzyme a chromosomal DNA fragment of Bacillus sp. C 125 (FERM BP-469) which codes for the extracellular secretion of xylanase; 
 (b) preparing the recombinant plasmid DNA by ligating the chromosomal DNA fragment obtained in step (a) into a vector plasmid which was digested with a suitable restriction enzyme; and 
 (c) isolating the recombinant plasmid DNA from a transformed host cell which exhibits a xylanase-producing phenotype.   
 
     
 The recombinant plasmid of claim 1, wherein the restriction enzyme used in steps (a) and (b) is the restriction enzyme Hind III. 
 
     
 The recombinant plasmid of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the vector plasmid is plasmid pBR 322. 
 
     
 The recombinant plasmid according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, which is the plasmid pCX 311 (FERM BP-470). 
 
     
 A host organism of the genus  Escherichia , preferably of the species  Escherichia coli , which is transformed with a recombinant plasmid according to any one of Claims 1 to 4. 
 
     
 A host organism according to Claim 5 which is the strain  Escherichia coli  HB101 and which is capable of extracellular secretion of xylanase. 
 
     
 A method for the construction of a recombinant plasmid according to Claim 1, which comprises the steps of:
 (a) preparing with a restriction enzyme a chromosomal DNA fragment of Bacillus sp. C 125 (FERM BP-469) which codes for the extracellular secretion of xylanase; 
 (b) preparing the recombinant plasmid DNA by ligating the chromosomal DNA fragment obtained in step (a) into a vector which was digested with a suitable restriction enzyme; and 
 (c) isolating the recombinant plasmid DNA from a transformed host cell which exhibits a xylanase-producing phenotype.   
 
     
 The method of Claim 7, wherein the restriction enzyme used in steps (a) and (b) is the restriction enzyme Hind III. 
 
     
 The method of Claims 7 or 8, wherein the vector plasmid is pBR 322. 
 
     
 The method according to any one of Claims 7 to 9, wherein the recombinant plasmid is plasmid pCX 311 (FERM BP-470). 
 
     
 A method for the extracellular production of xylanase in which a transformant according to Claim 5 or 6 is cultivated and which comprises:
 (a) inoculating a medium containing a selected carbon source together with an inorganic salt which is a sodium salt or a potassium salt with the transformant; 
 (b) keeping on culturing the transformant after the concentration of the transformant cells reaches the maximum and until the production and accumulation of xylanase in the medium reaches the maximum.   
 
     
 The method of Claim 11, wherein the inorganic salt is sodium chloride or potassium chloride. 
 
     
 The method of Claim 11 or 12, wherein the inorganic salt is used in an amount of 0.5 to 3.0 % by weight of the medium. 
 
     
 The method of any one of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the carbon source is bran or xylan. 
 
     
 The method of any one of Claims 11 to 14, wherein the transformant is cultured for 12 to 48 hours. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
