
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A plasmid comprising a DNA sequence encoding an inhibitory protein for phospholipase A₂ originated from inflammatory sites and a DNA sequence having a function for an expression regulation thereof. 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 1, wherein said DNA sequence encoding the inhibitory protein originates from rat or human. 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 1, wherein said DNA sequence encoding the inhibitory protein is a DNA sequence encoding a protein constructing the amino acid sequence represented as sequence number 1 in the "Sequence Listing", or an amino acid sequence wherein parts of amino acids residues are mutually replaced in the sequence, or one or more of said amino acid residues are deleted from or newly inserted to the sequence. 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 1, wherein said DNA sequence encoding the inhibitory protein is a DNA sequence encoding a protein constructing the amino acid sequence represented as seqeuence number 3 in the "Sequence Listing", or an amino acid sequence wherein parts of said amino acid residues are mutually replaced in the sequence, or one or more of said amino acid residues are deleted from or newly inserted to the sequence. 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 3, wherein said DNA sequence encoding the inhibitory protein is a DNA sequence represented as sequence number 2 in the "Sequence Listing", 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 4, wherein said DNA sequence encoding the inhibitory protein is a DNA sequence represented as sequence number 4 in the "Sequence Listing". 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 5, wherein said DNA encoding the inhibitory protein comprises 2.1 kbp of a DNA fragment originated from rat liver cDNA λgt ll library, and 
   said DNA fragment is reconstructed using 2.0 kbp of a DNA fragment prepared by digesting the cDNA λgt library with EcoRI and 0.1 kbp of a DNA fragment prepared by digesting another 0.7 kbp of a DNA fragment from the cDNA λgt library with BamHI. 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 1, wherein said DNA sequence is reconstructed by ligation of a double-stranded DNA prepared by regating a 5' terminal 59 bp of a rat C3dg gene to a downstream region in an initiation codon, and to an upstream region in 1.0 kbp of EcoRI-FoKI fragment obtained by a digestion of 2.0 kbp of DNA fragment in accordance with claim 7 with FoKI, 
   following by ligation of a double-stranded DNA prepared by adding a 3' terminal 14 bp of rat C3dg gene to an upstream region in a termination codon, and to a downstream region in the 1.0 kbp EcoRI-FokI fragment. 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 1, wherein said DNA sequence is reconstructed by ligation of a NcoI-EcoRI fragment of double-stranded DNA prepared by ligating with an initiation codon and 5' terminal 70 bp of human C3dg gene, to an upstream region in an about 1.2 kbp EcoRI-KpnI fragment obtained by a digestion of a human cDNA clone pHLC3.11 with EcoRI and KpnI, 
   following by a ligation of a EcoT14I-KpnI fragment of double-stranded DNA prepared by ligating with a 3' terminal 80 bp of a human C3dg gene and termination codon, to a downstream region of an about 0.97 kb NcoI-EcoT14I fragment obtained by a partial digestion of the resulting DNA fragment according to the previous ligation with EcoT14I. 
 
     
 A plasmid in accordance with claim 1, wherein said plasmid is selected from group consisting of ppTC3/2.1, pTRc3/1.035 and pTHC3/1.050. 
 
     
 A recombinant microbial cell transformed with a plasmid in accordance with claim 1. 
 
     
 A recombinant microbial cell in accordance with claim 11, wherein a host cell is a microbial cell belonging to a genus of  Eschericia . 
 
     
 A recombinant microbial cell in accordance with claim 11, wherein the host cell is  Eschericia   coli  JM109. 
 
     
 A recombinant microbial cell in accordance with claim 13, wherein the microbial cell is selected from a group consisting of  Eshericia   coli  pTC3/2.1, J9THC 3/1.035 and J9THC3/1.050. 
 
     
 A method of producing a phospholipase A₂ inhibitory protein from inflammatory sites, characterised in that the recombinant microbial cells in accordance with claim 11 are cultured in a nutrient medium up to an accumulation of the inhibitory protein for phospholipase A₂ originated from inflammatory sites, and the inhibitory protein for phospholipase A₂ originated from inflammatory sites is recovered from the cultures. 
 
     
 A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein said recombinant microbial cell is as described in claim 14. 
 
     
 An inhibitory protein for phospholipase A₂ originated from inflammatory sites produced based on the method as described in claim 15. 
 
     
 An inhibitory protein for phospholipase A₂ originated from inflammatory sites in accordance with claim 17, produced based on the method as described in claim 16. 
 
     
 A pharmaceutical composition for suppression of allergic reaction comprising an inhibitory protein for phospholipase A₂ originated from inflammatory sites as an active ingredient. 
 
     
 A pharmaceutical composition for suppression of allergic reactions in accordance with claim 19, wherein said phospholipase A₂ inhibitory protein is as described in claim 17. 
 
     
 A pharmaceutical composition in accordance with claim 19, wherein said allergic reaction is a delayed type allergic reaction. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
