
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A recombinant human immunoglobulin comprising a human heavy chain framework and murine complimentarity determining regions, with said heavy chain framework mutated at sites near the complimentarity determining regions, a human light chain framework and murine complementarity determining regions with said human immunoglobulin or immunologic fragment thereof being capable of binding to a human CD18 integrin. 
 
     
 The recombinant human immunoglobulin of claim 1 wherein the immunoglobulin has a mean IC₅₀ nearly equal to that of the murine monoclonal antibody from which the complementarity determining regions were derived. 
 
     
 A recombinant human immunoglobulin of claim 1 wherein the immunoglobulin is designated mutated Gal/Rei. 
 
     
 The recombinant human immunoglobulin of claim 1 wherein the immunoglobulin or fragment is capable of binding to cells expressing leukocyte integrins selected from the group consisting of LFA-1, Mac-1 or p150,95. 
 
     
 The recombinant human immunoglobulin or fragment thereof of claim 1 wherein the antibody or fragment is capable of binding to cells expressing the CD18 integrin subunit. 
 
     
 The recombinant human immunoglobulin or fragment thereof of claim 1 wherein the antibody or fragment is capable of binding to leukocytes and preventing the leukocytes from entering an inflammatory lesion. 
 
     
 A DNA sequence coding for the recombinant human immunoglobulin of claim 1. 
 
     
 A vector containing the DNA sequence of claim 7. 
 
     
 A mammalian host transfected by the vector of claim 8 containing the DNA sequence coding for recombinant human immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 A process for the preparation of recombinant human immunoglobulin mutated Gal/Rei comprising culturing the transformed mammalian host of claim 15 under conditions suitable for the expression of recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody and recovering said antibody. 
 
     
 An inflammatory reducing or inhibiting pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective inflammatory inhibiting amount of the recombinant human immunoglobulin of claim 1 and a pharmaceutical carrier. 
 
     
 A recombinant mutated human heavy chain framework into which has been grafted murine complimentarity determining regions with said complimentarity determining regions being specific for human CD18 integrin. 
 
     
 The DNA sequence of claim 7 encoding mutated Gal/Rei. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
