
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A method for producing a humanized recombinant immunoglobulin comprising:
 a. preparing polymerase chain reaction primers to amplify the variable portion of the light and heavy chain of a murine antibody which binds to a predefined antigen; 
 b. using the primers to amplify the variable portions of both heavy and light chains and sequencing the resulting nucleotide chains; 
 c. determining the murine complimentary determining regions of the heavy and light chains; 
 d. selecting human variable heavy and light chain frameworks which show a high degree of amino acid similarity with the variable heavy and light chain framework of the murine immunoglobulin; 
 e. selecting human constant heavy and light chain frameworks; 
 f. grafting the murine complimentary determining regions of section c to the human framework regions of section e; 
 g. incorporating the complete DNA sequence for the humanized recombinant immunoglobulin into an appropriate expression vector; 
 h. transfecting host cells with the expression vector of section g; 
 i. growing the transfected cells of section g in an environment in which the humanized recombinant immunoglobulin will be produced by the transfected cell; 
 j. collecting the immunoglobulin.   
 
     
 The method of claim 1, section d wherein the selection process will include one or more of the following steps:
 a. comparing the framework sequences of the murine monoclonal antibody from which the CDRs have been remeoved with all human heavy chain variable and light chain variable framework sequences; 
 b. closely comparing the non-surface exposed residues; 
 c. comparing the tertiary and quanternary structural model of human framework sequences with CDRs in place for comparison with models of the original animal monclonal antibody; 
 d. screening of human genomic DNA with DNA probes corresponding to framework sequences in chosen animal monoclonal antibody.   
 
     
 A polymerase chain reaction method for the simultaneous synthesis and assembly of at least four deoxyoligonucleotides. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
