
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody or active fragment thereof. 
 
     
 The recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody or fragment thereof of claim 1 wherein the antibody or fragment is capable of binding to cells expressing leukocyte integrins selected from the group consisting of LFA-1, Mac-1 or p150,95. 
 
     
 The recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody or fragment thereof of claim 1 wherein the antibody or fragment is capable of binding to cells expressing the CD18 integrin subunit. 
 
     
 The recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody or fragment thereof of claim 1 wherein the antibody or fragment is capable of binding to leukocytes and preventing the leukocytes from entering an inflammatory lesion. 
 
     
 A recombinant human immunoglobulin comprising a human heavy chain framework and murine complimentarity determining regions, a human light chain framework and murine complimentarity determining regions wherein said human immunoglobulin is capable of binding to a human CD18 integrin. 
 
     
 A murine 1B4 light chain variable region amino acid sequence as shown in Figure 3. 
 
     
 A DNA sequence coding for the murine 1B4 light chain variable region amino acid sequence of claim 6. 
 
     
 A murine 1B4 heavy chain variable region amino acid sequence as shown in Figure 3. 
 
     
 A DNA sequence coding for the murine 1B4 light chain variable region amino acid sequence of claim 8. 
 
     
 A DNA sequence coding for the recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody of claim 1. 
 
     
 A DNA sequence coding for the recombinant human immunoglobulin of claim 5. 
 
     
 A vector containing the DNA sequence of claim 10. 
 
     
 A vector containing the DNA sequence of claim 11. 
 
     
 A mammalian host transfected by the vector of claim 12 containing the DNA sequence coding for recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody. 
 
     
 A mammalian host transfected by the vector of claim 13 containing the DNA sequence coding for recombinant human immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 A process for the preparation of recombinant human anti-CD18 comprising culturing the transformed mammalian host of claim 14 under conditions suitable for the expression of recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody and recovering said antibody. 
 
     
 A process for the preparation of recombinant human anti-CD18 comprising culturing the transformed mammalian host of claim 15 under conditions suitable for the expression of recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody and recovering said antibody. 
 
     
 An inflammatory reducing or inhibiting pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective inflammatory inhibiting amount of the recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody of claim 1 and a pharmaceutical carrier. 
 
     
 The use of the recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody of claim 17 for the manufacture of a medicament suitable for preventing or reducing inflammation. 
 
     
 The recombinant human anti-CD18 antibody of claim 1 wherein the antibody specifically reacts with leukocyte integrins LAF-1, Mac-1 and p150,95. 
 
     
 A recombinant human heavy chain framework into which has been grafted murine complimentarity determining regions with said complimentarity determining regions being specific for human CD18 integrin. 
 
     
 A recombinant human light chain framework into which has been grafted murine complimentarity determining regions with said complimentarity determining regions being specific for human CD18 integrin. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
