
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence represented by any one of SEQ ID Nos. 7 or 8 in which optionally a mutation of the amino acid sequence occurs at one or more positions in said amino acid sequence and which is capable of inducing apoptosis of a Fas antigen-expressing cell and/or is capable of binding to a Fas antigen, with the proviso that the polypeptide is not an anti-Fas antibody. 
 
     
 A polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 103, in which optionally a mutation of the amino acid sequence occurs at one or more positions in said amino acid sequence and which is capable of inhibiting apoptosis of a Fas antigen-expressing cell and/or is capable of binding to a Fas antigen, with the proviso that the polypeptide is not an anti-Fas antibody. 
 
     
 A polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence represented by any one of the SEQ ID Nos. 7, 8 and 103. 
 
     
 A polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleotide sequence being capable of hybridising with a nucleotide sequence encoding an amino acid sequence selected from the group of the amino acid sequences represented by SEQ ID Nos. 7, 8 and 103 or hybridising with a complementary strand of the nucleotide sequence encoding at least one amino acid sequence selected from the group of the amino acid sequences represented by SEQ ID Nos. 7, 8 and 103, wherein the polypeptide is capable of binding to Fas antigen and/or has the activity of inducing apoptosis of a Fas antigen-expressing cell. 
 
     
 A polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleotide sequence being capable of hybridising with a nucleotide sequence selected from the group of the nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ ID Nos. 19, 20 and 104 or hybridising with a complementary strand of at least one nucleotide sequence selected from the group of the nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ. ID. Nos. 19, 20 and 104. 
 
     
 A polypeptide comprising a part of an amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID No. 8 or SEQ ID No. 103, wherein the polypeptide is capable of binding to a Fas antigen, has the activity of inhibiting apoptosis of a Fas antigen-expressing cell and/or induces an antibody to a Fas ligand and wherein said part consists of at least 10 consecutive amino acids. 
 
     
 A polypeptide comprising at least two polypeptides fused with each other and comprising a part of an amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID Nos. 8 or 103, wherein said part is capable of binding to Fas antigen and/or has the activity of inducing, inhibiting or regulating apoptosis of a Fas antigen-expressing cell. 
 
     
 The polypeptide according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the polypeptide is obtained by genetic engineering techniques. 
 
     
 A DNA comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide according to any one of claims 1 to 8. 
 
     
 A DNA comprising the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID No. 17, SEQ ID No. 18, SEQ ID No. 19 or SEQ ID No. 20, or the nucleotide sequence from nucleotide 15th to nucleotide 404th of SEQ ID No. 104. 
 
     
 A DNA comprising a part of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID No. 21 or SEQ ID No. 104, wherein said part comprises at least 15 consecutive nucleotides, and which is capable of hybridising in 5 x SSCP containing 50% formamide, 1 x Denhardt solution, 0.1 % SDS, 100 µg/ml of denatured salmon sperm DNA and 10% (w/v) dextran sulfate at 28 ° C with a nucleotide sequence complementary to the sequences selected from the nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ ID No. 21 or 104. 
 
     
 A DNA selected from
 a) a DNA being capable of hybridising in 5 x SSCP containing 50% formamide, 1 x Denhardt solution, 0.1 % SDS, 100 µg/ml of denatured salmon sperm DNA and 10% (w/v) dextran at 28 ° C sulfate with a nucleotide sequence selected from the group of the nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ ID Nos. 17 to 20 or 104 or with a complementary strand of at least one nucleotide sequence selected from the group of the nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ ID Nos. 17 to 20 or 104 and 
 b) a DNA which is degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the DNA sequence defined in a), said DNA encoding a Fas ligand.   
 
     
 A recombinant DNA molecule comprising the DNA of any one of claims 10 to 12. 
 
     
 A cell which is transformed with the DNA of any one of claims 10 to 13. 
 
     
 The cell according to claim 14, wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of a) E.  coli,  b) yeast and c) mammalian cells. 
 
     
 A process for producing the polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 8 which comprises culturing the transformant of the claims 14 or 15, and recovering and purifying said polypeptide from the culture mixture. 
 
     
 A process for purifying the polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 8 from a sample containing said polypeptide, wherein said process involves at least one purification selected from (1) an affinity chromatography in which Fas antigen is used, and (2) an affinity chromatography in which an antibody which recognises the polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 8 is used. 
 
     
 An antibody or a fragment thereof which binds specifically the polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 8. 
 
     
 The antibody or fragment thereof according to claim 18 wherein said antibody or fragment thereof is a monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
 The antibody or fragment thereof according to claim 18 wherein said antibody or fragment thereof is a polyclonal antibody. 
 
     
 The antibody or fragment thereof according to any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein said antibody or fragment thereof is capable of inhibiting apoptosis. 
 
     
 An oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof which comprises a nucleotide sequence complementary to a part of the gene of a Fas ligand or a part of mRNA for a Fas ligand, wherein said oligonucleotide or derivative thereof comprises at least 15 bases and is capable of regulating expression of a Fas ligand, or which is capable of hybridising in 5 x SSCP containing 50% formamide, 1 x Denhardt solution, 0.1% SDST, 100µg/ml of denatured salmon sperm DNA and 10% (w/v) dextran sulfate at 28°C with a nucleotide sequence selected from the group of the nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ ID No. 17 to 20, 25, 99 to 102 and 104. 
 
     
 The oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof according to claim 22 which comprises a nucleotide sequence complementary to a part of the nucleotide sequence selected from the group of nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ. ID. Nos. 17 to 20, 25, 104 and 99 to 102 and which is capable of hybridising to the nucleotide sequence selected from the group of nucleotide sequences represented by SEQ ID Nos. 17 to 20, 25. 99 to 102 and 104. 
 
     
 The oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof according to claim 22 or 23 wherein said oligonucleotide or its derivative is capable of regulating expression of a Fas ligand. 
 
     
 The oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof according to any one of claims 22 to 24 where said oligonucleotide or its derivative is capable of inhibiting expression of the Fas ligand. 
 
     
 A method for screening a substance related to a Fas ligand or a Fas antigen which comprises using at least a polypeptide according to any one of claims 1 to 8, a DNA according to any one of claims 9 to 12 or a transformant expressing same. 
 
     
 The method for screening a substance related to a Fas ligand or a Fas antigen according to claim 26 which further comprises using Fas antigen, or a Fas antigen-expressing cell. 
 
     
 The screening method according to claim 26 or 27 wherein a substance to be screened is selected from the group consisting of substances which bind to said Fas ligand, which exert influence upon expression of said Fas ligand, which exert influence upon expression of said Fas antigen and which exert influence upon action of said Fas ligand on its target cells. 
 
     
 The screening method according to any one of claims 26 to 28 wherein said method includes a step selected from the following steps (1) to (3),
 (1)
 a) at least one product selected from the group consisting of polypeptides according to claims 1 to 8, transformants expressing same and culture supernatants of the transformants, is cultured together with cells which express Fas antigen, 
 b) a substance to be tested or a sample containing the substance to be tested is added to the above system (a), and 
 c) at least 1 parameter selected from viability, morphological changes and biochemical changes in the Fas antigen-expressing cells is measured,   
 (2)
 a) a substance to be tested or a sample containing the substance to be tested is incubated together with at least one product selected from the group consisting of polypeptides according to claims 1 to 8, transformants expressing same and culture supernatants of the transformants, 
 b) cells which express Fas antigen are added to the above system (a), and cultured, and 
 c) at least 1 parameter selected from viability, morphological changes and biochemical changes in the Fas antigen-expressing cells is measured, and   
 (3)
 a) a substance to be tested or a sample containing the substance to be tested is incubated together with cells which express Fas antigen, 
 b) at least one product selected from the group consisting of polypeptides according to claims 1 to 8 transformants expressing same and culture supernatants of the transformants, is added to the above system (a) and cultured, and 
 c) at least 1 parameter selected from viability, morphological changes and biochemical changes in the Fas antigen-expressing cells is measured.     
 
     
 A polypeptide consisting of an amino acid sequence represented by any one of SEQ ID Nos. 1, 2, 51 to 54, 59 and 74 to 79. 
 
     
 A DNA consisting of a nucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide according to claim 30. 
 
     
 A DNA consisting of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID No. 13 or SEQ ID No. 14. 
 
     
 An antibody or a fragment thereof which recognises a peptide consisting of an amino acid sequence represented by any one of SEQ ID Nos. 51 to 54 and 59. 
 
     
 The oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof according to any one of claims 22 to 25 wherein said oligonucleotide or its derivative is capable of regulating apoptosis of a Fas antigen-expressing cell. 
 
     
 Th oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof according to any one of claims 22 to 25 or 34 wherein said oligonucleotide or its derivative is capable of inhibiting apoptosis of a Fas antigen-expressing cell. 
 
     
 The oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof according to any one of claims 22 to 25, 34 or 35, which comprises a nucleotide sequence complementary to any one of the translation initiation codon area, ribosome binding site, capping site, splice site or stem loop-forming region of a Fas ligand gene or mRNA for a Fas ligand or which binds to the translation initiation codon area, ribosome binding site, capping site, splice site or stem loop-forming region of a Fas ligand gene or mRNA for a Fas ligand. 
 
     
 The oligonucleotide or a derivative thereof according to any one of claims 22 to 25, 34 to 36, which comprises 15 to 30 bases. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
