
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A compound of formula (I)
      and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates (e.g. hydrates) thereof, wherein R¹ represents hydrogen, halogen, C₁₋₆alkyl, hydroxy, C₁₋₆alkoxy, C₁₋₄alkoxyC₁₋₄alkoxy, arylC₁₋₄alkoxy or a group OCOR⁴ (where R⁴ is arylC₁₋₄alkoxy or a C₁₋₁₀alkyl group optionally containing one or two double bonds) and R² represents hydrogen or R¹ and R² may together with the carbon atom to which they are attached represent C=O; 
   R³ represents CH₂R⁵ (where R⁵ is hydrogen, hydroxyl, C₁₋₄alkoxy or a group OCOR⁶ in which R⁶ is C₁₋₄alkyl); and 
   X represents an oxygen or sulphur atom or a CH₂ group. 
 
     
 A compound as claimed in Claim 1 wherien R² is hydrogen and R¹ is sited in the α configuration 
 
     
 A compound as claimed in Claims 1 or 2 wherein R¹ represents C₁₋₄alkoxy, benzyloxy or OCOR⁴ (where R⁴ is a C₁₋₄alkyl group). 
 
     
 A compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 3 wherin R³ represents methyl. 
 
     
 A compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein X represents oxygen. 
 
     
 A compound of formula (Ia)
      and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates (e.g. hydrates) thereof, wherein X is oxygen and R¹ is a group selected from C₁₋₄alkoxy, benzyloxy or OCOR⁴ (where R⁴ is a C₁₋₄alkyl group). 
 
     
 The compounds; 
[1R-(1α, 3aβ, 4β, 4aβ, 7β, 7aα, 8aβ)] 8a-[(2,3-anhydro-6-deoxy-4-O-propyl-β-D-mannopyranosyloxy)methyl]-4-formyl-4,4a,5,6,7,7a,8,8a-octahydro-7-methyl-3-(1-methylethyl)-1,4-methano- s -indacene-3a(1H)-carboxylic acid; 
[1R-(1α, 3aβ, 4β, 4aβ, 7β, 7aα, 8aβ)] 8a-[(2,3-anhydro-6-deoxy-4-O-methyl-β-D-mannopyranosyloxymethyl]-4-formyl-4,4a,5,6,7,7a,8,8a-octahydro-7-methyl-3-(1-methylethyl)-1,4-methano- s -indacene-3a(1H)-carboxylic acid; 
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates (e.g. hydrates) thereof. 
 
     
 A compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 7 for use in therapy. 
 
     
 The use of a compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 7 in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of fungal infections. 
 
     
 A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 7 in admixture with one or more physiologically acceptable carriers or excipients. 
 
     
 A method of treatment of the human or non-human animal body to combat fungal diseases which method comprises administering to said body an effective amount of a compound a claimed in any of Claims 1 to 7. 
 
     
 A process for the preparation of compounds of formula (I) which comprises
 (a) cyclising a compound of formula (II)
      (in which R 1a , R 2a  and R 3a  are as defined for R¹, R² and R³ in formula (I) above or are protected derivatives thereof, R p  is hydrogen or a carboxyl protecting group, L is a suitable leaving group such as an alkyl- or arylsulphonyloxy group and R⁷ is hydrogen or OR⁷ is the same group as defined for L), 
 (b) The preparation of a compound of formula (I) by reacting a compound of formula (IV)
      or a protected derivative thereof with a reagent capable of donating an oxygen atom or a CH₂ group, followed by the removal of any protecting groups present. 
 (c) The preparation of a compound of formula (I) in which X is sulphur by treating a compound of formula (III)
      (in which R¹, R² and R³ are as defined in formula (I) above) with a sulphur donor; 
followed where necessary or desired by one or more of the following steps: 
 (i) conversion of one compound of formula (I) or a protected derivative thereof into another compound of formula (I) 
 (ii) removal of one or more protecting groups.   
 
     
 A compound of formula (V)
      or a protected derivative thereof 
 
     
 A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (V) which process comprises:
 (a) cultivating a microorganism capable of producing the compound of formula (V) and thereafter isolating the compound of formula (V) from the culture, 
 (b) the biotransformation of sordarin.   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
