
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A cDNA(SEQ ID NO:2) encoding small rubber particle-associated
protein(SRPP) which binds to small rubber
particle whose size is less than 10µm in diameter, and is
derived from latex of  Hevea brasiliensis.   
 
     
 A recombinant small rubber particle-associated
protein(SRPP) which has an amino acid sequence(SEQ ID NO:3)
deduced from the cDNA of claim 1. 
 
     
 A recombinant expression vector pGEX-SRPP
comprising a cDNA(SEQ ID NO:2) which expresses glutathione-S-transferase(GST)-SRPP
fusion protein. 
 
     
 A recombinant expression vector pRSET-SRPP
comprising a cDNA(SEQ ID NO:2) which expresses small rubber
particle-associated protein(SRPP). 
 
     
   E .  coli  XL-1 Blue/pGEX-SRPP(KCTC 0595BP)
transformed with the recombinant expression vector pGEX-SRPP
of claim 3. 
 
     
   E .  coli  XL-1 Blue/pRSET-SRPP(KCTC 0596BP)
transformed with the recombinant expression vector pRSET-SRPP
of claim 4. 
 
     
 A method for synthesis of rubber using the 
recombinant SRPP of claim 2, which comprises the steps of:
adding latex of  Hevea brasiliensis  or washed rubber
particle and the recombinant SRPP to a reaction mixture for
rubber synthesis; incubating at 20 to 37°C. for 2 to 12
hours; and, collecting synthesized rubber from the reaction
mixture. 
 
     
 The method for synthesis of rubber of claim 7,
wherein the recombinant SRPP is expressed in a host cell
transformed with an expression vector comprising the cDNA
of claim 1. 
 
     
 The method for synthesis of rubber of claim 8,
wherein the host is a plant, a bacterium, a yeast or a
fungus. 
 
     
 The method for synthesis of rubber of claim 8,
wherein the recombinant SRPP is expressed in a fusion
protein or a non-fusion protein. 
 
     
 The method for synthesis of claim 7, wherein the
rubber particle is less than 10 µm in diameter and derived
from  Hevea brasiliensis.   
 
     
 The method for synthesis of claim 7, wherein the
reaction mixture is 100mM Tris-HCl(pH 7.5) buffer solution
containing 80µM isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP), 20µM farnesyl
pyrophosphate (FPP), 1mM MgSO 4 , and 1mM dithiothreitol (DTT). 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
