
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 An isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of:
 (a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme having an amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 17; 
 (b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme having at least 95 % identity to a polypeptide comprised of an amino acid sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 17; and 
 (c) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that is complementary to (a) or (b).   
 
     
 An isolated nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1 as represented by SEQ ID NO:16. 
 
     
 A polypeptide encoded by the isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1. 
 
     
 A chimeric genetic construct comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 or 2 operably linked to suitable regulatory sequences. 
 
     
 A transformed host cell comprising the chimeric genetic construct of claim 4. 
 
     
 The transformed host cell of claim 5 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, algae, and green plants. 
 
     
 The transformed host cell of claim 6 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Hansenula, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter Chlorobium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, and Myxococcus.   
 
     
 The transformed host cell of claim 6 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of soybean, rapeseed, sunflower, cotton, corn, tobacco, alfalfa, wheat, barley, oats, sorghum, rice,  Arabidopsis,  cruciferous vegetables, melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, and forage grasses. 
 
     
 A method of obtaining a nucleic acid molecule encoding the carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme as defined in claim 1 or 2 comprising:
 (a) amplifying an insert present in a cloning vector using an oligonucleotide primer comprising a portion of the sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 16 and a second primer selected from a random primer, a primer with a sequence complementary to polyA and a primer complementary to a sequence of the cloning vector; or 
 (b) amplifying a nucleic acid molecule using an oligonucleotide primer comprising a portion of the sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 16 and an oligonucleotide comprising a sequence that is complementary to another portion of the sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 16, 
wherein the amplified insert or nucleic acid molecule encodes a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme. 
 
     
 A method for the production of a hydroxylated carotenoid compound comprising:
 (a) providing a host cell that produces a cyclic carotenoid having at least one β-ionone type ring; 
 (b) transforming the host cell of (a) with the nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 or 2 wherein said nucleic acid molecule encodes a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme; and 
 (c) growing the transformed host cell of (b) under suitable conditions whereby a hydroxylated carotenoid is produced.   
 
     
 A method according to claim 10 wherein the hydroxylated carotenoid is selected from a group consisting of astaxanthin, zeaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, adonirubin, adonixanthin, tetrahydroxy-β,β'-caroten-4,4'-dione, tetrahydroxy-β,β'-caroten-4-one, caloxanthin, erythroxanthin, nostoxanthin, flexixanthin, 3-hydroxy-γ-carotene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-γ-carotene, bacteriorubixanthin, bacteriorubixanthinal, and lutein. 
 
     
 A method according to claim 10 wherein the cyclic carotenoid is selected from the group consisting of β-carotene, canthaxanthin, β-cryptoxanthin, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3'-hydroxyechinenone, echinenone, adonirubin, γ-carotene, 4-keto-γ-carotene, deoxy-flexixanthin, and α-carotene. 
 
     
 A method according to claim 10 wherein the transformed host is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, algae, and green plants. 
 
     
 A method according to claim 13 wherein the transformed host cell is selected form the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Hansenula, or Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter Chlorobium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella,  and  Myxococcus.   
 
     
 A method according to claim 13 wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of soybean, rapeseed, sunflower, cotton, corn, tobacco, alfalfa, wheat, barley, oats, sorghum, rice,  Arabidopsis,  cruciferous vegetables, melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, and forage grasses. 
 
     
 A method according to Claim 13 wherein the transformed host cell is a methylotroph. 
 
     
 A method according to Claim 16 wherein the methylotroph is a methanotroph. 
 
     
 A method according to claim 17 wherein the methanotroph is  Methylomonas  16a (ATCC PTA 2402). 
 
     
 The method of any one of claims 10 to 14 or 16 to 18, wherein said host is a recombinant microbial host, said method further comprising isolating hydroxylated carotenoid and optionally incorporating said hydroxylated carotenoid into animal feed. 
 
     
 A method of regulating cyclic hydroxylated carotenoid biosynthesis in an organism comprising;
 (a) providing a host cell which comprises a carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, said host cell producing a cyclic carotenoid having at least one β-ionone type ring; 
 (b) transforming the host cell of (a) with the nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 or 2 wherein said nucleic acid molecule encodes a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme; and 
 (c) growing the transformed host cell of (b) under conditions whereby the hydroxylated carotenoid biosynthesis is regulated.   
 
     
 A method according to claim 20 wherein the nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme is upregulated. 
 
     
 A method according to claim 21 wherein the nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme is over-expressed on a multicopy plasmid. 
 
     
 A method according to claim 22 wherein the nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme is operably linked to an inducible or regulated promoter. 
 
     
 A method of down-regulating a nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme having a sequence set out in claim 1 or 2 in a host cell, said method comprising
 a) introducing and expressing in antisense orientation all or a segment of said nucleic acid molecule, in said host cell, or 
 b) inserting foreign DNA into the coding region of said nucleic acid molecule so as to disrupt its transcription.   
 
     
 Animal feed comprising the host cell of any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein said host cell is a recombinant microbial host cell. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
