
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Novel temperature regulated promoters having SEQ ID No. 1 as depicted in figure 1, designated as  nmt-185  or SEQ ID No. 2 as depicted in figure 1, designated as  nmt-146.   
 
     
 Novel temperature regulated expression vectors having Accession No. MTCC 5106 and MTCC 5107 deposited at International depository of Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh, India, wherein,
 (a) expression vector having Accession MTCC 5106 is harbouring temperature regulated promoter having SEQ ID No. 1 as depicted in figure 1, designated as  nmt-185  and 
 (b) expression vector having Accession No. MTCC 5107 is harbouring temperature regulated promoter having SEQ ID No. 2 as depicted in figure 1, designated as  nmt-146.     
 
     
 A process of isolating novel temperature regulated promoters from  Schizosaccharomyces pombe  said process comprising the steps of:
 (a) constructing a partial genomic DNA library Schizosaccharomyces pombe with restriction enzyme  Sau 3AI, to obtain partial genomic DNA sequences in the range of about 100 bp to 2000 bp, 
 (b) ligating the genomic DNA library sequences of step (a) with vector pGFP without a promoter 
 (c) transforming the vector of step (b) to  S. pombe  strain, 
 (d) screening of  S. pombe  strain containing the promoter library for the transformants that give GFP expression upon a temperature shift, 
 (e) isolating and identifying two clones of (step d) identified after stimulating GFP expression upon subjecting the transformant colonies to temperature shift, 
 (f) sequencing the genomic DNA fragments of (f) as new promoter elements having SEQ ID No. 1 or SEQ ID No. 2 as depicted in figure 1, designating the promoters as  nmt-185  and  nmt-146,  useful as promoters, and 
 (g) cloning the said promoter elements into the novel vectors having Accession nos. MTCC 5106 and 5107 respectively.   
 
     
 A process of preparing novel expression vectors based temperature regulated novel promoter elements isolated from  Schizosaccharomyces pombe  said process comprising steps of:
 (a) constructing a partial genomic DNA library Schizosaccharomyces pombe with restriction enzyme  Sau 3AI, to obtain partial genomic DNA sequences in the range of about 100 bp to 2000 bp, 
 (b) ligating the genomic DNA library sequences of step (a) with vector pGFP without a promoter 
 (c) transforming the vector of step (b) to  S. pombe  strain, 
 (d) screening of  S. pombe  strain containing the promoter library for the transformants that give GFP expression upon temperature shift, 
 (e) isolating and identifying two clones of (step d) identified after by stimulating GFP expression upon subjecting the transformant colonies to temperature shift, 
 (f) sequencing the genomic DNA fragments of (f) as new promoter elements of 185 bases having SEQ ID No. 1 or 146 bases having SEQ ID No. 2 as depicted in figure 1, designated as  nmt-185  and  nmt-146  respectively, and 
 (g) cloning the said promoter elements into the novel vectors having Accession vector nos. MTCC 5106 and 5107 respectively.   
 
     
 A process as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the step (f) the temperature shifts are 25°C and 37°C. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
