
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 An isolated polypeptide comprising a sequence variant of CymR, the polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80% identical to the amino acid sequence encoded by the CymR coding sequence of (3-4C) pAd CMV5-rcTA deposited with Accession Number 160905-03 at the International Depository Authority of Canada on September 16, 2005 and wherein said polypeptide comprises one or more amino acid residues selected from the group consisting of Val at position 125, Gly at position 142 and Ile at position 144 and exhibits a higher affinity for a CymR response element when in a presence rather than an absence of an effector molecule. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide is incapable of binding DNA in the absence of said effector molecule. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 2, wherein the CymR response element is CuO. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said effector molecule is selected from the group consisting of cumate, Di-methyl p-aminobenzoic acid (DM PABA), trimethyl cu mate, ethylbenzoate, 3,4-dimethylbenzoate, 4-ethylbenzoate, 4-t-butylbenzoate, 4-phenylbenzoate, 4-benzylbenzoate, 4-ethoxybenzoate, 4-propyloxybenzoate, 4-n-butyloxybenzoate, 4-chlorobenzoate, 4-bromobenzoate, 4-iodobenzoate, 4-bromomethylbenzoate, 3,4-dichlorobenzoate, 4-trifluoromethylbenzoate, 4-ethyl-m-xylene, 4-vinyltoluene, 4-n-propyltoluene, 4-allytoluene, 4-fluoro-p-toluate, 3-chloro-p-toluate, and 4-bromo-m-toluate. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the effector molecule is cumate. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 5 comprising Gly at position 142. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the polypeptide comprises Val at position 125, Gly at position 142 and Ile at position 144. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, having at least 90% identity to the amino acid sequence encoded by the CymR coding sequence of (3-4C) pAd CMV5-rcTA deposited with Accession Number 160905-03 at the International Depository Authority of Canada on September 16, 2005. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of claim 8, having at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence encoded by the CymR coding sequence of (3-4C) pAd CMV5-rcTA deposited with Accession Number 160905-03 at the International Depository Authority of Canada on September 16, 2005. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of claim 9, having at least 99% identity to the amino acid sequence encoded by the CymR coding sequence of (3-4C) pAd CMV5-rcTA deposited with Accession Number 160905-03 at the International Depository Authority of Canada on September 16, 2005. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of any one of claim 1 to 10 further comprising a transactivation domain covalently attached to the sequence variant of CymR. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of claim 11, wherein the transactivation domain is suitable for transactivation via RNA polymerase in a eukaryotic host cell. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of claim 11, wherein the transactivation domain is derived from a VP-16 transactivation domain. 
 
     
 The polypeptide of claim 12, wherein the transactivation domain is covalently attached to the sequence variant of CymR via a linker comprising at least two Gly residues. 
 
     
 An isolated polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 14. 
 
     
 A construct comprising the isolated polynucleotide of claim 15 in operable association with a promoter sequence suitable for causing expression of said polynucleotide to generate said polypeptide when said construct is transformed into a host cell. 
 
     
 The construct of claim 16, wherein said host cell is a eukaryotic host cell. 
 
     
 The construct of claim 16, further comprising in operable association with said isolated polynucleotide, at least one CymR response element, whereby expression of said polynucleotide in a host cell to generate said polypeptide can be regulated at least in part through binding of CymR to said response element. 
 
     
 The construct of claim 18, wherein said at least one CymR response element is 3' to said promoter and 5' to said polynucleotide. 
 
     
 The construct of claim 16, wherein the construct is a plasmid or recombinant virus. 
 
     
 A eukaryotic host cell transformed with the construct of claim 16. 
 
     
 The host cell of claim 21, wherein said cell is a mammalian cell. 
 
     
 The host cell of claim 21, wherein the cell is stably transformed with the construct. 
 
     
 The host cell of claim 23, further transformed with a second construct comprising:
 (i) a promoter; 
 (ii) at least one CymR response element; and 
 (iii) an open reading frame encoding a protein to be expressed, in operable association with said promoter and said at least one CymR response element, whereby in an absence of an effector molecule said CymR variant exhibits reducing binding to said at least one CymR response element to cause little or no expression of said open reading frame, and in a presence of an effector molecule said CymR variant exhibits increased binding to said at least one CymR response element to cause expression of said open reading frame, thereby to generate said protein.   
 
     
 A method for producing a recombinant protein in the host cell of claim 21, the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) transforming the host cell with a second construct comprising:
 (i) a promoter sequence; 
 (ii) at least one CymR response element; and 
 (iii) an open reading frame encoding said recombinant protein in operable association with said eukaryotic promoter and said at least one CymR response element;   
 (b) introducing an effector molecule that regulates CymR-mediated expression into the transformed cells of step (a) to induce the expression of said open reading frame thereby to generate said recombinant protein.   
 
     
 The method of claim 25, wherein said promoter is selected from the group consisting of CMV, VLP, tk, HSP, MLP, and MMTV promoters. 
 
     
 The method of claim 25 or 26, wherein said effector molecule is selected from the group consisting of cumate, Di-methyl p-aminobenzoic acid (DM PABA), trimethyl cu mate, ethylbenzoate, 3,4-dimethylbenzoate, 4-ethylbenzoate, 4-t-butylbenzoate, 4-phenylbenzoate, 4-benzylbenzoate, 4-ethoxybenzoate, 4-propyloxybenzoate, 4-n-butyloxybenzoate, 4-chlorobenzoate, 4-bromobenzoate, 4-iodobenzoate, 4-bromomethylbenzoate, 3,4-dichlorobenzoate, 4-trifluoromethylbenzoate, 4-ethyl-m-xylene, 4-vinyltoluene, 4-n-propyltoluene, 4-allytoluene, 4-fluoro-p-toluate, 3-chloro-p-toluate, and 4-bromo-m-toluate. 
 
     
 The method of any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein said second construct comprises a plasmid or a recombinant virus. 
 
     
 The method of any one of claims 25 to 28, wherein said construct comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding an rcTA suitable to facilitate transactivation of said promoter in said second construct in response to a presence of said effector molecule, thereby to cause expression of said recombinant protein. 
 
     
 The method of claim 29, wherein said construct comprises in operable association with said isolated polynucleotide, at least one CymR response element, whereby expression of said polynucleotide in a host cell to generate said polypeptide can be regulated at least in part through binding of CymR to said response element. 
 
     
 The method of claim 30, wherein said host cell is further transformed with an expression cassette expressing CymR, whereby in an absence of said effector molecule said CymR expressed from said expression cassette binds to said construct and inhibits expression of rcTA from said construct, and optionally binds to said second construct and inhibits expression of said open reading frame encoding said recombinant protein, and in a presence of said effector molecule said effector molecule inhibiting binding of said CymR to said construct to cause expression of rcTA, said rcTA binding said CymR response elements in said second construct to facilitate transactivation of said open reading frame causing expression of said recombinant protein. 
 
     
 An  in vitro  method for regulating transcription of an open reading frame in operable association with a promoter and at least one CymR response element, the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) providing a polypeptide comprising a CymR variant having an amino acid sequence that is at least 80% identical to the amino acid sequence encoded by the CymR coding sequence of (3-4C) pAd CMV5-rcTA deposited with Accession Number 160905-03 at the International Depository Authority of Canada on September 16, 2005 and wherein said polypeptide comprises one or more amino acid residues selected from the group consisting of Val at position 125, Gly at position 142 and Ile at position 144, wherein the polypeptide exhibits reversed DNA binding capability in that the CymR variant exhibits stronger DNA binding activity in the presence rather than the absence of an effector molecule; and 
 (b) altering a concentration of said effector molecule.   
 
     
 The method of claim 32, wherein the effector molecule is cumate or an equivalent thereof. 
 
     
 The method of claim 32 or claim 33, wherein said transcription occurs in a mammalian host cell. 
 
     
 The method of any one of claims 32 to 34, wherein the CymR variant comprises Gly at position 142. 
 
     
 The method of claim 32, wherein the CymR variant includes a transactivation domain covalently attached to said CymR variant suitable for facilitating transcription of said open reading frame. 
 
     
 A kit for generating a eukaryotic cell comprising an exogenous gene selectively upregulatable in response to a presence of an effector molecule, the kit comprising;
 (a) a first polynucleotide comprising:
 (i) a first promoter; 
 (ii) at least one CymR response element; and 
 (iii) a cloning site for an open reading frame positioned such that said open reading frame once positioned at said cloning site is in operable association with said promoter, and said at least one CymR response element;   
 (b) a second polynucleotide comprising;
 (i) a second promoter; 
 (ii) an open reading frame encoding a rcTA in operable association with said promoter;   
whereby each of said first and second polynucleotides are suitable for being transformed into a eukaryotic host cell, and in an absence of an effector molecule, said rcTA exhibiting reducing binding to said at least one CymR response element to cause little or no expression of said open reading frame, and in a presence of an effector molecule said CymR variant exhibiting increased binding to said at least one CymR response element to cause expression of said open reading frame and whereby the rcTA comprises at least a portion of CymR sufficient to bind said DNA response element, and has an amino acid sequence that is at least 80% identical to the amino acid sequence encoded by the CymR coding sequence of (3-4C) pAd CMV5-rcTA deposited with Accession Number 160905-03 at the International Depository Authority of Canada on September 16, 2005 and comprises one or more amino acid residues selected from the group consisting of Val at position 125, Gly at position 142 and Ile at position 144. 
 
     
 The kit of claim 37, wherein said first polynucleotide forms at least part of a first construct, and said second polynucleotide forms at least part of a second construct. 
 
     
 The kit of claim 37, wherein said first and second polynucleotides form at least part of a single bicistronic plasmid. 
 
     
 The kit of claim 37, wherein said second polynucleotide further comprises at least one CymR response element, said open reading frame encoding an rcTA in operable association both with said second promoter and said at least one CymR response element. 
 
     
 The kit of claim 40, further comprising:
 (c) a third polynucleotide comprising:
 (i) a third promoter; and 
 (ii) a second open reading frame encoding CymR or an equivalent thereof;   
whereby in an absence of said effector molecule said CymR expressed from said third polynucleotide binds to said at least one CymR response element in said second polynucleotide to inhibit expression of rcTA therefrom, and optionally binds to said first polynucleotide to inhibit expression of said open reading frame, and in a presence of said effector molecule said effector molecule inhibiting binding of said CymR to said at least one CymR response element in said second polynucleotide thereby to cause expression of re TA, said rcTA binding said at least one CymR response element in said first polynucleotide thereby to facilitate expression of said open reading frame. 
 
     
 The kit of claim 37, wherein each of said at least one CymR response element is CuO. 
 
     
 The kit of any one of claims 37 to 42, wherein the rcTA comprises at least a portion of CymR sufficient to bind said DNA response element, and has a sequence comprising Gly at position 142. 
 
     
 The kit of any one of claims 37 to 43, wherein the rcTA comprises a transactivation domain derived from a VP- 16 transactivation domain. 
 
     
 The method of any one of claims 25 to 31, further comprising the step of: shifting the temperature of the host cell to a lower temperature sufficient to facilitate induction of rcTA-mediated expression of said open reading frame. 
 
     
 The method of claim 45, wherein the step of shifting comprises a lowering of the temperature of from 2-10°C. 
 
     
 The method of claim 46, wherein the step of shifting comprises altering the temperature of the cell from about 37°C to about 30°C. 
 
     
 The method of any one of claims 32 to 35, further comprising the step of: shifting the temperature of the host cell to a lower temperature sufficient to facilitate transcription of said open reading frame. 
 
     
 The method of claim 48, wherein the step of shifting comprises a lowering of the temperature of from 2-10°C. 
 
     
 The method of claim 48, wherein the step of shifting comprises altering the temperature of the cell from about 37°C to about 30°C. 
 
     
 A biological material deposited under accession number accession number 160905-01, 160905-02, and 160905-03 in a deposit filed on September 16, 2005 at the Canadian International Depository Authority in at the National Microbiology Laboratory, Health Canada, 1015 Arlington Street, Winnipeg, MB, Canada R3E 3R2. 
 
     
 Use of the biological material of claim 51 for preparing a biological product. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
