
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A process to produce glycolic acid from glycolonitrile comprising:
 a) contacting glycolonitrile in a suitable aqueous reaction mixture with an enzyme catalyst comprising a polypeptides having nitrilase activity, said polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6 with at least one amino acid substitution selected from the group consisting of:
 1) a substitution at amino acid residue 168 with lysine, methionine, threonine or valine; and 
 2) a substitution at amino acid residue 201 with glutamine, glycine, histidine, lysine, asparagine, serine, alanine, cysteine, or threonine; 
whereby glycolic acid is produced; and   
 b) recovering the glycolic acid produced in (a) in the form of a salt or acid   
 
     
 The process of claim 1 wherein said amino acid sequence is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, and 32. 
 
     
 The process of claim 1 or 2, wherein the enzyme catalyst is an improved nitrilase catalyst providing at least a 1.5-fold increase, preferably at least a 2 fold increase more , preferably at least a 4-fold increase in nitrilase activity when converting glycolonitrile to glycolic acid relative to the activity of the  A .  facilis  72W (ATCC 55746) nitrilase under identical reaction conditions. 
 
     
 The process of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the enzyme catalyst is in the form of whole microbial cells, permeabilized microbial cells, one or more cell components of a microbial cell extract, partially purfied enzyme, or purifled enzyme, preferably wherein said whole microbial cell is a transformed microbial host cell recombinantly expressing said polypeptide, and more preferably wherein the transformed microbial host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas sp., Corynebacterium sp., Bravibacterium sp., Rhodococcus sp., Azotobacter sp., Citrobacter sp., Enterobacter sp.. Clostridium sp., Klebsiella sp., Salmonella sp., Lactobacillus sp., Aspergillus sp., Saccharomyces sp., Zygosaccharomyces sp., Pichia sp., Kluyveromyces sp., Candida sp., Hansenula sp., Dunaliella sp., Debaryomyces sp., Mucor sp., Torulopsis sp., Methylobacteria sp., Bacillus sp., Escherichia sp.; Pseudomonas sp., Rhizobium sp.,  and  Streptomyces sp,  more preferably wherein the transformed microbial host cell is  Escherichia coli , and most preferably wherein the transformed microbial host cell is an  Escherichia coli  strain selected from the group consisting of  E. coil  MG1655 having international depository number ATCC 47076 and  E. coli  FM5 having international depository number ATCC 53911. 
 
     
 The process of any one of claims 1-4 wherein the enzyme catalyst is immobilized in or on a soluble or insoluble support. 
 
     
 The process of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the concentration of ammonium glycolate produced in the aqueous reaction mixture is 0.02.wt% to 90 wt%, preferably 0.02 wt% to 40 wt%. 
 
     
 The process of claim 5 wherein the glycolonitrile concentration in the aqueous reaction mixture is in the range of 5 mM to 1M, preferably wherein the glycolonitrile concentration in the aqueous reaction mixture is maintained by continuous or aliquot addition. 
 
     
 The process of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the pH in the aqueous reaction mixture is maintained between 5.5 and 7.7. 
 
     
 the process of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the enzymatic conversion of glycolonitrile to glycolic acid occurs under substantially oxygen free conditions. 
 
     
 The process of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the aqueous reaction mixture further comprises a stabilizer selected form the group consisting of potassium thiosulfate and sodium dithionite at a concentration of less than 5 wt%. 
 
     
 The process of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the enzyme catalyst is a recycled enzyme catalyst. 
 
     
 The process of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the enzyme catalyst provides a catalyst productivity of at least 300 grams of glycolic acid per gram of dry cell weight enzyme catalyst, preferably of at least 450 grams of glycolic acid per gram of dry cell weight enzyme catalyst, and most preferably of at least 1000 grams of glycolic acid per gram of dry cell weight enzyme catalyst. 
 
     
 An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having nitrilase activity, said polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6 with at least one amino acid substitution selected from the group consisting of:
 a) a substitution at amino acid residue 168 with methionine or threonine; and 
 b) a substitution at amino acid residue 201 with glutamine, glycine, histidine, lysine, asparagine, serine, alanine, cysteine, or threonine.   
 
     
 The isolated nucleic acid molecules of claim 13 encoding an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 28, and 30. 
 
     
 The isolated nucleic add molecule of claim 14 having a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7, 9,11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 27, and 29. 
 
     
 The isolated nucleic acid molecule according to claims 13, 14 or 15, encoding a polypeptide having nitrilase activity; 
wherein said polypeptide provides at least a 1.5-fold increase in nitrilase activity relative to the nitrilase activity of the  Acidovarax facilis  72W nitrilase when converting glycolonitrile to glycolic acid under identical reaction conditions. 
 
     
 A chimeric gene comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of one of claims 13-16 operably linked to a suitable regulatory sequence. 
 
     
 An expression cassette comprising the chimeric gene of claim 17. 
 
     
 A transformed host can comprising the expression cassette of claim 18. 
 
     
 The transformed host cell of claim 19, wherein said host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas sp., Corynebacterium sp., Brevibacterium sp., Rhodococcus sp., Azotobacter sp., Citrobacter sp., Enterobacter sp., Clostridium sp., Klebsiella sp., Salmonella sp., Lactobacillus sp., Aspergillus sp., Saccharomyces sp., Zygosaccharomyces sp., Pichia sp., Kluyveromyces sp., Candida sp., Hansenula sp., Dunaliella sp., Debaryomyces sp., Mucor sp., Torulopsis sp., Methylobacteria sp., Bacillus sp., Escherichia sp., Pseudomonas sp., Rhizobium sp.,  and  Streptomyces sp,  preferably wherein said host cell is  Escherichia coli , and most preferably wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of  E .  coli  MG1655 having international depository number ATCC 47076 and  E .  coli  FM5 having international depository number ATCC 53911. 
 
     
 An isolated polypeptide having nitrilase activity, said polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6 with at least one amino acid substitution selected from the group consisting of:
 a) a substitution at amino acid residue 168 with methionine or threonine; 
and 
 b) a substitution at amino acid residue 201 with glutamine, glycine, histidine, lysine, asparagine, serine, alanine, cysteine, or threonine.   
 
     
 The isolated polypeptide of claim 21, 
wherein said polypeptide provides at least a 1.5 fold increase in nitrilase activity relative to the nitrilase activity of the  Acidovorax facilis  72W nitrilase when converting glycolonitrile to glycolic acid under identical reaction conditions. 
 
     
 The isolated polypeptide of claim 21 or 22, encoding an amino acid sequence ; selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 28, and 30. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
