
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 An isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 290605-01. 
 
     
 A humanized antibody produced from the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1. 
 
     
 A chimeric antibody produced from the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1. 
 
     
 An isolated hybridoma cell line deposited with the IDAC as accession number 290605-01. 
 
     
 A method for initiating antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor wherein said human tumor originates from a colon tissue comprising:
 providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 290605-01 or an antigen binding fragment thereof, which antigen binding fragment is  characterized by  an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen; and 
 contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof with said tissue sample; 
 wherein binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof with said tissue sample induces cellular cytotoxicity.   
 
     
 An antigen binding fragment of the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1, or of the humanized antibody of claim 2, or of the chimeric antibody of claim 3. 
 
     
 The isolated antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1, 2, 3 or 6 conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells. 
 
     
 An isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the IDAC as accession number 290605-01 or an antigen binding fragment thereof, which antigen binding fragment is  characterized by  an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, for use in treating a human tumor in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses an at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to said monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof and wherein said human tumor originates from a colon tissue. 
 
     
 The monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 The monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof of claim 9 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 The monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof activates complement, or wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
 The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized, or wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
     
 Use of an isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the IDAC as accession number 290605-01 or an antigen binding fragment thereof, which antigen binding fragment is  characterized by  an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, in the manufacture of a medicament for treating colon cancer. 
 
     
 The use of claim 13 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 The use of claim 14 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 The use of claim 13 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof activates complement, or wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
 The use of claim 13 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized, or wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
     
 An isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the IDAC as accession number 290605-01 or an antigen binding fragment thereof, which antigen binding fragment is  characterized by  an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, for use as a medicament. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
