
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Pseudomonas sp. HN-72 (Accession No. KCTC 10819BP) capable of converting 2-formyl-6-naphthoic acid to 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid. 
 
     
 A method for purifying 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid using Pseudomonas sp. HN-72 (Accession No. KCTC 10819BP). 
 
     
 The method according to claim 2, wherein the method comprises the steps of:
 1) inoculating the Pseudomonas sp. HN-72 (Accession No. KCTC 10819BP) onto a liquid medium, culturing the inoculum with shaking, collecting the cultured bacteria, and washing the collected bacteria with physiological saline to activate the bacteria; 
 2) mixing a crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid as a matrix with a buffer solution and adjusting the pH of the mixed solution to prepare a reaction solution for subsequent purification; and 
 3) reacting the active bacteria (Pseudomonas sp. HN-72) prepared in step 1) with the reaction solution prepared in step 2) to convert 2-formyl-6-naphthoic acid contained in the crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid to 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, so that the purity of the 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid is increased.   
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the liquid medium is an LB or M9 medium. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the shake culture is performed at a temperature of 25 to 37°C. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the bacteria (Pseudomonas sp. HN-72) collected after the shake culture is stored in a freezer at 4°C or lyophilized. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the buffer solution is selected from the group consisting of water, potassium phosphate (KH2PO4)-KOH buffer, sodium pyrophosphate-HCl buffer, boric acid-NaOH buffer, and sodium borate-HCl buffer. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the buffer solution is potassium phosphate-KOH or boric acid-NaOH buffer. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the buffer solution has a concentration of 0.01 to 100 mM. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the pH of the mixed solution is adjusted to the range of 7.5 to 8.0. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the mixed solution further contains an organic solvent. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 11, wherein the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of dimethylsulfoxide, N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide, tetrahydrofuran (THF), and mixtures thereof. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 11, wherein the organic solvent is added at a concentration of 0.01 to 10%. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein, in step 3), the reaction is conducted in a temperature range of 30 to 50°C. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
