
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A microorganism belonging to the genus Escherichia with improved L-amino acid productivity and sucrose-assimilating ability, which has the activities of sucrose permease, sucrose hydrolase and sucrose transcriptional regulator and has an enhanced mannokinase activity as compared to a sucrose non-assimilative microorganism belonging to the genus Escherichia. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the enhanced mannokinase activity is achieved by one or more methods selected from the group consisting of an increase of copy number of mannokinase gene, promoter replacement, promoter mutation, and gene mutation. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 2, wherein the increase of copy number of mannokinase gene is achieved by inserting a polynucleotide encoding mannokinase into a chromosome or introducing the polynucleotide into a vector system. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 3, wherein the vector contains a base sequence of SEQ ID NO. 15. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the activities of sucrose permease, sucrose hydrolase and sucrose transcriptional regulator is imparted by transformation with a vector containing base sequences encoding sucrose permease, sucrose hydrolase and sucrose transcriptional regulator. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 5, wherein the base sequences are base sequences of SEQ ID NOs. 4, 6 and 7. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 5, wherein the sucrose transcriptional regulator is encoded by a base sequence of SEQ ID NO. 17. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein a vector containing all base sequences encoding sucrose permease, sucrose hydrolase, sucrose transcriptional regulator and mannokinase is used to perform transformation. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 8, wherein the vector is encoded by a base sequence of SEQ ID NO. 18. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the microorganism belonging to the genus  Escherichia  is E.coli. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 10, wherein the E.coli is E.coli CA03-0308 deposition number: KCCM10978P. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the L-amino acid is selected from the group consisting of L-threonine, O-succinyl-homoserine, O-acetyl-homoserine, L-methionine, L-lysine, L-homoserine, L-isoleucine, L-valine and L-tryptophan. 
 
     
 The microorganism according to claim 12, wherein the L-amino acid is selected from the group consisting of L-threonine, O-succinyl-homoserine, O-acetyl-homoserine and L-tryptophan. 
 
     
 A method for producing an L-amino acid, comprising the steps of:
 inoculating and culturing the  Escherichia  microorganism having the improved L-amino acid productivity and sucrose-assimilating ability according to any one of claims 1 to 13 in a culture medium that totally or partially contains sucrose as a carbon source; and 
 separating the L-amino acid from the culture medium obtained from the above step.   
 
     
 The method according to claim 14, wherein the L-amino acid is selected from the group consisting of L-threonine, O-succinyl-homoserine, O-acetyl-homoserine, L-methionine, L-lysine, L-homoserine, L-isoleucine, L-valine and L-tryptophan. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
