
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Uricase mutant strains selected from deposits having accession numbers MTCC No. 5797 and MTCC No. 5798. 
 
     
 The uricase mutant strains as claimed in claim 1 expressing proteins with SEQ ID No.: 2 or SEQ ID No.:3, wherein the proteins are encoded by nucleotides having a SEQ ID No: 5 or SEQ ID No.: 6. 
 
     
 A recombinant vector capable of expressing proteins having sequences SEQ ID No. 2 and SEQ ID No. 3. 
 
     
 The recombinant vector as claimed in claim 3, comprising nucleotide having sequences SEQ ID No. 5 and SEQ ID No. 6. 
 
     
 A method for preparation of mutant strains of uricase having accession numbers MTCC No. 5797 & MTCC No.5798, said method comprising steps of:
 (a) isolating a nucleotide of interest having SEQ ID No. 4 using primers; 
 (b) creating mutation in SEQ ID No.4 at position corresponding to position 62 and /or 167 in the protein sequence to obtain recombinant sequences; 
 (c) cloning of the recombinant nucleotides obtained in step (b) in a vector construct to obtain a recombinant vector; 
 (d) transforming the recombinant vector obtained in step (d) in a suitable host for expression of the recombinant sequences; and 
 (e) obtaining the mutant strains of uricase.   
 
     
 The method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the recombinant nucleotides have SEQ ID No: 5 and SEQ ID No: 6 and said recombinant nucleotides encode recombinant proteins having SEQ ID No.: 2 and SEQ ID No.: 3. 
 
     
 The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the recombinant proteins are uricase proteins 
 
     
 The method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the primers are represented by SEQ ID No.: 9, SEQ ID No.: 10, SEQ ID No.: 11 and SEQ ID No.: 12, wherein SEQ ID No.: 9 and SEQ ID No.: 10 are forward and reverse primers for nucleotide with SEQ ID No.: 5 and SEQ ID No.: 11 and SEQ ID No.: 12 are forward and reverse primers for nucleotide with SEQ ID No: 6. 
 
     
 A pharmaceutical composition comprising an uricase as claimed in claims 1-7 along with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. 
 
     
 The pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 9, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is used for the preparation of a medicament. 
 
     
 Medicament as claimed in claim 10 for the treatment of hyperuricemia, gout and/or for reducing serum uric acid levels. 
 
     
 The pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 9, for the treatment of a metabolic disorder or disease, wherein the metabolic disorder or disease is associated with increased or elevated levels of uric acid. 
 
     
 The pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 12, for the treatment of metabolic disorder or disease wherein the metabolic disease or disorder includes hyperuricemia, gout, Lesch-Nyan syndrome, Cardiovascular disease, Type 2 diabetes, Metabolic syndrome and/or Uric acid stone formation, Tumor lysis syndrome, osteogenesis imperfect. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
