
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A method for mass production of human coagulation factor VII derivatives, comprising:
 a) constructing an expression vector, comprising i) a nucleotide sequence of a dihydrofolate reductase promoter devoid of at least one CCGCCC repeat sequence from the GC-rich region thereof and a nucleotide sequence encoding a dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) operably linked thereto, and ii) a nucleotide sequence of a cytomegalovirus (CMV) early gene promoter and a nucleotide sequence encoding a human coagulation factor VII derivative operably linked thereto; 
 b) transfecting an animal cell line with the expression vector of step a); 
 c) culturing the transfected animal cell line of step b) in the presence of a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor to select a cell line capable of expressing the human coagulation factor VII derivative with high efficiency; and 
 d) culturing the animal cell line selected from step c) by adding at least one selected from the group consisting of sodium butyrate, vitamin K, and a culture medium supplement, wherein:
 when sodium butyrate is added: (i) the concentration of sodium butyrate is from 1.1 mM to 3.5 mM and the culture temperature of step d) is from 32.5°C to 35.0°C; or (ii) the concentration of sodium butyrate is from 1.2 mM to 2.0 mM and the culture temperature of step d) is from 31°C to 32.5°C; 
 the culture medium supplement is soy hydrolysate or yeast extract; 
 the human coagulation factor VII derivative has a partial sequence of SOD1 (superoxide dismutase 1) at the C-terminus of human coagulation factor VII; and 
 vitamin K of step d) is vitamin K1.     
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein:
 (i) the GC-rich region comprises one or less CCGCCC repeat sequence; 
 (ii) the nucleotide sequence encoding the human coagulation factor VII derivative has a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8; or 
 (iii) the expression vector is pXOGC-FVII described in FIG. 1.   
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein the animal cell line of step b) is selected from the group consisting of a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line, a monkey kidney cell line (COS7), an NSO cell line, an SP2/0 cell line, a W138, a baby hamster kidney (BHK) cell line, MDCK, a myeloma cell line, an HuT 78 cell line, and a 293 cell line. 
 
     
 The method of claim 3, wherein the animal cell line is deficient in dihydrofolate reductase gene. 
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein the selected cell line of step c) is HMF709 (Accession No. KCTC 12022BP). 
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein the concentration of sodium butyrate is 1.5 mM when the culture temperature of step d) is 33.0°C. 
 
     
 The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein 
vitamin K of step d) is in a concentration from 0.1 mg/L to 3 mg/L. 
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein:
 (i) the culture medium supplement of step d) is yeast extract; or 
 (ii) soy hydrolysate or yeast extract in a concentration from 0.1 g/L to 3 g/L is added to the culture medium.   
 
     
 The method of claim 1, which further comprises (a) purifying human coagulation factor VII derivative; or (b)activating the human coagulation factor VII derivative. 
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein, in step d), the animal cell line selected from step c) is cultured in the presence of soy hydrolysate or yeast extract. 
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein ,in step d), the animal cell line selected from step c) is cultured in the presence of yeast extract. 
 
     
 The method of claim 1, wherein the partial sequence of SOD1 is ATKAVC (SEQ ID NO: 5). 
 
     
 A method for mass production of human coagulant factor VII derivatives comprising culturing an HMF709 cell line (Accession No. KCTC 12022 BP), capable of producing human coagulation factor VII derivatives by adding at least one selected from the group consisting of sodium butyrate, vitamin K, and a culture medium supplement; 
wherein the culture medium supplement is soy hydrolysate or yeast extract; and vitamin K is vitamin K1; 
wherein when sodium butyrate is added: (i) the concentration of sodium butyrate is from 1.1 mM to 3.5 mM and the culture temperature is from 32.5°C to 35.0°C; or (ii) the concentration of sodium butyrate is from 1.2 mM to 2.0 mM and the culture temperature is from 31°C to 32.5°C. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
