
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A method of producing a polyester resin composition containing a polyester resin and pentaerythritol, the method comprising a step of mixing the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol together in the presence of water. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to claim 1, comprising a step of mixing the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol together in a state where the water is added thereto. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to claim 1 or 2, comprising steps of:
 mixing the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol together; and 
 adding the water to the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol.   
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein 
a step of mixing the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol together, a step of adding the water to the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol, and a step of mixing the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol together in a state where the water is added thereto are sequentially performed. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, comprising a step of removing the water. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein 
all the steps are performed during melt-kneading. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein 
the polyester resin and the water are mixed together in a ratio of 1 to 100 parts by weight of the water to 100 parts by weight of the polyester resin. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein 
the polyester resin and the pentaerythritol are mixed together in a ratio of 0.05 to 20 parts by weight of the pentaerythritol to 100 parts by weight of the polyester resin. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein 
the polyester resin is polyhydroxyalkanoate. 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to claim 9, wherein 
the polyhydroxyalkanoate contains a repeating unit represented by the following general formula (1): 
 
        [-CHR-CH 2 -CO-O-]     (1) 
 
(wherein R is an alkyl group represented by C n H 2n+1  and n is an integer of not less than 1 and not more than 15). 
 
     
 The method of producing a polyester resin composition according to claim 9 or 10, wherein 
the polyhydroxyalkanoate is at least one selected from poly(3-hydroxybutyrate), poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate), 
poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate-co-3-hydroxyhexanoate), 
poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyhexanoate), and 
poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate). 
 
     
 A polyester resin molded article produced by the method of producing a polyester resin composition according to any one of claims 1 to 11. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
