
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A composition for preventing or improving inflammation, the composition comprising, as an active ingredient, an extract obtained by performing an extraction process on a seed of soybean  Glycine max  (L.) Merrill cultivar SCEL-1 by using water, C 1 -C 6  alcohol, or a mixture thereof, wherein the seed contains cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, procyanidin B2, and epicatechin, wherein an amount of the procyanidin B2 is greater than that of the cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, and a representative sample of the seed is deposited with the Korean Agricultural Culture Collection(KACC), which is an International Depository Authority(IDA) under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purpose of Patent Procedure under the accession number KACC 88002BP on November 8, 2018. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 1, wherein a total amount of cyanidine-3-O-glucoside, procyanidine B2, and epicatechin in the extract is in a range of 2.1 % to 3.4 % based on a total weight of the extract. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 2, wherein the cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, the procyanidin B2, and the epicatechin are contained at a ratio of 1: 2.0 to 2.1: 0.43 to 0.48 based on a total weight of the extract. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 1, wherein an amount of the extract is in a range of 0.005 % to 99.9 % based on a total weight of the composition. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 1, wherein the inflammation includes skin inflammation, atopic dermatitis, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
 
     
 The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition is food, a cosmetic composition, or a pharmaceutical composition. 
 
     
 A composition for preventing or improving inflammation, the composition comprising, as an active ingredient, cyanidin-3-O-glucoside or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, procyanidin B2 or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, and epicatechin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof at a weight ratio of 1: 2.0 to 2.1: 0.43 to 0.48 on a weight basis, respectively. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 7, wherein an amount of each of the cyanidin-3-O-glucoside or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, the procyanidin B2 or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, and the epicatechin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof is in a range of 0.005 % to 99.9 %. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 7, wherein the inflammation includes skin inflammation, atopic dermatitis, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
 
     
 The composition of claim 7, wherein the composition is food, a cosmetic composition, or a pharmaceutical composition. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 7, wherein the composition comprises an extract obtained by performing an extraction process on a seed of soybean cultivar by using water, C 1 -C 6  alcohol, or a mixture thereof, wherein a representative sample of the soybean cultivar seed is deposited with the Korean Agricultural Culture Collection(KACC), which is an International Depository Authority(IDA) under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purpose of Patent Procedure under the accession number KACC 88002BP on November 8, 2018. 
 
     
 A method of preventing or improving occurrence of inflammation in a subject, the method comprising administering the composition of claim 1 to a subject. 
 
     
 The method of claim 12, wherein the administration is applied locally to the skin. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
