
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A cancer vaccine composition comprising
 a. one or more first cancer cells modified to express a first hyper-cytokine, 
 b. optionally one or more second cancer cells modified to express a second hyper-cytokine, and 
 c. one or more stem cells, 
wherein the first and/or second hyper-cytokine is a fusion protein comprising a cytokine receptor and a cytokine. 
 
     
 The composition according to claim 1, wherein the stem cells are induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) or cancer cell derived stem cells (CDSCs), wherein optionally the stem cells are modified to express a third hyper-cytokine. 
 
     
 The composition according to claim 2, wherein the CDSCs are obtained by inducing stem cell like properties in one or more third cancer cells, in particular by cultivating the third cancer cells in a sphere culture. 
 
     
 The composition according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the first, second and/or third cancer cells are independently selected from a melanoma cell, a renal carcinoma cell, a prostate cancer cell, a colon cancer cell, a lung cancer cell, a pancreas cancer cell, a liver cancer cell, a brain cancer cell, a head and neck cancer cell, or a sarcoma cell. 
 
     
 The composition according to any of claims 3 to 4, wherein the CDSCs are  characterized by  at least one of: increased Stat3 phosphorylation, increased ALDH1 activity, increased expression of VEGF, CD44 and/or PD-L1 and decreased expression of tyrosinase, MITF and/or MHC in comparison to said third cancer cells, particularly the CDSCs are  characterized by  increased Stat3 phosphorylation, increased ALDH1 activity, increased expression of VEGF, CD44 and PD-L1 and decreased expression of tyrosinase, MITF and/or MHC in comparison to said third cancer cells, more particularly the CDSCs are obtained by inducing stem cell like properties in melanoma cells and are  characterized by  increased Stat3 phosphorylation, increased ALDH1 activity, increased expression of VEGF, CD44 and PD-L1 and decreased expression of tyrosinase, MITF and MHC in comparison to said melanoma cells. 
 
     
 The composition according to claim 2, wherein the iPSCs are  characterized by  expression of at least one of the following markers: SSEA-1, Epcam, E-cadherin, NANOG, alkaline phosphatase and/or Oct3/4, particularly by expression of Epcam, E-cadherin, NANOG, alkaline phosphatase and Oct3/4, more particularly by expression of SSEA-1, Epcam, E-cadherin, NANOG, alkaline phosphatase and Oct3/4. 
 
     
 The composition according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the first, second and/or third hyper-cytokine is a fusion protein comprising
 a. an IL-6 receptor (IL-6R) part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human soluble IL-6R (sIL-6R), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from P113 to A323 of SEQ ID NO: 1, 
 b. an IL-6 part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human interleukin-6 (IL-6), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from P29 to M212 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and 
 c. optionally a peptide linker; 
having hyper-cytokine activity or
 a. an IL-11 receptor (IL-11R) part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human soluble IL-11 receptor (sIL-11R), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from M1 to Q365 of SEQ ID NO: 3, 
 b. an IL-11 part exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to human interleukin-11 (IL-11), wherein said sequence identity is calculated over the entire length of the polypeptide sequence from A19 to L199 of SEQ ID NO: 4, and 
 c. optionally a peptide linker 
having hyper-cytokine activity. 
 
     
 The composition according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the first, second and/or third hyper-cytokine comprises or consists of
 a. a polypeptide having the amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 6, SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO: 8 or SEQ ID NO: 9; or 
 b. a polypeptide exhibiting at least 90% sequence identity to a polypeptide according to (a) and having hyper-cytokine activity.   
 
     
 The composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the first and/or second cancer cells modified to express a first or second hyper-cytokine are melanoma cells, in particular Michl-H6, deposited under accession number DSM ACC2839 with DSMZ, or Mich2-H6, deposited under accession number DSM ACC2840 with DSMZ 
 
     
 The composition according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the first cancer cells, second cancer cells, and/or stem cells are allogenic. 
 
     
 The composition according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the proliferation of the first cancer cells, second cancer cells, and stem cells is inhibited, in particular by radioactive irradiation or chemical cross-linking. 
 
     
 A pharmaceutical composition comprising a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 11, additionally comprising pharmaceutically acceptable diluents, carriers, excipients, fillers, binders, lubricants, glidants, disintegrants, adsorbents, and/or preservatives. 
 
     
 A composition according to any of claims 1 to 11 for use in medicine. 
 
     
 A composition according to any of claims 1 to 11 for use in a method of treatment, prevention and/or prevention of recurrence of cancer, particularly a cancer selected from the group consisting of gastrointestinal or colorectal tract, liver, pancreas, kidney, bladder, prostate, endometrium, head and neck cancer, ovary, testes, prostate, skin, eye, melanoma, invasive oral cancer, small cell and non-small cell lung cancer, hormone-dependent breast cancer, hormone independent breast cancer, transitional and squamous cell cancer, neurological malignancy, including neuroblastoma, endocrinological tumour, hematologic neoplasia, carcinoma in situ, hyperplastic lesion, adenoma, and fibroma, more particularly melanoma. 
 
     
 The composition for use according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the patient to be treated has a partially or completely different HLA type than the first cancer cells, second cancer cells, and/or stem cells, in particular a partially or completely different HLA type than the first cancer cells and the stem cells. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
