
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 An isolated strain of  Lactobacillus delbruekii,   characterised in that  it comprises:
 (a) a genomic nucleic acid sequence encoding 16S ribosomal RNA comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1; and 
 (b) a genomic nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of a sequence encoding the ATP-dependent Clp protease ATP-binding subunit ClpX (ClpX) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 2, a sequence encoding the chromosomal replication initiation protein DnaA comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 3, a sequence encoding the GroEL protein comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 4, a sequence encoding the UDP-N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanyl-D-glutamate-L-lysine ligase protein (MurE) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 5, a sequence encoding the phenylalanine-tRNA ligase alpha subunit (PheS) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 6, a sequence encoding the CTP synthetase (PyrG) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 7, a sequence encoding recombinase A (RecA) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 8, a sequence encoding the DNA-dependent RNA polymerase beta subunit (RpoB) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 9, a sequence encoding the beta-galactosidase protein comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 28, a sequence encoding the galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase protein (GalT) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 29, a sequence encoding the galactokinase protein comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 30, a sequence encoding the UDP-galactopyranose mutase protein (GIF) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 31, a sequence encoding the UDP-glucose 4-epimerase protein (GalE) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 32, a sequence encoding the pyruvate kinase protein comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 33, a sequence encoding the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase protein comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 34, a sequence encoding the pyruvate oxidase protein (Pox5_1) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 35, a sequence encoding the pyruvate oxidase protein (Pox5_2) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 36, a sequence encoding the acetate kinase protein comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 37, a sequence encoding the succinate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase protein [NADP(+)] (GabD) comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 38, a sequence encoding the acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase protein comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 39, and any combination thereof.   
 
     
 The isolated strain of  Lactobacillus delbruekii  according to claim 1, which is deposited at the Belgian Coordinated Collections of Microorganisms (BCCM) Laboratorium voor Microbiologie - Bacteriënverzameling (LMG) International Depository Authority, Gent, Belgium, with accession number LMG P-31789. 
 
     
 A method for preparing a dermatological composition for topical application to the skin, employing sweet dairy whey as the starting material, the method comprising the steps of:
 (i) removing the lipid and protein components from said whey, thereby obtaining an aqueous fraction of the sweet dairy whey; 
 (ii) subjecting said aqueous fraction to fermentation by using the isolated strain of  Lactobacillus delbruekii  as defined in claim 1 or 2.   
 
     
 The method according to claim 3, wherein the sweet dairy whey is obtained from bovine milk. 
 
     
 The method according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the removal of the lipid component from the sweet dairy whey is carried out by thermocalcic precipitation. 
 
     
 The method according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the removal of the protein component from the sweet dairy whey is carried out by ultrafiltration. 
 
     
 A dermatological composition for topical application to the skin comprising one or more galacto-oligosaccharides and butyric acid,  characterised in that  it is obtainable through the method according to any one of claims 3 to 6. 
 
     
 The dermatological composition for topical application to the skin as defined in claim 7, for use in the treatment of a skin disease selected from the group consisting of acne, atopic dermatitis, wounds, burns, and ageing skin damage. 
 
     
 Cosmetic use of the dermatological composition as defined in claim 7 for topical application to the skin. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
