
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A DNA fragment characterized by the nucleotide sequence given in table 2. 
 
     
 2. A DNA fragment originating from Bacillus thuringiensis var.kurstaki from Hpal (O) to Pstl (4355) coding for an insecticidal proteinaceous substance including truncated portions thereof, said truncated DNA portions being subject to the proviso that insectidical activity has not been lost. 
 
     
 3. A DNA fragment according to claim 1 coding for the insecticidal protein MGE 1 including truncated portions thereof, said truncated DNA portions being subject to the proviso that insecticidal activity has not been lost. 
 
     
 4. A proteinaceous substance at least partially being encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 5. A proteinaceous substance at least partially being encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 6. A proteinaceous substance containing a fragment characterized by the amino acid sequence given in table 3. 
 
     
 7. The protein MGE 1 being encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 8. The protein MGE 1 being encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 9. The protein MGE 1 characterized by the amino acid sequence given in table 3. 
 
     
 10. A fusion protein according to claim 4 consisting of the protein MGE 1 and another protein different from the protein MGE 1. 
 
     
 11. A fusion protein according to claim 10, wherein the protein being different from the protein MGE 1 possesses pesticidal activity. 
 
     
 12. A fusion protein according to claim 11, wherein the protein being different from the protein MGE 1 possesses insecticidal activity. 
 
     
 13. A fusion protein according to claim 5 consisting of the protein MGE 1 and another protein different from protein MGE 1. 
 
     
 14. A fusion protein according to claim 13, wherein the protein being different from the protein MGE 1 possesses pesticidal activity. 
 
     
 15. A fusion protein according to claim 14, wherein the protein being different from the protein MGE 1 possesses insecticidal activity. 
 
     
 16. A DNA vector containing a DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 17. A vector according to claim 16 which is a plasmid. 
 
     
 18. A vector according to claim 16 which is a phage. 
 
     
 19. A DNA vector containing a DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 20. A vector according to claim 19 which is a plasmid. 
 
     
 21. A vector according to claim 19 which is a phage. 
 
     
 22. A microorganism containing a DNA fragment according to claim 1 with the proviso that, if said microorganism belongs to the group of Bacillus thuringiensis var.kurstaki, said Bacillus has been transformed with the DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 23. A microorganism according to claim 22, said microorganism belonging to the species
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
 
     
 24. A microorganism containing a DNA fragment according to claim 2 with the proviso that, if said microorganism belongs to the group of Bacillus thuringlensis var.kurstaki, said Bacillus has been transformed with the DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 25. A microorganism according to claim 24, said microorganism belonging to the species
Saccharomyces cerevisiae.   
 
     
 26. A bioencapsulation system consisting of a first material completely embedded in a second material of biological origin, the first material being represented by a DNA fragment according to claim 1 and the second material being represented by a whole microorganism with the proviso that, if said microorganism belongs to the group of Bacillus thuringiensis var.kurstaki, said
Bacillus has been transformed with the DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 27. A bioencapsulation system according to claim 26, wherein the microorganism is Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
 
     
 28. A bioencapsulation system consisting of a first material completely embedded in a second material of biological origin, the first material being represented by a DNA fragment according to claim 2 and the second material being represented by a whole microorganism with the proviso that, if said microorganism belongs to the group of Bacillus thuringiensis var.kurstaki, said Bacillus has been transformed with the DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 29. A bioencapsulation system according to claim 28, wherein the microorganism is Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
 
     
 30. A method for producing a DNA fragment according to claim 1, which method comprises the following steps:
a) isolating and lysing cells of B. thuringiensis var. kurstaki HD1 and separating plasmids from the material thus obtained by methods known per se. The plasmid material thus obtained is purified and dialysed;
b) preparing a DNA library of B. thuringiensis var. kurstaki HD1 plasmid DNA;
c) cloning the fragmented plasmid DNA obtained according to step b) in a suitable vector, preferably a plasmid;
d) screening for the presence of protein MGE 1 which can be done, for example, by the following steps e) to g)::
e) screening of the clones for the presence of antigen responding to antibodies prepared against the crystal protein of B. thuringiensis var. kurstaki (screening for expression of the respective polypeptide);
f) selecting the clones being specifically reactive with goat antiserum; and
g) testing insecticidal activity of extracts of said clones obtained according to step f). 
 
     
 31. A method for producing a DNA fragment according to claim 2, which method comprises the following steps:
a) isolating and lysing cells of B. thuringiensis var. kurstaki HD1 and separating plasmids from the material thus obtained by methods known per se. The plasmid material thus obtained is purified and dialysed;
b) preparing a DNA library of B. thuringiensis var. kurstaki HD1 plasmid DNA;
c) cloning the fragmented plasmid DNA obtained according to step b) in a suitable vector, preferably a plasmid:
d) screening for the presence of protein MGE 1 which can be done, for example, by the following steps e) to g)::
e) screening of the clones for the presence of antigen responding to antibodies prepared against the crystal protein of B. thuringiensis var. kurstaki (screening for expression of the respective polypeptide);
f) selecting the clones being specifically reactive with goat antiserum; and
g) testing insecticidal activity of extracts of said clones obtained according to step f). 
 
     
 32. A method for combating insects which comprises applying to the insects or their habitats in insecticidally effective amount of a proteinaceous substance at least partially encoded by a
DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 33. A method according to claim 32 for combating insects of the order Lepidoptera. 
 
     
 34. A method for combating insects which comprises applying to the insects or their habitats an insecticidally efective amount of a proteinaceous substance at least partially encoded by a
DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 35. A method according to claim 34 for combating insects of the order Lepidoptera. 
 
     
 36. A method for combating insects which comprises applying to the insects or their habitats an insecticidally effective amount of the protein MGE 1 encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 37. A method according to claim 36 for combating insects of the order Lepidoptera. 
 
     
 38. A method for combating insects which comprises applying to the insects or their habitats an insecticidally effective amount of the protein MGE 1 encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 39. A method according to claim 38 for combating insects of the order Lepidoptera. 
 
     
 40. An insecticidal composition comprising an insecticidally effective amount of a proteinaceous substance at least partially encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 1. 
 
     
 41. An insecticidal composition comprising an insecticidally effective amount of a proteinaceous substance at least partially encoded by a DNA fragment according to claim 2. 
 
     
 42. A method for combating insects which comprises applying to the insects or their habitats  an insecticidally effective amount of a microorganism according to any one of claims 22 to 25. 
 
     
 43. A method for combating insects which comprises applying to the insects or their habitats an insecticidally effective amount of a bioencapsulation system according to any one of claims 26 to 29.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
