
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Claims 1. A fish virus, which when injected intraperitoneally or intramuscularly in doses of 0.1 -0.2 mI/fish of an infected GF-1 cell homogenate prepared from 1st passage of the virus, has the ability to introduce the symptoms and disease of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome (CMS) and wherein: i) said virus is the strain deposited under the Budapest Treaty with the European Collection of Cell Culture (ECACC), Health Protection Agency, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire (UK), SP4 OJG UK on the 29 March 2007 under accession number 07032902 or a strain with related genotypic and/or phenotypic characteristics, and/or ii) said virus reacts with immune serum from rabbit raised against the strain deposited under ECACC accession number 07032902.  
 
     
 2. The virus according to claim 1, said virus being obtainable from the strain deposited under the Budapest Treaty with the European Collection of Cell Culture (ECACC), Health Protection Agency, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire (UK), SP4 OJG UK on the 29 March 2007 under accession number 07032902.  
 
     
 3. The fish virus of claim 2, said virus being obtainable from said deposited strain by passage on a cell line and/or genetic manipulation.  
 
     
 4. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus having a diameter of 60-100 nm.  
 
     
 5. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being a spherical virus having an approximate diameter of 70 nm.  
 
     
 6. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said virus upon rate-zonal density gradient centrifugation localizes in a fraction having density in between 1,160 and 1,175 g/l in a sucrose gradient, or in a fraction having a density in between 1,090 and 1,110 g/l in a sucrose gradient.  
 
     
 7. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said virus when provided in a tissue homogenate from an infected fish, is incapable of growing in any cell line from the group consisting of: BF-2 (Bluegill fry, caudal trunk), BB (Brown bullhead, connective tissue and muscle), RTG-2 (Rainbow trout, gonadal tissue), SHK-1 (salmon head, kidney), CHSE-214 (Chinook salmon, embryo), CCO (Channel catfish, ovary), CHH-1 (Chum salmon, heart fibroblast) and FHM (Fat head minnow, epithelial like).  
 
     
 8. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being inactivated by incubation with 10% v/v chloroform for 30 minutes at 20°C with continuous shaking.  
 
     
 9. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being inactivated by incubation at 70°C for 30 minutes while being insensitive to incubation at 60°C for 30 minutes.  
 
     
 10. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being insensitive to incubation with 100 ig/mI DNA synthesis inhibitor BrdU.  
 
     
 11. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being in an isolated form and/or substantially or essentially free of other viral or microbial material.  
 
     
 12. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being attenuated or inactivated.  
 
     
 13. A cell line comprising the fish virus as defined in any of claims 1-12.  
 
     
 14. The cell line according to claim 13, wherein the cell line is derived from Epinephelus coloides.  
 
     
 15. The cell line according to claim 13, wherein said cell line is GF-1 (ATCC PTA-859).  
 
     
 16. A vaccine comprising a virus as defined in anyone of claims 1-12, or a component or part of said virus.  
 
     
 17. The vaccine according to claim 16, said vaccine comprising an amount of antigen, which is in the range of 0.05-1.5 mg/mI, and/or said vaccine being for administration in dosages comprising an amount of antigen corresponding to a TCID50 of 105_lOla per dosage  
 
     
 18. The vaccine according to claim 16 or 17, in a formulation comprising an adjuvant.  
 
     
 19. The vaccine according to claim 17 or 18 further comprising a suitable pharmaceutical carrier.  
 
     
 20. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 18 in a formulation comprising an antigen from a bacterial source, an antigenic material obtained from a viral source other than the fish virus as defined in claims 1-12, an antigenic material obtained from a parasitical source, and/or an antigenic material obtained from a fungal source.  
 
     
 21. The vaccine according to claim 20, wherein said antigen from a bacterial source is selected from the group consisting of live, attenuated or killed bacteria of the species Piscirickettsias sp. Aeromonas sp., Vibrio sp., Listonella sp., Moritella viscosa, Photobacterium damsela, F/a vobacterium sp., Yersinia sp., Renibacterium sp., Streptococcus sp., Lactococcus sp., Leuconostoc sp., Bifidobacterjum sp., Pediococcus sp., Brevibacterium sp., Edwarsiella sp., Francisella sp., Pseudomonas sp., Cytophaga sp., Nocardia sp., Mycobacerium sp., parts or subunits of these bacteria, and any combination hereof.  
 
     
 22. The vaccine according to claim 20, wherein said antigenic material obtained from a viral source other than the fish virus as defined in any of claims 1-12 is from a virus selected from the group consisting of Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), Infectious Hematopoietic Necrosis virus (IHNV), Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis Virus (IPNV), Spring Viremia of Carp (SVC), Channel Catfish Virus (CCV), Infectious Salmon Anaemia virus (ISAV), pancreatic disease virus (SPDV), Iridovirus, and heart and skeletal muscle inflammation virus (HSMIV), parts or subunits of any one of these viruses, and combinations hereof.  
 
     
 23. The vaccine according to claim 20 or 22, wherein said antigenic material obtained from a viral source other than the fish virus as defined in any of claims 1-12 is selected from the group consisting of Glycoprotein of Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), nucleoprotein of Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), glycoprotein of Infectious Hematopoietic Necrosis virus (IHNV), nucleoprotein structural proteins of Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis Virus (IPNV), G protein of Spring Viremia of Carp (SVC), and a membrane-associated protein, tegumin or capsid protein or glycoprotein, of Channel Catfish Virus (CCV) and antigenic fragments of any of one of these proteins.  
 
     
 24. The vaccine according to claim 20, wherein said parasitic source is selected from the group consisting of Lepeophtheirus Sp., Caligus Sp., and Ichthyophthirius Sp., parts of any of these parasites, and combinations hereof.  
 
     
 25. The vaccine according to claim 18, wherein said fungal source is selected from the group consisting of Sapro/egnia Sp., Branchiomyces sanguinis, Branchiomyces demigrans and Icthyophonus hoferi.  
 
     
 26. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 25, said vaccine being formulated for administration to a fin fish.  
 
     
 27. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 25, said vaccine being formulated for administration to a telostei.  
 
     
 28. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 27, said vaccine being formulated for administration by a route selected from the group consisting of: Bath, immersion, intraperitoneal injection, intramuscular injection and oral administration.  
 
     
 29. A feed comprising a vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 28.  
 
     
 30. The isolated antibody according to claim 29 comprising a marker.  
 
     
 31. A method of isolating or producing a virus as defined in any of claims 1-12, said method comprising i) producing a homogenate of a tissue from a fish suffering from/showing the symptoms of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome (CMS); ii) inoculating a cell culture of a suitable cell line; iii) isolating virus particles from said cell and/or from the medium in which the cell is cultured.  
 
     
 32. A virus as defined in any of claims 1-12 or a part of said virus for use in medicine/veterinary medicine.  
 
     
 33. A virus as defined in any of claims 1-12 or a part of said virus for use in prevention of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome (CMS) in fish and/or for reducing the viral load in a fish and/or for reducing the incidence of CMS in a population of fish and/or for treatment of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome (CMS) in fish and/or for reducing the incidence and/or severity of lesions caused by Cardiomyopathy Syndrome Virus in fish.  
 
     
 34. Use of the virus as defined in any of claims 1-12 or parts of said virus for the manufacture of a medicament for prevention of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome (CMS) in fish and/or for reducing the viral load in a fish and or for reducing the incidence of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome in a population of fish and/or for treatment of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome in fish and/or for reducing the incidence and/or severity of lesions caused by Cardiomyopathy Syndrome Virus in fish.  
 
     
 35. A fish vaccine according to any oneof claIms 16 to 28 for use in * preventing and/or reducing Cardlomyopathy Syndrome In fish and/or for * reducing the viral load In a fish and/or for reducing the Incidence of * Cardiomyopathy Syndrome in a population of fish and/or for reducing the incidence and/or severity of lesions caused by Cardlomyopathy Syndrome In fIsh.  
 35. A method for prevention of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome in fish and/or for reducing the viral load in a fish and or for reducing the incidence of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome in a population of fish and/or for treatment of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome in fish, and/or for reducing the incidence and/or severity of lesions caused by Cardiomyopathy Syndrome Virus in fish, said method comprising administering to the fish a vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 28. 5?  
 Amendments to the claims have been filed as follows Claims 1. A fish virus, which when injected intraperitoneally or Intramuscularly in doses of 0.1 -0.2 mi/fish of an infected GF-1 cell homogenate prepared from 1g passage of the virus, has the ability to introduce the symptoms and disease of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome (CMS) and wherein: i) said virus is the strain deposited under the Budapest Treaty with the European Collection of Cell Culture (ECACC), Health Protection Agency, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire (UK), SP4 0)G UK on the 29 March 2007 under accession number 07032902 or a strain with related genotypic and/or phenotypic characteristics, and/or II) said virus reacts with immune serum from rabbit raised against the strain deposited under ECACC accession number 07032902.  
 2. The virus according to claim 1, said virus being obtainable from the strain deposited under the Budapest Treaty with the European Collection of Cell Culture (ECACC), Health Protection Agency, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire (UK), SP4 0)G UK on the 29 March 2007 under accession number 07032902.  
 3. The fish virus of claim 2, said virus being obtainable from said deposited strain by passage on a cell line and/or genetic manipulation.  
 4. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus having a diameter of 60-100 nm.  
 5. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being a spherical virus having an approximate diameter of 70 nm.  
 6. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said virus upon rate-zonal density gradient centrlfugation localizes in a fraction having density in between 1,160 and 1,175 g/l in a sucrose gradient, or in a fraction having a density in between 1,090 and 1,110 g/l in a sucrose gradient.  
 7. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said virus when provided in a tissue homogenate from an infected fish, Is incapable of growing in any cell line from the group consisting of: BF-2 (Bluegill fry, caudal trunk), BB (Brown bullhead, connective tissue and muscle), RTG-2 (Rainbow trout, gonadal tissue), SHK-1 (salmon head, kidney), CHSE-214 (Chinook salmon, embryo), CCO (Channel catfish, ovary), CHH-1 (Chum salmon, heart fibroblast) and FIlM (Fat head minnow, epithelial like).  
 8. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being inactivated by incubation with 10% v/v. chloroform for 30 minutes at 20°C with continuous shaking.  
 9. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being inactIvated by incubation at 70°C for 30 minutes while being insensitive to incubation at 60°C for 30 minutes.  
 10. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being insensitive to incubation with 100 tg/ml DNA synthesis inhibitor BrdU.  
 11. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being In an Isolated form and/or substantially or essentially free of other viral or microbial material.  
 12. The fish virus according to any of the preceding claims, said virus being attenuated or inactivated.  
 13. A cell line comprising the fish virus as defined In any of claims 1-12.  
 14. The cell line according to claim 13, wherein the cell line Is derived from Epinephelus coioldes.  
 15. The cell line according to claim 13, wherein said cell line is GF-1 (ATCC PTA-859).  
 16. A vaccine comprising a virus as defined In anyone of claims 1-12, or a component or part of said virus.  
 17. The vaccine according to claim 16, said vaccine comprising an amount of antigen, which Is in the range of 0.05-1.5 mg/mI, and/or said vaccine being for administration in dosages comprising an amount of antigen corresponding to a TUD50 of i05-i0° per dosage 18. The vaccine according to claim 16 or 17, in a formulation comprising an adjuvant.  
 19. The vaccine according to claim 17 or 18 further comprising a suitable pharmaceutical canler.  
 20. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 18 In a formulation comprising an antigen from a bacterial source, an antigenic material obtained from a viral source other than the fish virus as defined in claims 1-12, an antigenic material obtained from a parasitical source, and/or an antigenic material obtained from a fungai source.  
 21. The vaccine according to claim 20, wherein said antigen from a bacterial source Is selected from the group consisting of live, attenuated or killed bacteria of the species Plsclrlckettslas sp. Aeromonas sp., VIbrIo sp., Listonella sp., Moritella viscosa, Photobacterlum damsela, Flavobacterium sp., Yersinla sp., Renlbacterlum sp., Streptococcus sp., Lactococcus sp., Leuconostoc sp., Bifidobacterfum sp., Pedlococcus sp., Brevlbacterlum sp., Edwarsiel!a sp., Francisella sp.., Pseudomonas sp,, Cytophaga sp., Nocardla sp., Mycobacerlum sp., parts or subunits of these bacteria, and any combination hereof.  
 22. The vaccine according to claIm 20, wherein said antigenic material obtained from a viral source other than the fish virus as defined in any of claims 1-12 is from a virus selected from the group consisting of Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), Infectious Hematopoletic Necrosis virus (IHNV), Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis Virus (IPNV), Spring Viremla of Carp (SVC), Channel Catfish Virus (CCV), Infectious Salmon Anaemia virus (ISAV), pancreatic disease virus (SPDV), Iridovirus, and heart and skeletal muscle Inflammation virus (HSMIV), parts or subunits of any one of these viruses, and combinations hereof.  
 23. The vaccine according to claim 20 or 22, whereIn said antigenic material obtained from a viral source other than the fish virus as defined In any of claims 1-12 is selected from the group consisting of Glycoprotein of Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), nucleoprotein of Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV), glycoprotein of Infectious Hematopoletic Necrosis virus (IHNV), nucleoprotein structural proteins of Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis Virus (IPNV), G protein of Spring Viremia of Carp (SVC), and a membrane-associated protein, tegumin or capsid protein or glycoprotein, of Channel Catfish Virus (CCV) and antigenic fragments of any of one of these proteins.  
 24. The vaccine according to claim 20, wherein said parasitic source is selected from the group consisting of Lepeophthelrus Sp., Caligus Sp., and Ichthyophthlrlus Sp., parts of any of these parasites, and combinations hereof.  
 25. The vaccine according to claim 18, wherein said fungal source is selected from the group consisting of Saprolegnia Sp,, Branchlomyces sangulnis, Branchiomyces demigrans and Icthyophonus hoferi.  
 26. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 25, said vaccine being formulated for administration to a fin fish.  
 27. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 25, saId vaccine being formulated for administration to a telostei.  
 28. The vaccine according to any of claims 16 to 27, said vaccine being formulated for administration by a route selected from the group consisting of: Bath, immersion, intraperitoneal injection, intramuscular injection and oral administration.  
 -I  
 * 29. A feed comprising a vaccine according to any of daims 16 th 28.  
 30. The Isolated antibody according to dalm 29 comprising a marker.  
 31. A method of isolating or producing a virus as defined In any of claIms 1-12, said method comprising I) producing a homogenate of a tissue from a fish suffering from/showing thern symptoms of Cardlomyopathy Syndrome (CMS); * H) Inoculating a cell culture of a suitable cell line; * * iii) Isolating virus particles from said cell and/or from the medium In which the * cell Is cultured. *  
 * 32.AvlnJsasdeflned1nanyofdaIms112orapofsaid,ft,rIfl medicine/veterinary medicine.  
 33. A virus as defined in any of daims 1-12 or a part of said virus for use In * prevention of Cardlomyopathy Syndrome (CMS) In fish and/or for reducing the viral load In a fish anI/or for reducing the Incidence of CNS in a population ofiIsh * and/or for treatment of Cardlomyopathy Syndrome (CMS) In fish and/or for * reducing the incidence and/or severity of lesions caused by.Cardlomyopathy * Syndrome Virus in fish.  
 34. Use of the virus as defined in any of daims 1-12 or parts of saidvirus for the manufacbjre of a medicament for prevention of Cardiomyopathy Syndrome (CtIS) in fish and/or for reducing the viral load in a fish and or.for reducing the incidence * of Cardlomyopathy Syndrome in a population of fish arid/or for treatment of * Cardiomyopathy Syndrome in fish and/or for reducing the Incidence and/or severity of lesions caused by Cardlomyopathy Syndrome Virus in fish.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
