
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A seed of an alfalfa plant comprising event KK179-2, wherein a representative sample of seed comprising event KK179-2 has been deposited with the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) with the Patent t Designation PTA-11833. 
 
     
 2. An alfalfa plant or parts thereof comprising event KK179-2 produced by growing the seed of claim 1. 
 
     
 3. The alfalfa plant or parts thereof of claim 2, sing pollen, ovule, flowers, shoots, roots or leaves. 
 
     
 4. A y plant or parts thereof an alfalfa plant of claim 2 wherein said progeny plant or parts thereof comprise alfalfa event 2. 
 
     
 5. The progeny plant or parts thereof, of claim 4 further comprising pollen, ovule, flower, shoots, roots or leaves. 
 
     
 6. The alfalfa plant or seed or parts thereof of claim 4, the genome of which produces an amplicon comprising a DNA molecule selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3 and SEQ ID NO:4. 
 
     
 7. A recombinant DNA molecule comprising a. a polynucleotide le selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ ID NO: 2; b. a polynucleotide molecule with at least 90% identity to the full length of SEQ ID NO: 6; or c. a cleotide molecule mentary to a) or b). 
 
     
 8. The DNA molecule of claim 7, wherein a representative sample of seed comprising event KK179-2 has been deposited under ATCC Accession NO. PTA-11833. 
 
     
 9. The DNA molecule of claim 7, n said DNA molecule is an amplicon produced from a template molecule derived from DNA from event KK179-2. 
 
     
 10. A polynucleotide probe diagnostic for the ce of event KK179-2 DNA, wherein said polynucleotide probe is of sufficient length to bind to a c acid le comprising SEQ ID NO: 1, and SEQ ID NO: 2, or complements thereof, and n said polynucleotide probe hybridizes under stringent hybridization conditions with a DNA molecule comprising SEQ ID NO: 1, or SEQ ID NO: 2, or complements thereof and does not hybridize under stringent hybridization conditions with a DNA molecule not sing SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, or complements thereof. 
 
     
 11. A method of detecting the presence of a DNA molecule derived from event KK179-2 in a DNA sample, the method comprising: a. contacting said DNA sample with the polynucleotide probe of claim 6; b. subjecting said DNA sample and said polynucleotide probe to ent hybridization conditions; and c. detecting hybridization of said polynucleotide probe to said DNA molecule derived from event KK179-2 in said DNA sample. 
 
     
 12. A pair of DNA molecules consisting of a first DNA molecule and a second DNA molecule different from the first DNA le, wherein said first and second DNA molecules comprise a polynucleotide molecule having a nucleotide sequence of sufficient length of consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 6, or a complement thereof, to on as DNA primers when used together in an amplification reaction with a template derived from event KK179-2 to e an amplicon diagnostic for event KK179-2 DNA in a sample. 
 
     
 13. A DNA detection kit comprising at least one cleotide molecule of sufficient length of consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 6, or complements thereof, to function as a DNA primer or polynucleotide probe specific for detecting the presence of DNA derived from event KK179-2, wherein detection of said DNA is diagnostic for the presence of said KK179-2 DNA in a sample. 
 
     
 14. The DNA detection kit of claim 13, wherein at least one polynucleotide molecule is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1, and SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 
     
 15. A microorganism comprising the DNA molecule of claim 7. 
 
     
 16. The microorganism of claim 15, n said microorganism is a plant cell. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
