
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 
   
 1. A method of identifying a tumor as sensitive to treatment the method comprising: 1 (FOLRl) antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof, tissue sample obtained from the (a) measuring the level of FOLRl expression in a tumor wherein the measuring comprises the use of a detection method that tumor, distinguishes between staining intensity and staining uniformity in a FOLRl- and staining uniformity in expressing cancer sample as ed to staining intensity one or more reference samples; tissue sample; and (b) determining a FOLRl staining intensity score for the tumor reference (c) comparing the FOLRl ng intensity score determined in step (b) to a value ined by ing FOLRl protein expression in at least one nce is a tissue, cell, or cell pellet sample sample, wherein the at least one reference sample or antigen binding which is not sensitive to treatment with an anti-FOLRl antibody fragment thereof, determined in wherein a FOLRl staining intensity score for the tumor tissue sample step (b) that is higher than the reference value identiﬁes the tumor as being sensitive binding fragment thereof, and treatment with an anti-FOLRl antibody or antigen for treatment wherein the anti-FOLRl antibody or antigen binding nt thereof the amino acid sequence GYFMN (SEQ comprises (i) a heavy chain (HC) CDRl comprising the amino acid ce RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG ID NO:6); a HC CDR2 sing the amino acid sequence MDY (SEQ (SEQ ID NO:7); and a HC CDR3 comprising (LC) CDRl comprising the amino acid chain sequence ID NO:8) and (ii) a light the amino acid sequence KASQSVSFAGTSLMH (SEQ ID N029); a LC CDR2 comprising RASNLEA (SEQ ID N0210); and a LC CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID NO] 1). or antigen g 
 
     
 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the anti—FOLRl antibody amino acid HC variable domain comprising the fragment thereof for treatment comprises (i) a the amino acid sequence NO:3 and (ii) a LC variable domain comprising ce of SEQ ID of SEQ ID N024 or 5. or binding 
 
     
 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the anti-FOLRl antibody antigen acid sequence fragment thereof for treatment comprises (i) a HC comprising the same amino -68— encoded by the plasmid ted with the American as the amino acid sequence of the HC Type e tion (ATCC) as PTA—10772 (ii) a LC comprising the same amino encoded by the d deposited with acid sequence as the amino acid sequence of the LC the ATCC as PTA-10773 or PTA—10774. with anti—FOLRI 
 
     
 4. A method of identifying as sensitive to treatment an a tumor immunoconjugate, the method sing: tissue sample obtained from the (a) measuring the level of FOLRl sion in a tumor measuring comprises the use of a detection method that tumor, wherein the intensity and staining uniformity in distinguishes between staining a FOLRI and staining uniformity in expressing cancer sample as compared to staining intensity one or more reference samples; the tumor tissue sample; and (b) determining a FOLRl staining intensity score for reference (c) comparing the FOLRI staining intensity score ined in step (b) to a value determined by measuring FOLRI protein expression in at least one reference is a tissue, cell, or cell pellet sample sample, wherein the at least one reference sample anti-FOLRI immunoconjugate, which is not sensitive to treatment with an determined in wherein a FOLRI staining intensity score for the tumor tissue sample identifies the tumor as being sensitive to step (b) that is higher than the reference value treatment with an anti—FOLRI immunoconjugate, for treatment has the formula (A) ~ (L) — wherein the anti-FOLRI immunoconjugate (C), wherein: (A) comprises an OLRI antibody or antigen binding fragment amino acid sequence GYFMN (SEQ ID NO:6); a comprising (i) a HC CDRl comprising the RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ ID NO:7); HC CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence (SEQ ID N021 1), LC CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence QQSREYPYT (L) ses a linker, (C) comprises a cytotoxic agent, and wherein (L) links (A) to (C). 
 
     
 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the anti-FOLRl antibody or antigen g HC variable domain comprising the nt thereof of the immunoconjugate comprises (i) a amino amino acid sequence of SEQ ID N023 and (ii) a LC variable domain comprising the acid ce of SEQ ID NO:4 or 5. method of claim 5, wherein the anti—FOLRl antibody or antigen binding 
 
     
 6. The (i) amino a HC comprising the same fragment thereof of the immunoconjugate comprises HC encoded by the plasmid deposited with acid sequence as the amino acid sequence of the acid sequence as the the ATCC as PTA—10772 and (ii) a LC comprising the same amino PTA— the plasmid deposited with the ATCC as amino acid sequence of the LC encoded by 10773 or PTA-10774. wherein the linker is selected from the group 
 
     
 7. The method of any one of claims 4—6, a dicarboxylic acid based ting of: a hydrophilic linker, and a non-cleavable linker, linker. of: N- linker is selected from the group ting 
 
     
 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the (SMCC); N—sulfosuccinimidyl 4- succinimidyl 4—(maleimidomethyl) cyclohexanecarboxylate (maleimidomethyl) cyclohexanecarboxylate (sulfoSMCC); N-succinimidyl—4—(iodoacetyl)- enzoate (STAB); and N-succinimidyl—[(N-maleimidopropionamido)— tetraethyleneglycol] ester (NHS-PEG4—maleimide). wherein the linker is a cleavable linker. 
 
     
 9. The method of any one of claims 4—6, 
 
     
 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the cleavable linker is selected from the group consisting of: N-succinimidyl 4-(2-pyridyldithio)pentanoate (SPP); N—succinimidyl 4-(2- ldithio)~2~sulfopentanoate (sulfo—SPP); N-succinimidyl 4-(2-pyridyldithio)butanoate (sulfo—SPDB). (SPDB); and inimidyl 4-(2—pyridyldithio)sulfobutanoate linker is N—succinimidyl 4—(2- 
 
     
 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the cleavable pyridyldithio)sulfobutanoate -SPDB). wherein the cytotoxic agent is selected from 
 
     
 12. The method of any one of claims 4-11, analog, benzodiazepine, taxoid, CC— the group consisting of: a maytansinoid, maytansinoid dolastatin, 1065, CC-1065 analog, duocarmycin, duocarmycin analog, calicheamicin, and leptomycin derivative or a prodrug dolastatin analog, atin, tomaymycin tive, of the cytotoxic agent. is a maytansinoid. 
 
     
 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the xic agent wherein the agent is N(2’)-deacetyl-N(2')-(3- 
 
     
 14. The method of claim 13, cytotoxic mercapto—l—oxopropyl)—maytansine (DMl) or deacetyl-N(2')—(4-mercapto-4—methyl—1— oxopentyl)-maytansine (DM4). 
 
     
 15. The method of claim 13, n the linker is N-succinimidyl 4-(2—pyridyldithio) sulfobutanoate (sulfo-SPDB), and wherein the cytotoxic agent is N(2')—deacety1—N(2')-(4- mercapto-4—methyl- l -oxopentyl)—maytansine (DM4). binding or 
 
     
 The method of claim 13, n the anti—FOLRl antibody antigen amino comprises (i) a HC comprising the same fragment thereof of the immunoconjugate with of the HC encoded by the plasmid deposited acid sequence as the amino acid sequence amino acid sequence as the the ATCC as PTA—10772 and (ii) a LC comprising the same ATCC as PTA- the plasmid deposited with the amino acid sequence of the LC encoded by PTA—10774, wherein the linker is N—succinimidyl 4—(2—pyridyldithio) 10773 or the agent is N(2‘)~deacetyl—N(2')-(4- sulfobutanoate (sulfo—SPDB), and wherein cytotoxic mercapto—4-methyl—l —oxopentyl)-maytansine (DM4). is performed 
 
     
 17. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the detection method is med 
 
     
 18. The method of any one of claims 1—16, wherein the detection method using an automated system. of claims 1—18, wherein the detection method is 
 
     
 19. The method of any one immunohistochemistry (IHC). is ated IHC that can distinguish 
 
     
 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the IHC different levels of FOLRl expression, _ 71 the tumor tissue sample is a formalin 
 
     
 21. The method of claim 19 or claim 20, wherein fixed parafﬁn embedded sample. 
 
     
 22. The method of any one of claims 1-21, wherein the detection method produces a for samples having weak FOLRl expression, moderate FOLRl range of staining intensity expression, or strong FOLRl expression. has a 
 
     
 23. The method of any one of claims 19-21, wherein the tumor tissue sample FOLRl expression by IHC. staining intensity score of l or greater for tissue sample has a staining uniformity 
 
     
 24. The method of claim 23, n the tumor for FOLRl expression that is heterogeneous. tissue sample has a staining uniformity 
 
     
 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the tumor for FOLRl expression that is homogenous. tissue wherein 25-75% of cells of the tumor 
 
     
 26. The method of any one of claims 19—21, of l or greater. sample have a ng intensity score of cells of the 
 
     
 27. The method of any one of claims 19-21, wherein greater than 75% score of l or r. tumor tissue sample have a staining intensity has a 
 
     
 28. The method of any one of claims 19-21, wherein the tumor tissue sample for FOLRl expression by IHC. staining intensity score of 2 or greater the tumor tissue sample has a ng uniformity 
 
     
 29. The method of claim 28, wherein for FOLRl expression that is heterogeneous. the tumor tissue sample has a staining uniformity 
 
     
 30. The method of claim 28, n for FOLRl expression that is homogenous. tissue wherein 25—75% of cells of the tumor 
 
     
 31. The method of any one of claims 19—21, of 2 or greater. sample have a staining intensity score of the 
 
     
 32. The method of any one of claims 19-21, wherein greater than 75% of cells score of 2 or greater. tumor tissue sample have a staining intensity 19~21, wherein the tumor tissue sample has a 
 
     
 33. The method of any one of claims by IHC. staining intensity score of 1, 2, 3, or 3+ for FOLRl expression tissue sample has a staining uniformity 
 
     
 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the tumor for FOLRl expression that is heterogeneous. tissue sample has a staining uniformity 
 
     
 35. The method of claim 33, wherein the tumor for FOLRl expression that is neous. 
 
     
 36. The method of any one of claims 1-35, wherein the level of FOLRI expression is nt thereof that Specifically measured using a detection dy or antigen binding binds FOLRl. ion antibody or antigen binding fragment 
 
     
 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the the amino acid sequence GYFMN (SEQ ID thereof comprises (i) a HC CDRl comprising acid sequence GDTFYNQKFQG (SEQ NO:6); a HC CDR2 comprising the amino the amino acid sequence YDGSRAMDY (SEQ ID ID N027); and a HC CDR3 comprising FAGTSLMH N028) and (ii) a LC CDRl comprising the amino acid sequence S the amino acid sequence RASNLEA (SEQ ID (SEQ ID N019); a LC CDR2 comprising N010); and a LC CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence QQSREYPYT (SEQ ID NO:11). detection antibody or antigen binding fragment 
 
     
 38. The method of claim 36, wherein the the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID thereof comprises (i) a HC variable domain comprising N0:4 or the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID N0:3 and (ii) a LC variable domain comprising detection antibody or antigen binding fragment 
 
     
 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the acid thereof comprises (i) same amino acid ce as the amino a HC sing the ATCC as PTA-10772 and (ii) encoded by the plasmid deposited with the sequence of the HC a LC comprising the same amino acid ce as the amino acid sequence of the LC encoded by the plasmid deposited with the ATCC as PTA-10773 or PTA~10774. 
 
     
 40. The method of claim 36, n the detection antibody or antigen binding fragment thereofis BN3.2. 
 
     
 41. The method of any one of claims 36—40, wherein the detection antibody or antigen g fragment thereof comprises a detection reagent. 
 
     
 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the detection reagent is selected from the group and a luminophore. consisting of: an enzyme, a fluorophore, a radioactive label, is selected from the group 
 
     
 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the detection reagent ine. consisting of: biotin, digoxigenin, cein, tritium, and concentration of the detection 
 
     
 44. The method of any one of claims 36-43, wherein the about 3.8 ug/ml. antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof is about 0.9 to is an endometrial tumor. 
 
     
 45. The method of any one of claims 1-44, wherein the tumor is an ovarian tumor. 
 
     
 46. The method of any one of claims 1—44, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the 
 
     
 47. The method of any one of claims 1—44, wherein the tumor peritoneum. ImmunoGen, Inc. By the patent attorneys for the ant CULLENS 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
