
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Craims 
 : 1. | A method of expressing a recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N- ~ glycans from a host cell, the method comprising: (a) introducing a nucleic acid encoding a recombinant protein into a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell comprising a mutation in the GnT 1 gene (GenBank Accession Number AF343963) leading to loss of GnT 1 function; and (c) expressing the recombinant protein from the host cell, in which the expressed recombinant protein comprises a mannose-terminated glycan structure in which the method does not include a step of introducing functional GnT-I into the host cell. ” 
 - 2. A method according to Claim 1, in which the method does not include a step of introducing a nucleic acid encoding functional GnT-I into the host cell. 
 3. A method according to Claim 1 or 2, in which the CHO cell is selected with Ricinus communis agglutinin I (RCA-I) or a descendent thereof. 
 4. A method according to 3, in which at selection with RCA-I comprises comprising culturing CHO cells in the presence of Ricinus communis agglutinin 1 (RCA-I) and selecting cells which survive the culture, in which for example: (a) the CHO cells are exposed to RCA-I at a concentration of between 0.1ug/ml to 100ug/ml, for example up to 50 pg/ml or up to 20png/ml, such as 10pug/ml or Spg/ml; or (b) the CHO cells are exposed RCA-1 for a period of from an hour, a few hours (such as 2, 3,4, 5,6, 7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12), overnight, to a few days, . such as 2 days or 3 days, such as overnight, optionally together with a further step of selecting cells which do not react with RCA-I in an agglutination test. 
 5. A method according to any preceding claim, in which the host cell is adapted to suspension culture. 
 6. A method according to any preceding claim, in which the host cell comprises a JW152 cell line (deposited at ATCC under the Budapest Treaty as accession number PTA-9657). 
 7. A method according to any preceding claim, in which at step (b) an expression construct comprising nucleic acid encoding the recombinant protein in an expression vector such as pcDNA3.1 is introduced into the host cell. SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26) 
 8. A method according to any preceding claim, in which the nucleic acid encoding the : recombinant protein is transformed or stably integrated into the host cell. 
 9. A method according to any preceding claim, further comprising the step of isolating and/or purifying the expressed recombinant protein. 
 10. A method according to any preceding claim, in which the protein comprises: (a) a sequence having GenBank Accession Number NP_000148.2 or a variant, homologue, derivative or fragment thereof having glucocerebrosidase activity; : (b) a tumour-specific or tumour-associated antigen such as MUCI1, HER2/neu and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and antigenic portions thereof; or (c) a viral antigen. 
 11. A method according to any preceding claim, in which the nucleic acid comprises a sequence having GenBank Accession Number NM_000157 or a variant, homologue, derivative or fragment thereof encoding a protein comprising glucocerebrosidase activity. 
 12. A recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N-glycans such as glucocerebrosidase, MUC1, HER2/neu and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) expressed by a host cell line according to any preceding claim. 
 13. A JW152 cell (deposited at ATCC under the Budapest Treaty as accession number PTA-9657) comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein with glucocerebrosidase activity, MUC1, HER2/neu or carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and which is preferably capable of expression of such a protein. 
 14. A method of expressing a mannose-terminated protein having glucocerebrosidase activity, MUC1, HER2/neu or carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) from a host cell, the method comprising: (a) providing a JW152 cell (deposited at ATCC under the Budapest Treaty as accession number PTA-9657) comprising a nucleic acid encoding a protein having glucocerebrosidase activity, MUC1, HER2/neu and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) as the case may be; and (b) allowing the respective protein to be expressed from the cell SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26) 
 in which the method does not include a step of introducing functional GnT-I into the host cell. 
 15. A method comprising expressing a recombinant protein comprising mannose- terminated N-glycans from a host cell according to any of Claims 1 to 11, 13 or 14, or providing a recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N-glycans according to Claim 12, and administering the recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N- : glycans to an individual in need thereof. : : 16. A method according to Claim 15 for treatment of Gaucher’s Disease, in which the recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N-glycans comprises a recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N-glycans with glucocerebrosidase activity. 
 17. A recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N-glycans according to Claim : 12 for use in a method of treatment of Gaucher’s Disease, in which the recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N-glycans comprises a recombinant protein comprising mannose-terminated N-glycans with glucocerebrosidase activity. 
 18. A JWI152 cell (deposited at ATCC under the Budapest Treaty as accession number PTA-9657) comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein, which protein when expressed is desired to comprise a mannose-terminated glycan structure. 
 19. A method, recombinant protein, cell or cell line substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as shown in the accompanying drawings. : SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26) 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
