
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   一種微生物，係具有增強的屍胺生產力，其係相較於非經修飾之微生物，該微生物具有經引入或增強之蛋白活性之一蛋白，該蛋白具有SEQ ID NO：23或SEQ ID NO：26的胺基酸序列，且該蛋白活性與其固有活性相比係增強的。
 A microorganism having enhanced cadaverine productivity, which is a protein having introduced or enhanced protein activity having SEQ ID NO: 23 or SEQ ID NO: 26 compared to a non-modified microorganism The amino acid sequence, and the activity of the protein is enhanced compared to its intrinsic activity.
 
 
 
 
 
   如請求項1所記載之微生物，其中二胺乙醯基轉移酶活性與內源活性相比之下係進一步減弱。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the diamine acetyltransferase activity is further weakened as compared with the endogenous activity.
 
 
 
 
 
   如請求項2所記載之微生物，其中該二胺乙醯基轉移酶具有選自由SEQ ID NO：12、SEQ ID NO：13及SEQ ID NO：14組成之群的胺基酸序列。
 The microorganism according to claim 2, wherein the diamine acetyltransferase has an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 12, SEQ ID NO: 13, and SEQ ID NO: 14.
 
 
 
 
 
   如請求項1所記載之微生物，其中該微生物為屬於棒狀桿菌屬或埃希氏菌屬之微生物。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the microorganism is a microorganism belonging to the genus Corynebacterium or Escherichia.
 
 
 
 
 
   如請求項1所記載之微生物，其中該微生物為屬於棒狀桿菌屬之微生物，該微生物中另外引入離胺酸去羧酶的活性，藉此進一步產生屍胺。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the microorganism is a microorganism belonging to the genus Corynebacterium, and the activity of the deaminase decarboxylase is additionally introduced into the microorganism, thereby further producing cadaverine.
 
 
 
 
 
   一種製造屍胺之方法，其包含以下步驟：(i)培養如請求項1至5中任一項所記載之微生物以獲得細胞培養物；及(ii)自該經培養之微生物或該細胞培養物回收屍胺。
 A method for producing cadaverine, comprising the steps of: (i) cultivating the microorganism according to any one of claims 1 to 5 to obtain a cell culture; and (ii) culturing the cultured microorganism or the cell Recovery of cadaverine.
 
 
 
 
 
   如請求項6所記載之製造屍胺之方法，其中該微生物為屬於棒狀桿菌屬或埃希氏菌屬之微生物。
 The method for producing cadaverine according to claim 6, wherein the microorganism is a microorganism belonging to the genus Corynebacterium or Escherichia.
 
 
 
 
 
   如請求項7所記載之製造屍胺之方法，其中該微生物為屬於棒狀桿菌屬之微生物，該微生物中另外引入離胺酸去羧酶的活性。
 The method for producing cadaverine according to claim 7, wherein the microorganism is a microorganism belonging to the genus Corynebacterium, and the activity of the deaminase decarboxylase is additionally introduced into the microorganism.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
