
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   一種用於製造乳酸之 Saccharomyces 屬微生物，其中，該微生物係經修飾為具有相較於其內生性活性為去活化的丙酮酸脫羧酶(PDC)之活性、引入ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶(ACL)之活性，以及增強相較於其內生性生合成途徑之丙酮酸生合成途徑。
 A microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  for producing lactic acid, wherein the microorganism is modified to have activity of pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) which is deactivated compared to its endogenous activity, and introduces ATP-citrate lyase (ACL) Its activity, as well as enhancing the pyruvate biosynthetic pathway compared to its endogenous biosynthetic pathway. 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第1項所述之微生物，其中，相較於其內生性活性，該增強丙酮酸生合成途徑係藉由增強磷酸烯醇丙酮酸羧化激酶1(PCK1)、丙酮酸激酶2(PYK2)之活性或兩者之活性而達成。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the enhanced pyruvate synthesis pathway is enhanced by phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase 1 (PCK1) and pyruvate kinase 2 as compared to its endogenous activity. The activity of (PYK2) or the activity of both is achieved.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第1項所述之微生物，其中，相較於其內生性活性，該增強丙酮酸生合成途徑係藉由增強蘋果酸脫氫酶2(MDH2)、細胞溶質的蘋果酸酶1(細胞溶質MAE1)之活性或兩者之活性而達成。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the enhanced pyruvate synthesis pathway is enhanced by malate dehydrogenase 2 (MDH2), cytosolic malic enzyme 1 compared to its endogenous activity. The activity of (cytosolic MAE1) or the activity of both is achieved.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第1項所述之微生物，其中，丙酮酸脫羧酶係由選自由SEQ ID NO：39、41及43之胺基酸序列所組成之群組之至少一胺基酸序列所表示之酵素。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the pyruvate decarboxylase is represented by at least one amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 39, 41 and 43 Enzyme.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第1項所述之微生物，其中，ATP-檸檬酸裂解酶係由SEQ ID NO：29之胺基酸序列所表示之酵素。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the ATP-citrate lyase is an enzyme represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 29.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第2項之微生物，其中，磷酸烯醇丙酮酸羧化激酶1係由SEQ ID NO：31之胺基酸序列所表示之酵素以及丙酮酸激酶2係由SEQ ID NO：33之胺基酸序列所表示之酵素。
 The microorganism according to claim 2, wherein the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase 1 is an enzyme represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 31 and the pyruvate kinase 2 is derived from SEQ ID NO: 33. An enzyme represented by an amino acid sequence.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第3項之微生物，其中，蘋果酸脫氫酶2係由SEQ ID NO：35之胺基酸序列所表示之酵素以及細胞溶質的蘋果酸酶1係由SEQ ID NO：37或SEQ ID NO：52之胺基酸序列所表示之酵素。
 The microorganism of claim 3, wherein the malate dehydrogenase 2 is an enzyme represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 35 and the cytosolic malic enzyme 1 is SEQ ID NO: 37 or The enzyme represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 52.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第1項之微生物，其中，該微生物進一步經修飾為引入乳酸脫氫酶(LDH)之活性。
 The microorganism of claim 1, wherein the microorganism is further modified to introduce lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第8項之微生物，其中，該乳酸脫氫酶係由SEQ ID NO：49之胺基酸序列所表示之酵素。
 The microorganism of claim 8, wherein the lactate dehydrogenase is an enzyme represented by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 49.
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第1項之微生物，其中，該微生物進一步經修飾為：(i)去活化相較於其內生性活性的乙醇脫氫酶1(ADH1)之活性；(ii)去活化相較於其內生性活性的丙酮酸脫羧酶1(PDC1)之活性；以及(iii)去活化相較於其內生性活性的D-乳酸脫氫酶1(DLD1)之活性。
 The microorganism of claim 1, wherein the microorganism is further modified to: (i) deactivate the activity of the alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (ADH1) compared to its endogenous activity; (ii) deactivate the phase The activity of endogenously active pyruvate decarboxylase 1 (PDC1); and (iii) the activity of deactivated phase compared to its endogenously active D-lactate dehydrogenase 1 (DLD1).
 
 
 
 
 
   如申請專利範圍第1項所述之微生物，其中，該 Saccharomyces 屬微生物係釀酒酵母( Saccharomyces cerevisiase) 。
 The microorganism according to claim 1, wherein the  Saccharomyces  is a microorganism  Saccharomyces cerevisiase  . 
 
 
 
 
   一種製造乳酸之方法，其包含：(a)在培養基內培養如申請專利範圍第1至11項中任一項所述之 Saccharomyces 屬微生物；以及(b)從經培養的微生物或培養基回收乳酸。
 A method of producing lactic acid, comprising: (a) cultivating a microorganism of the genus  Saccharomyces  according to any one of claims 1 to 11 in a medium; and (b) recovering lactic acid from the cultured microorganism or medium. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
