
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A composition comprising:
 a fermentation product as an active ingredient, wherein the fermentation product comprises  Lactobacillus pentosus  var.  plantarum  C29 strain (deposit number: KCCM11291P) and is obtained by inoculating a specific substrate with  Lactobacillus pentosus  var.  plantarum  C29 strain (deposit number: KCCM11291P) and culturing it for 10 to 30 hours, 
 wherein the specific substrate is selected from the group consisting of soybean seeds and defatted soybean seeds. 
 
 
     
 2. The composition of  claim 1 , further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier selected from the group consisting of an excipient, a binding agent, a disintegrating agent, a lubricant, a preservative, an antioxidant, an isotonic agent, a buffer, a coating agent, a sweetening agent, a solubilizer, a base, a dispersion, a wetting agent, a suspending agent, a stabilizer, a colorant, and combinations thereof. 
 
     
 3. An injectable solution comprising the composition of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 4. The composition of  claim 1 , wherein the composition is in a form selected from the group consisting of tablets, capsules, granules, fine subtilae, powders, sublingual tablets, suppositories, ointments, injections, turbid liquids, suspensions, syrups, and sprays. 
 
     
 5. A food product comprising the composition of  claim 1 , wherein the food product is selected from the group consisting of candy, cracker, gum, ice cream, noodle, bread, and beverage. 
 
     
 6. A method of improving cognitive function or treating cognitive impairment comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the composition of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 7. A method of improving cognitive function or treating cognitive impairment comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the composition of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 8. A composition comprising:
 a fermentation product as an active ingredient, wherein the fermentation product comprises  Lactobacillus pentosus  var.  plantarum  C29 strain (deposit number: KCCM11291P) and is obtained by inoculating a specific substrate with  Lactobacillus pentosus  var.  plantarum  C29 strain, 
 wherein the specific substrate comprises defatted soybean powder. 
 
 
     
 9. The composition of  claim 8 , wherein the specific substrate is sterilized prior to inoculation with  Lactobacillus pentosus  var.  plantarum  C29 strain. 
 
     
 10. The composition of  claim 8 , wherein the specific substrate is sterilized by heating to a temperature of 100° C. or more for 15 minutes to 1 hour. 
 
     
 11. An injectable solution comprising the composition of  claim 8 . 
 
     
 12. The composition of  claim 8 , wherein the composition is in a form selected from the group consisting of tablets, capsules, granules, fine subtilae, powders, sublingual tablets, suppositories, ointments, injections, turbid liquids, suspensions, syrups, and sprays. 
 
     
 13. A food product comprising the composition of  claim 8 , wherein the food product is selected from the group consisting of candy, cracker, gum, ice cream, noodle, bread, and beverage. 
 
     
 14. The composition of  claim 8 , further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
