
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for promoting or increasing or improving plant growth and/or plant yield comprising:
 preparing a composition comprising a high-density aliquot of plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPB) KGS-2  Pseudomonas jessenii  strain deposited as IDAC:220318-01, said high-density aliquot comprising at least 1×10 3  colony forming units of PGPB KGS-2 per ml; 
 applying said composition to a soil environment in which seeds or seedlings have been or will be planted; 
 growing said seeds or seedlings into plants in said soil environment, said PGPB KGS-2 colonizing said soil environment and promoting growth of the plant; and harvesting said plants. 
 
 
     
 2. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the soil environment includes phosphorus as a fertilizer. 
 
     
 3. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the composition is applied to the soil environment as a coating on seeds. 
 
     
 4. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the PGPB KGS-2 is applied to the soil environment as a liquid suspension. 
 
     
 5. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the composition is applied as a liquid suspension on plants, on post emergent plants, on seeds, on seedlings, or on carrier materials. 
 
     
 6. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the plants show increased growth compared to similar plants grown in an untreated soil environment. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 1  wherein PGPB KGS-2 increases or improves growth of plants by increasing root growth, increasing shoot growth, improving or increasing plant tolerance to stresses such as soil salinity, drought, and hydrocarbon and/or heavy-metal toxicity, increasing soil phosphate bioavailability, increasing plant size during early growth, inhibiting fungal infection of the plant or by establishing an endophytic relationship with the plants. 
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the PGPB KGS-2 improves or increases plant growth by converting glucose to gluconate, thereby lowering local soil pH and enhancing bioavailability of phosphate present in the soil environment. 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the PGPB KGS-2 improves or increases plant growth by producing mannitol-2 dehydrogenase, thereby inhibiting fungal infections. 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the PGPB KGS-2 improves or increases plant growth by synthesizing indole-3-acetic acid. 
 
     
 11. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the PGPB KGS-2 improves or increases plant growth by degrading 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate. 
 
     
 12. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the PGPB KGS-2 improves or increases plant growth by modulating levels of auxin. 
 
     
 13. The method according to  claim 1  wherein the PGPB KGS-2 improves or increases growth by penetrating stems of a plant or embryo of a seed, thereby establishing an endophytic relationship. 
 
     
 14. A method for promoting or increasing or improving plant growth and/or plant yield comprising:
 preparing a composition comprising a high-density aliquot of plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPB) KGS-2  Pseudomonas jessenii  strain deposited as IDAC:220318-01, said high-density aliquot comprising at least 1×10 3  colony forming units of PGPB KGS-2 per ml; 
 applying said composition to seeds or seedlings that have been or will be planted in a soil environment, said KGS-2 penetrating said seeds or seedlings and establishing an endophytic relationship; 
 growing said seeds or seedlings into plants in said soil environment; and harvesting said plants. 
 
 
     
 15. The method according to  claim 14  wherein the composition is applied to seeds that will be planted. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
