
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. In a method of antibiotic therapy comprising administration of at least one antibiotic to a human subject, the improvement comprising orally administering to the subject a fermented food product comprising a mixture of Lactobacilli and fermented proteins,
 wherein the mixture of Lactobacilli comprises  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain deposited at the CNCM and a  Lactobacillus casei  strain, 
 wherein the fermented food product is administered prior to or for a total duration of the antibiotic therapy, and 
 wherein said method reduces at least one of incidence of antibiotic associated diarrhea (AAD), severity of AAD, or duration of AAD. 
 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1 , the method comprising administering the fermented food product for the duration of the antibiotic therapy. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1 , the method comprising administering the fermented food product at least once per day. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 1 , the method comprising administering at least 50 billion colony forming units (CFUs) of a population of living and active micro-organisms of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain per day. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 1 , the method comprising administering at least 100 billion colony forming units (CFUs) of a population of living and active micro-organisms of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain per day. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the subject is at home. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the subject is a hospitalized patient. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 7 , wherein the method reduces duration of hospitalization of the patient as compared to duration of another hospitalized patient receiving the same antibiotic therapy but not the fermented food product. 
 
     
 9. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the method reduces presence of blood in stools of the subject compared to another subject receiving the same antibiotic therapy but not the fermented food product. 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the method reduces average number of liquid stools in the subject compared to another subject receiving the same antibiotic therapy but not the fermented food product. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the fermented food product is a food supplement. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the fermented proteins comprise fermented milk proteins. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the fermented proteins comprise fermented soy proteins. 
 
     
 14. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the fermented food product is administered as a gel or a capsule. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the mixture of Lactobacilli consists essentially of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain deposited at the CNCM and a  Lactobacillus casei  strain. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the mixture of Lactobacilli consists of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain deposited at the CNCM and a  Lactobacillus casei  strain. 
 
     
 17. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the antibiotic associated diarrhea is caused by a  Clostridium difficile  infection. 
 
     
 18. A method of treating antibiotic associated diarrhea (AAD) comprising orally administering to a human a fermented food product comprising a mixture of Lactobacilli and fermented proteins,
 wherein the mixture of Lactobacilli comprises  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain deposited at the CNCM and a  Lactobacillus casei  strain, and 
 wherein said method reduces at least one of incidence of antibiotic associated diarrhea (AAD), severity of AAD, or duration of AAD. 
 
 
     
 19. The method of  claim 18 , wherein the fermented proteins comprise fermented soy proteins. 
 
     
 20. The method of  claim 18 , wherein the fermented food product is a food supplement. 
 
     
 21. The method of  claim 18 , wherein the fermented food product is administered as a gel or a capsule. 
 
     
 22. The method of  claim 21 , wherein the gel or the capsule comprises at least 50 billion colony forming units (CFUs) of a population of living and active micro-organisms of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain. 
 
     
 23. The method of  claim 21 , wherein the gel or the capsule comprises at least 100 billion colony forming units (CFUs) of a population of living and active micro-organisms of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain. 
 
     
 24. The method of  claim 18 , wherein the antibiotic associated diarrhea is caused by a  Clostridium difficile  infection. 
 
     
 25. The method of  claim 18 , wherein the method reduces at least one of incidence of AAD, severity of AAD, and duration of AAD. 
 
     
 26. The method of  claim 18 , wherein the mixture of Lactobacilli consists essentially of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain deposited at the CNCM and a  Lactobacillus casei  strain. 
 
     
 27. The method of  claim 18 , wherein the mixture of Lactobacilli consists of the  Lactobacillus acidophilus  I-1492 strain deposited at the CNCM and a  Lactobacillus casei  strain. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
