
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  with enhanced ability to produce L-arginine, which is transformed to have an enhanced activity of aspartate ammonia-lyase and aspartate aminotransferase, wherein the aspartate aminotransferase is derived from a microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium;  
 wherein said enhanced activity is obtained by a method selected from: 
 a) increasing the copy number of a nucleotide sequence encoding aspartate ammonia-lyase and aspartate aminotransferase in said microorganism; or 
 b) replacing the promoter with a strong promoter in said microorganism. 
 
 
     
 2. The microorganism of  claim 1 , wherein the aspartate ammonia-lyase is derived from a microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  or a microorganism of the genus  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 3. The microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein the aspartate ammonia-lyase has an amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 21 or 22. 
 
     
 4. The microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein the aspartate aminotransferase has an amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 25. 
 
     
 5. The microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  is  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 
     
 6. A method for producing L-arginine, comprising the steps of:
 culturing the microorganism of  claim 1  in a culture medium; and 
 recovering L-arginine from the culture medium. 
 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 6 , wherein the aspartate ammonia-lyase is derived from a microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  or a microorganism of the genus  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the aspartate ammonia-lyase has an amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 21 or 22. 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the aspartate aminotransferase has an amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 25. 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  is  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 
     
 11. The microorganism of  claim 1 , wherein the method of increasing the copy number of a nucleotide sequence is performed by transformation with vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding aspartate ammonia-lyase and aspartate aminotransferase. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
