
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for treating a tumor characterized by elevated expression of a Frizzled7 receptor in a subject, said method comprising the step of administering a therapeutically effective dose of an isolated antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof that binds to a Frizzled7 receptor, wherein the antibody binds to the cytoplasmic portion of said receptor and wherein the antibody has complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of the antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line 288-1 deposited in the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Va., USA, under the Registration Number PTA-123746; or the antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line 288-5 deposited in the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Va., USA, under the Registration Number PTA-123744. 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the isolated antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof is coupled to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the isolated antibody is recombinant antibody. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 3 , wherein the isolated antibody is a single chain antibody, Fab, Fv, diabody or triabody. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 1 , wherein said antibody is humanized, chimeric or chimeric/humanized. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein said tumor is Wilm's tumor. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 1 , wherein said tumor is comprised of melanoma cells. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the method further comprises the step of administering a chemotherapy antibody. 
 
     
 9. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the method comprises the step of administering a second antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof. 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the isolated antibody is a whole antibody. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the isolated antibody is IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the isolated antibody induces antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
