
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A putrescine-producing microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium , wherein NADPH (reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate) productivity is increased, as compared with a non-modified microorganism, by enhancing an activity of NADP-dependent glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. 
 
     
 2. The putrescine-producing microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  of  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism has (1) further enhancement of activities of one or more from the group consisting of transketolase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, NAD(P) transhydrogenase, nicotinate phosphoribosyltransferase, and NAD+ kinase, (2) further inactivation of activities of one or more from the group consisting of gluconate kinase and NAD+ diphosphatase, or (3) a further combination of (1) and (2), thereby showing increased NADPH productivity, as compared with a non-modified microorganism. 
 
     
 3. The putrescine-producing microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  of  claim 1 , wherein activity of ornithine decarboxylase is further introduced. 
 
     
 4. The putrescine-producing microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  of  claim 1 , wherein activity of putrescine acetyltransferase is further attenuated. 
 
     
 5. The putrescine-producing microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  of  claim 1 , wherein activity of putrescine export protein is further enhanced. 
 
     
 6. The putrescine-producing microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium  of  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism is  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 
     
 7. A method of producing putrescine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (i) culturing the putrescine-producing microorganism of  claim 1  in a medium; and 
 (ii) collecting putrescine from the cultured microorganism or medium. 
 
 
     
 8. A method of producing putrescine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (i) culturing the putrescine-producing microorganism of  claim 2  in a medium; and 
 (ii) collecting putrescine from the cultured microorganism or medium. 
 
 
     
 9. A method of producing putrescine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (i) culturing the putrescine-producing microorganism of  claim 3  in a medium; and 
 (ii) collecting putrescine from the cultured microorganism or medium. 
 
 
     
 10. A method of producing putrescine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (i) culturing the putrescine-producing microorganism of  claim 4  in a medium; and 
 (ii) collecting putrescine from the cultured microorganism or medium. 
 
 
     
 11. A method of producing putrescine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (i) culturing the putrescine-producing microorganism of  claim 5  in a medium; and 
 (ii) collecting putrescine from the cultured microorganism or medium. 
 
 
     
 12. A method of producing putrescine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (i) culturing the putrescine-producing microorganism of  claim 6  in a medium; and 
 (ii) collecting putrescine from the cultured microorganism or medium. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
