
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 
   
 1. A hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, wherein a representative sample of plant tissue of said variety was deposited under NCMA Accession number 202303015. 
 
     
 2. A tissue or cell culture produced from the plant of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 3. A method of developing a hydrangea plant variety having the physiological and morphological characteristics of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, wherein a representative sample of plant tissue of said variety was deposited under NCMA Accession number 202303015, said method comprising:
 genotyping a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, wherein said genotyping includes obtaining a sample of nucleic acids from the plant and detecting in the nucleic acids a plurality of polymorphisms, and using the identified polymorphisms for marker-assisted selection in a breeding program. 
 
 
     
 4. A method for developing a hydrangea plant variety comprising one or more of:
 a) identifying and selecting a spontaneous mutation of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ or a part thereof, and cultivating the selected spontaneous mutation plant or plant part; 
 b) introducing a mutation into the genome of a plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ or a part thereof, and cultivating said mutated plant or plant part; or 
 c) transforming a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ with a transgene; 
 wherein a representative sample of plant tissue of the variety ‘SMNHPH’ was deposited under NCMA Accession number 202303015. 
 
 
     
 5. A hydrangea plant produced by cultivating the selected spontaneous mutation plant or plant part of  claim 4 , wherein said hydrangea plant has all the morphological and physiological characteristics of the hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’. 
 
     
 6. A hydrangea plant produced by cultivating said mutated plant or plant part of  claim 4 . 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 4 , wherein the mutation is introduced using a method selected from the group consisting of: temperature, long-term seed storage, tissue culture conditions, ionizing radiation, chemical mutagens, target induced local lesions in genomes, zinc finger nuclease mediated mutagenesis, CRISPR/Cas9, meganucleases, and gene editing. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 4 , wherein the transgene confers resistance to a herbicide, insects, or disease. 
 
     
 9. A method of producing an F1 seed or embryo, wherein the method comprises crossing a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’ with a second plant and harvesting the resultant F1 seed or embryo,
 wherein a representative sample of plant tissue of the variety ‘SMNHPH’ was deposited under NCMA Accession number 202303015. 
 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the second plant includes another plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the second plant is a plant of a different variety from the variety ‘SMNHPH’. 
 
     
 12. A method of producing an F1 seed or an F1 embryo, the method comprising:
 providing a hydrangea plant having one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, wherein a representative sample of plant tissue of the variety ‘SMNHPH’ was deposited under NCMA Accession number 202303015; and 
 crossing the hydrangea plant with a second plant and harvesting the resultant F1 seed or embryo, wherein the one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant include at least one of orange fall color, a flower panicle density score greater than 85, and flowers that age to a rich, deep pink. 
 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 12  wherein the one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant include a flower panicle density that is greater than 90. 
 
     
 14. A hydrangea plant variety comprising:
 one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of a hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH’, wherein a representative sample of plant tissue of the variety ‘SMNHPH’ was deposited under NCMA Accession number 202303015, wherein the one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant include at least one of orange fall color, a flower panicle density score greater than 85, and flowers that age to a rich, deep pink. 
 
 
     
 15. The hydrangea plant variety of  claim 14  wherein the one or more physiological and morphological characteristics of the hydrangea plant include a flower panicle density that is greater than 90. 
 
     
 16. The tissue or cell culture of  claim 2 , comprising tissues or cells from the hydrangea plant of variety ‘SMNHPH selected from the group consisting of leaves, somatic embryos, cotyledons, ovules, protoplasts, callus, petiole, hypocotyl, meristematic cells, roots, root tips, pistils, anther walls, flower petals and stems. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
