
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A  Synechococcus elongatus  strain comprising a phaA gene encoding a β-ketothiolase, a phaB gene encoding an acetoacetyl-CoA reductase, and a phaC gene encoding a polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) synthase,
 wherein the  Synechococcus elongatus  strain is  Synechococcus  2973-phaCAB deposited under accession number KCTC14421BP. 
 
 
     
 2. The  Synechococcus elongatus  strain according to  claim 1 , wherein the gene phaA encoding a β-ketothiolase comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
     
 3. The  Synechococcus elongatus  strain according to  claim 1 , wherein the gene phaB encoding an acetoacetyl-COA reductase comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 
     
 4. The  Synechococcus elongatus  strain according to  claim 1 , wherein the gene phaC encoding a PHB synthase comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3. 
 
     
 5. A method for producing polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) comprising culturing the  Synechococcus elongatus  strain according to  claim 1 . 
 
     
 6. The method according to  claim 5 , wherein the culturing is performed under photoautotrophic conditions in which carbon dioxide or flue gas is supplied as a carbon source. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the concentration of the carbon dioxide is 4 to 6% (v/v). 
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the culturing is performed at a light intensity of 10 to 600 μE m −2 s −1 . 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the culturing is performed at a temperature of 36 to 40° C. 
 
     
 10. A method for producing polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) comprising culturing the  Synechococcus elongatus  strain according to  claim 2 . 
 
     
 11. A method for producing polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) comprising culturing the  Synechococcus elongatus  strain according to  claim 3 . 
 
     
 12. A method for producing polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) comprising culturing the  Synechococcus elongatus  strain according to  claim 4 . 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
