
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A nucleic acid molecule comprising a variant inc coding strand that comprises SEQ ID NO: 15, wherein:
 the variant inc coding strand encodes a variant inc RNA; and 
 the variant inc RNA is a regulator of plasmid copy number. 
 
 
     
 2. The nucleic acid molecule according to  claim 1 , wherein expression of the variant inc RNA increases copy number of a vector relative to expression of wild-type inc RNA encoded by an inc sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 19. 
 
     
 3. The nucleic acid molecule according to  claim 1 , wherein the variant inc coding strand comprises a nucleotide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO: 17. 
 
     
 4. A replicon comprising the nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1 , a promoter, and an origin of replication, wherein:
 the promoter is operably linked to the variant inc coding strand; and 
 the variant inc RNA regulates copy number of the replicon. 
 
 
     
 5. The replicon according to  claim 4 , wherein the replicon comprises a variant repFIC replicon, and the nucleic acid molecule is part of the variant repFIC replicon. 
 
     
 6. A vector comprising the replicon of  claim 4 . 
 
     
 7. The vector according to  claim 6 , wherein expression of the variant inc RNA increases copy number of the vector relative to expression of wild-type inc RNA encoded by an inc sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 19. 
 
     
 8. The vector according to  claim 6 , wherein the vector comprises a plasmid. 
 
     
 9. The vector according to  claim 6 , further comprising a target gene for making a target product. 
 
     
 10. The vector according to  claim 9 , wherein the target product comprises one or more of (i) a target RNA, (ii) a target protein, (iii) a target biomaterial, (iv) a target polymer, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (v) a target sweetener, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (vi) a target oil, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (vii) a target fat, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (viii) a target polysaccharide, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (ix) a target amino acid, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (x) a target nucleotide, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (xi) a target vaccine, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, or (xii) a target pharmaceutical product, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof. 
 
     
 11. A recombinant microorganism comprising the replicon of  claim 4 . 
 
     
 12. A recombinant microorganism comprising the vector of  claim 6 . 
 
     
 13. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 12 , wherein expression of the variant inc RNA in the recombinant microorganism increases copy number of the vector relative to expression of wild-type inc RNA encoded by an inc sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 19 in a control microorganism. 
 
     
 14. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 12 , wherein the variant inc coding strand comprises a nucleotide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO: 17. 
 
     
 15. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 12 , wherein the recombinant microorganism was prepared by introducing the vector into a precursor microorganism by one or more of transformation, conjugation, or transduction. 
 
     
 16. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 12 , wherein the recombinant microorganism was prepared from one or more of a bacterium of the genus  Escherichia  or a bacterium of the species  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 17. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 12 , wherein the recombinant microorganism further comprises another nucleic acid molecule comprising a variant rpoC RNA-polymerase β′ subunit protein coding sequence (variant rpoC coding sequence), wherein:
 the variant rpoC coding sequence encodes a variant RpoC RNA-polymerase β′ subunit protein (variant RpoC); and 
 the variant RpoC comprises an R47C substitution, with numbering of the R47C substitution defined based on wild-type RpoC RNA-polymerase β′ subunit protein (wild-type RpoC) of  Escherichia coli  of SEQ ID NO: 44. 
 
 
     
 18. A method for regulating copy number of the vector of  claim 6  in a recombinant microorganism, the method comprising the steps of:
 (1) introducing the vector into a precursor microorganism, thereby obtaining the recombinant microorganism; and 
 (2) cultivating the recombinant microorganism in a culture medium under conditions sufficient for replication of the vector, thereby regulating copy number of the vector. 
 
 
     
 19. The method according to  claim 18 , wherein expression of the variant inc RNA in the recombinant microorganism increases copy number of the vector relative to expression of wild-type inc RNA encoded by an inc sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 19 in a control microorganism. 
 
     
 20. A method for making a target product by use of the vector of  claim 7  in a recombinant microorganism, wherein the vector further comprises a target gene for making the target product, the method comprising the steps of:
 (1) introducing the vector into a precursor microorganism, thereby obtaining the recombinant microorganism; 
 (2) cultivating the recombinant microorganism in a culture medium under conditions under which the recombinant microorganism expresses the target gene, thereby making the target product; and 
 (3) recovering the target product from the recombinant microorganism and/or the culture medium. 
 
 
     
 21. The method according to  claim 20 , wherein expression of the variant inc RNA in the recombinant microorganism increases copy number of the vector relative to expression of wild-type inc RNA encoded by an inc sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 19 in a control microorganism. 
 
     
 22. The method according to  claim 20 , wherein the variant inc coding strand comprises a nucleotide sequence that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO: 17. 
 
     
 23. The method according to  claim 20 , wherein the target product comprises one or more of (i) a target RNA, (ii) a target protein, (iii) a target biomaterial, (iv) a target polymer, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (v) a target sweetener, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (vi) a target oil, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (vii) a target fat, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (viii) a target polysaccharide, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (ix) a target amino acid, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (x) a target nucleotide, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (xi) a target vaccine, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, or (xii) a target pharmaceutical product, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof. 
 
     
 24. The method according to  claim 18 , wherein: the recombinant microorganism further comprises another nucleic acid molecule comprising a variant rpoC coding sequence; the variant rpoC coding sequence encodes a variant RpoC; and the variant RpoC comprises an R47C substitution, with numbering of the R47C substitution defined based on wild-type RpoC of Escherichia coli of SEQ ID NO: 44. 
 
     
 25. The method according to  claim 20 , wherein: the recombinant microorganism further comprises another nucleic acid molecule comprising a variant rpoC coding sequence; the variant rpoC coding sequence encodes a variant RpoC; and the variant RpoC comprises an R47C substitution, with numbering of the R47C substitution defined based on wild-type RpoC of  Escherichia coli  of SEQ ID NO: 44. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
