
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A polypeptide having O-succinyl homoserine transferase activity, the polypeptide comprising substitution of leucine at the position corresponding to amino acid 313 of SEQ ID NO: 1 with arginine, cysteine, isoleucine, or lysine, wherein the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide has at least 80% sequence identity to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
     
 2. The polypeptide having O-succinyl homoserine transferase activity of  claim 1 , wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 59, SEQ ID NO: 67, SEQ ID NO: 75, and SEQ ID NO: 81. 
 
     
 3. A polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide having O-succinyl homoserine transferase activity of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 4. The polynucleotide of  claim 3 , wherein the nucleotide sequence is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 60, SEQ ID NO: 68, SEQ ID NO: 76, and SEQ ID NO: 82. 
 
     
 5. An O-succinyl homoserine-producing microorganism of the genus  Corynebacterium , wherein the microorganism comprises the polypeptide having O-succinyl homoserine transferase activity of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 6. The O-succinyl homoserine-producing microorganism of  claim 5 , wherein the microorganism overexpresesses an aspartokinase. 
 
     
 7. The O-succinyl homoserine-producing microorganism of  claim 5 , wherein the microorganism is  Corynebacterium glutamicum.    
 
     
 8. The O-succinyl homoserine-producing microorganism of  claim 5 , wherein one or more genes encoding cystathionine synthase, O-acetyl homoserine (thiol)-lyase, and homoserine kinase is inactivated. 
 
     
 9. The O-succinyl homoserine-producing microorganism of  claim 5 , wherein the microorganism overexpresesses an aspartokinase, and one or more genes encoding cystathionine synthase, O-acetyl homoserine (thiol)-lyase, and homoserine kinase is inactivated. 
 
     
 10. A method of producing O-succinyl homoserine, the method comprising the steps of:
 culturing the O-succinyl homoserine-producing microorganism of  claim 5  in a medium to produce O-succinyl homoserine; and 
 isolating or collecting the O-succinyl homoserine from the microorganism or the medium. 
 
 
     
 11. A method of producing L-methionine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) culturing the O-succinyl homoserine-producing microorganism of  claim 5  in a medium to produce O-succinyl homoserine; and 
 (b) reacting the O-succinyl homoserine with sulfide to produce L-methionine. 
 
 
     
 12. The method of producing L-methionine of  claim 11 , further comprising the step of isolating or collecting the O-succinyl homoserine from the microorganism or the medium. 
 
     
 13. The method of producing L-methionine of  claim 11 , further comprising the step of isolating or collecting the L-methionine. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
