
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A method of treating endometrial cancer comprising administering to a human patient with endometrial cancer an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) sacituzumab govitecan wherein the ADC is administered at a dosage of between 6 mg/kg and 12 mg/kg. 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the treatment results in a reduction in tumor size of at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, or at least 40%. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the endometrial cancer is metastatic and the method further comprises reducing in size or eliminating the metastases. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the ADC dosage is administered to the human subject once or twice a week on a schedule with a cycle selected from the group consisting of: (i) weekly; (ii) every other week; (iii) one week of therapy followed by two, three or four weeks off; (iv) two weeks of therapy followed by one, two, three or four weeks off; (v) three weeks of therapy followed by one, two, three, four or five weeks off; (vi) four weeks of therapy followed by one, two, three, four or five weeks off; (vii) five weeks of therapy followed by one, two, three, four or five weeks off; and (viii) monthly. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 4 , wherein the cycle is repeated 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16 or 20 times. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the ADC is administered in combination with one or more therapeutic modalities selected from the group consisting of unconjugated antibodies, radiolabeled antibodies, drug-conjugated antibodies, toxin-conjugated antibodies, gene therapy, chemotherapy, therapeutic peptides, cytokine therapy, oligonucleotides, localized radiation therapy, surgery and interference RNA therapy. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 6 , wherein the ADC is administered simultaneously with the one or more therapeutic modalities. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 6 , wherein the ADC is administered sequentially with the one or more therapeutic modalities. 
 
     
 9. The method of  claim 6 , wherein the unconjugated antibody is a checkpoint inhibitor antibody. 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the checkpoint inhibitor antibody is selected from the group consisting of pembrolizumab, nivolumab, pidilizumab, durvalumab (MEDI4736), atexolizumab (MPDL3280A), tremelimumab and ipilimumab. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 6 , wherein the chemotherapy is performed with a therapeutic agent selected from the group consisting of 5-fluorouracil, afatinib, aplidin, azaribine, anastrozole, anthracyclines, axitinib, AVL-101, AVL-291, bendamustine, bleomycin, bortezomib, bosutinib, bryostatin-1, busulfan, calicheamycin, camptothecin, carboplatin, 10-hydroxycamptothecin, carmustine, celecoxib, chlorambucil, cisplatin, Cox-2 inhibitors, irinotecan (CPT-11), SN-38, carboplatin, cladribine, camptothecans, cyclophosphamide, crizotinib, cytarabine, dacarbazine, dasatinib, dinaciclib, docetaxel, dactinomycin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, 2-pyrrolinodoxorubicin (2P-DOX), cyano-morpholino doxorubicin, doxorubicin glucuronide, epirubicin glucuronide, erlotinib, estramustine, epipodophyllotoxin, erlotinib, entinostat, estrogen receptor binding agents, etoposide (VP16), etoposide glucuronide, etoposide phosphate, exemestane, fingolimod, flavopiridol, floxuridine (FUdR), 3′,5′-O-dioleoyl-FudR (FUdR-dO), fludarabine, flutamide, farnesyl-protein transferase inhibitors, fostamatinib, ganetespib, GDC-0834, GS-1101, gefitinib, gemcitabine, hydroxyurea, ibrutinib, idarubicin, idelalisib, ifosfamide, imatinib, L-asparaginase, lapatinib, lenolidamide, leucovorin, LFM-A13, lomustine, mechlorethamine, melphalan, mercaptopurine, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, mithramycin, mitomycin, mitotane, navelbine, neratinib, nilotinib, nitrosurea, olaparib, plicomycin, procarbazine, paclitaxel, PCI-32765, pentostatin, PSI-341, raloxifene, semustine, sorafenib, streptozocin, SU11248, sunitinib, tamoxifen, temazolomide, transplatinum, thalidomide, thioguanine, thiotepa, teniposide, topotecan, uracil mustard, vatalanib, vinorelbine, vinblastine, vincristine, vinca alkaloids and ZD1839. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the patient has previously failed therapy with at least one anti-cancer treatment. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 12 , wherein the patient has previously failed therapy with irinotecan or topotecan. 
 
     
 14. The method of  claim 12 , wherein the patient has previously failed therapy with a chemotherapeutic agent. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the ADC is administered at a dosage of between 8 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
