
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A kit for determining the presence of metapneumovirus (MPV) in a mammalian subject, the kit comprising:
 a DNA probe of at least 10 nucleotides that hybridizes to a target polynucleotide under stringent conditions, 
 wherein the target polynucleotide comprises a sequence encoding a polypeptide that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:28, SEQ ID NO:32, or SEQ ID NO:39, or the complement of the sequence of the sequence encoding the polypeptide, and 
 wherein the DNA probe does not y hybridize to a polynucleotide from avian pneumovirus (APV) under stringent conditions. 
 
 
     
 2. The kit of  claim 1 , wherein the DNA probe comprises at least 25 nucleotides. 
 
     
 3. The kit of  claim 1 , wherein the DNA probe comprises at least 40 nucleotides. 
 
     
 4. The kit of  claim 1 , wherein the DNA probe further comprises detectable marker. 
 
     
 5. The kit of  claim 1 , wherein the target polynucleotide comprises a nucleic acid encoding SEQ ID NO:28, SEQ ID NO:32, or SEQ ID NO:39. 
 
     
 6. A method for detecting a human metapneumovirus infection in a mammal, the method comprising:
 detecting, in a sample from the mammal, the presence of a component of human metapneumovirus by reacting the sample with a DNA probe of at least 10 nucleotides in length that hybridizes to a target polynucleotide under stringent conditions, 
 wherein the target polynucleotide comprises a sequence encoding a polypeptide that is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:28, SEQ ID NO:32, or SEQ ID NO:39 or the complement of the sequence encoding the polypeptide, and 
 wherein the DNA probe does not hybridize to a polynucleotide from avian pneumovirus (APV) under stringent conditions. 
 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the DNA probe is at least 18 nucleotides in length. 
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the DNA probe is at least 25 nucleotides in length. 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 6 , further comprising:
 allowing the formation of a complex comprising the DNA probe and the target polynucleotide, and 
 detecting the complex. 
 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 6 , further comprising
 performing a nucleic acid amplification reaction on a sample derived from the mammalian subject utilizing a set of primers for the amplification of at least a portion of the L gene of human metapneumovirus to create an amplified product. 
 
 
     
 11. The method according to  claim 10 , wherein the nucleic acid amplification reaction is selected from the group consisting of PCR, RAP, and RT-PCR. 
 
     
 12. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the DNA probe comprises a label. 
 
     
 13. The method according to  claim 9 , wherein detecting the complex comprises detecting the label. 
 
     
 14. A method for classifying a virus as a human metapneumovirus, the method comprising:
 detecting, in a sample comprising the virus, the presence of a component of human metapneumovirus by reacting the sample with a DNA probe of at least 10 nucleotides in length that hybridizes to a target polynucleotide under stringent conditions, and 
 classifying the sample as containing human metapneumovirus; 
 wherein the target polynucleotide comprises a sequence encoding a polypeptide that is at least 77% identical to a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:28, SEQ ID NO:32, or SEQ ID NO:39 or the complement of the sequence encoding the polypeptide. 
 
 
     
 15. The method according to  claim 14 , wherein the DNA probe does not hybridize to a polynucleotide from avian pneumovirus (APV) under stringent conditions. 
 
     
 16. The method according to  claim 6 , the method further comprising:
 diagnosing the mammal as infected with human metapneumovirus based on the hybridization of the probe to the target polynucleotide. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
