
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A  Triticum aestivum  wheat plant comprising:
 (a) multiple  Triticum  Imi nucleic acids from different genomes,
 (i) a first of the multiple Imi nucleic acids being a B-genome Imi2 nucleic acid which, as a result of random mutagenesis, encodes an IMI2 polypeptide having a serine to asparagine substitution in Domain E as compared to a wild-type AHAS polypeptide, wherein the Imi2 nucleic acid encodes the IMI2 polypeptide of one of:
 (a) a plant of line Madsen M1, a representative sample of seed of the line having been deposited with ATCC under Patent Deposit Designation Number PTA-4255, wherein the IMI2 polypeptide of the plant of the line Madsen M1 comprises the serine to asparagine substitution in Domain E; or 
 (b) a plant of line Gunner 208, a representative sample of seed of the line having been deposited with ATCC under Patent Deposit Designation Number PTA-4214, wherein the plant of the line Gunner 208 comprises the serine to asparagine substitution in Domain E, and 
 
 (ii) a second of the multiple Imi nucleic acids being a D-genome Imi1 nucleic acid which, as a result of random mutagenesis, encodes an Imi1 polypeptide having a serine to asparagine substitution in Domain E as compared to a wild-type AHAS polypeptide, 
 wherein the Imi1 nucleic acid encodes the Imi1 polypeptide of one of:
 (I) a plant of line Gunner 205, a representative sample of seed of the line having been deposited with ATCC under Patent Deposit Designation Number PTA-4213, wherein the Imi1 polypeptide of the plant of line Gunner 205 comprises the serine to asparagine substitution in Domain E; or 
 (I) a plant of line FS-4, wherein the Imi1 polypeptide of the plant of the line FS-4 comprises the serine to asparagine substitution in Domain E; and 
 
 
 (b) a phenotype of increased tolerance to an AHAS inhibitor herbicide relative to that of a wild-type variety of the plant, 
 wherein said phenotype comprises (A) tolerance to 80 g a.i./ha imidazolinone herbicide, and (B) phytotoxicity less than 3.3 of 9 when the plant is treated with 40 g a.i./ha imazamox herbicide. 
 
 
     
 2. The wheat plant of  claim 1 , wherein the wheat plant is a non-transgenic, non-genetically engineered wheat plant. 
 
     
 3. The wheat plant of  claim 1 , wherein the wheat plant is winter wheat plant. 
 
     
 4. The wheat plant of  claim 3 , wherein the winter wheat plant is a derivative of a plant of line Madsen M1 a representative sample of seed of said plant having been deposited in the American Type Culture Collection under Accession No. PTA-4255. 
 
     
 5. A plant part, cell, or seed of the plant of  claim 1 , wherein said plant part, cell, or seed comprises said multiple Imi nucleic acids. 
 
     
 6. The seed of  claim 5 , wherein said seed further comprises a seed treatment. 
 
     
 7. The seed of  claim 6 , wherein the seed treatment comprises an AHAS-inhibiting herbicide. 
 
     
 8. The seed of  claim 7 , wherein the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide comprises an imidazolinone herbicide. 
 
     
 9. The seed of  claim 8 , wherein the imidazolinone herbicide comprises at least one of:
 imazapyr, imazethapyr, imazapic, imazamox, imazaquin, or imazethabenz. 
 
 
     
 10. A method for controlling weeds within the vicinity of a wheat plant, comprising:
 (a) providing the treated seed of  claim 6 ; and 
 (b) growing a wheat plant from said seed; 
 thereby controlling the weeds in the vicinity thereof. 
 
 
     
 11. A method for controlling weeds within the vicinity of a wheat plant, comprising:
 (a) growing, the wheat plant of  claim 1 ; and 
 (b) contacting said plant and weeds in the vicinity thereof with an effective amount of an AHAS-inhibiting herbicide to which the plant is tolerant; 
 thereby controlling the weeds. 
 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 11 , wherein said AHAS-inhibiting herbicide comprises an imidazolinone herbicide. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 12 , wherein said imidazolinone herbicide comprises at least one of: imazapyr, imazethapyr, imazapic, imazamox, imazaquin, or imazethabenz. 
 
     
 14. A method for identifying the presence of an Imi2 nucleic acid in a plant, plant part, cell or seed thereof, comprising:
 (a) providing a plant, plant part, cell, or seed of  claim 5 ; 
 (b) extracting nucleic acid material from said plant, plant part, cell, or seed; 
 (c) assaying the extracted nucleic acid material for the presence of the Imi2 nucleic acid. 
 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 14 , wherein said assaying step (c) comprises a probe directed to said Imi2 nucleic acid. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 11 , wherein the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide comprises at least one of other herbicides, detergents, adjuvants, spreading agents, sticking agents or stabilizing agents. 
 
     
 17. The method of  claim 11 , wherein the AHAS-inhibiting herbicide is a flowable powder, an emulsifiable concentrate or a liquid concentrate. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
