
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for killing or inhibiting the growth of a Gram positive bacterium while preventing desiccation of a wound, comprising:
 preparing by:
 grinding a sample consisting of dried leaves of a  Eruca sativa  plant, 
 macerating the ground leaves of the  Eruca sativa  plant with an extractant consisting of water to extract the leaves of the  Eruca sativa  plant for a period of days at a temperature of about 25° C. to extract water-soluble components from the leaves of the  Eruca sativa  plant then filtering to form a first extract, 
 concentrating the first extract under vacuum to produce the aqueous  Eruca sativa  extract in the form of a thick concentrated extract liquid, then 
 dispensing an aqueous composition comprising the thick concentrated extract liquid from a dispenser in the form of a foam, 
 
 contacting the Gram positive bacterium with the foam to inhibit the growth of the Gram positive bacterium while preventing desiccation of the wound, wherein the aqueous composition inhibits the growth or kills  Cellulomonas  strain B22. 
 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1  that is a method for killing Gram-positive bacteria. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1  that is a method that inhibits growth of the Gram positive bacteria while preventing desiccation of a wound, wherein said contacting the Gram positive bacterium with the foam to inhibits the growth of the Gram positive bacterium occurs while preventing desiccation of the wound. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the composition is formulated as a bandage, hydrogel patch, compress, or dressing. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the wound comprises a puncture, laceration, abrasion, or bite. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the wound comprises a burn. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 1 , wherein said composition comprises no more than 0.5 wt. % of the aqueous extract as measured after removal of water. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
