
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A manufacturing method for ergothioneine, comprising the steps of:
 culturing an ergothioneine-producing bacterium of  Methylobacterium aquaticum  and/or a budding yeast selected from  Rhodotorula mucilaginosa  and  Cryptococcus flavescens  in a medium comprising a carbon source to produce ergothioneine; and 
 collecting the produced ergothioneine from the resulting culture. 
 
 
     
 2. The manufacturing method for ergothioneine according to  claim 1 , wherein said medium comprising methanol, methylamine, and/or glycerol as the carbon source, to produce ergothioneine. 
 
     
 3. The manufacturing method according to  claim 1 , wherein the budding yeast is  Cryptococcus flavescens.    
 
     
 4. The manufacturing method according to  claim 1 , wherein the medium comprises the carbon source with a concentration of from 0.1% to 5%. 
 
     
 5. The manufacturing method according to  claim 1 , wherein the medium further comprises an ammonium salt at with a concentration of from 0.2 g/L to 2.0 g/L. 
 
     
 6. The manufacturing method according to  claim 1 , wherein the medium comprises ammonium chloride or ammonium dihydrogen phosphate as an ammonium salt. 
 
     
 7. A manufacturing method for ergothioneine, comprising the the steps of:
 culturing an ergothioneine-producing bacterium of  Methylobacterium aquaticum  and/or a budding yeast selected from  Rhodotorula mucilaginosa  and  Cryptococcus flavescens  in a medium comprising a carbon source, to produce ergothioneine; and 
 subjecting the cultured bacterium and/or budding yeast to heat treatment to extract the produced ergothioneine therefrom; and 
 collecting the extracted ergothioneine from the resultant. 
 
 
     
 8. The manufacturing method for ergothioneine according to  claim 1 , wherein the bacterium is a bacterium selected from those of the  Methylobacterium aquaticum  respectively deposited under the accession numbers NITE BP-02088, NITE BP-02089, and NITE BP-02090. 
 
     
 9. The manufacturing method for ergothioneine according to  claim 1 , wherein the budding yeast is a yeast selected from budding yeasts of the  Rhodotorula mucilaginosa  respectively deposited under the accession numbers NITE BP-02171 and NITE BP-02172. 
 
     
 10. The manufacturing method according to  claim 1 , wherein the budding yeast is an imperfect yeast. 
 
     
 11. The manufacturing method according to  claim 7 , wherein the medium further comprises an ammonium salt with a concentration of from 0.2 g/L to 2.0 g/L. 
 
     
 12. The manufacturing method according to  claim 7 , wherein the medium comprises ammonium chloride or ammonium dihydrogen phosphate as an ammonium salt. 
 
     
 13. The manufacturing method according to  claim 7 , wherein the medium comprises the carbon source with a concentration of from 0.1% to 5%. 
 
     
 14. A manufacturing method for ergothioneine, comprising the steps of:
 culturing an ergothioneine-producing bacterium selected from those of the  Methylobacterium aquaticum  respectively deposited under the accession numbers NITE BP-02088, NITE BP-02089, and NITE BP-02090 or a yeast selected from budding yeast of the  Rhodotorula mucilaginosa , respectively deposited with under the accession numbers NITE BP-02171 and NITE BP-02172 in a medium comprising a carbon source, to produce ergothioneine; and 
 collecting the produced ergothioneine from the resulting culture. 
 
 
     
 15. The manufacturing method according to  claim 14 , wherein the medium comprises the carbon source with a concentration of from 0.1% to 5%. 
 
     
 16. The manufacturing method according to  claim 14 , wherein the medium further comprises an ammonium salt with a concentration of from 0.2 g/L to 2.0 g/L. 
 
     
 17. The manufacturing method according to  claim 14 , wherein the medium comprises ammonium chloride or ammonium dihydrogen phosphate as an ammonium salt. 
 
     
 18. The manufacturing method for ergothioneine according to  claim 1 , wherein the budding yeast is the  Rhodotorula mucilaginosa.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
