
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A nucleic acid molecule comprising a variant rpoC RNA-polymerase β subunit protein coding sequence (variant rpoC coding sequence), wherein:
 the variant rpoC coding sequence encodes a variant RpoC RNA-polymerase β subunit protein (variant RpoC); and 
 the variant RpoC comprises an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:27 and has cysteine at the position corresponding to the 47 th  amino acid of a wild-type RpoC RNA-polymerase β subunit protein (wild-type RpoC) of  Escherichia coli  comprising SEQ ID NO:26. 
 
 
     
 2. The nucleic acid molecule according to  claim 1 , wherein expression of the variant RpoC in a host cell comprising a plasmid decreases the copy number of the plasmid relative to expression of the wild-type RpoC comprising_SEQ ID NO: 26 in a control host cell. 
 
     
 3. The nucleic acid molecule according to  claim 1 , wherein the variant RpoC comprises:
 (1) an N-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 28; 
 (2) a central domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 29; and 
 (3) a C-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 30. 
 
 
     
 4. The nucleic acid molecule according to  claim 1 , wherein the variant RpoC comprises:
 (1) an N-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 31; 
 (2) a central domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 32; and 
 (3) a C-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 33. 
 
 
     
 5. The nucleic acid molecule according to  claim 1 , wherein the variant RpoC comprises SEQ ID NO: 27. 
 
     
 6. A vector comprising the nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 7. A recombinant microorganism comprising the nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 8. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 7 , wherein expression of the variant RpoC in the recombinant microorganism decreases the copy number of a plasmid in the recombinant microorganism relative to expression of the wild-type RpoC comprising_SEQ ID NO: 26 in a control microorganism. 
 
     
 9. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 7 , wherein the variant RpoC comprises:
 (1) an N-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 28; 
 (2) a central domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 29; and 
 (3) a C-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 30. 
 
 
     
 10. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 7 , wherein the variant RpoC comprises SEQ ID NO: 27. 
 
     
 11. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 7 , wherein:
 the recombinant microorganism was prepared by introducing an rpoC coding sequence vector comprising the nucleic acid sequence into a precursor microorganism by one or more of transformation, conjugation, or transduction; or 
 the recombinant microorganism comprises a chromosome, and the variant rpoC coding sequence is present in the chromosome based on replacement of an endogenous rpoC coding sequence by the variant rpoC coding sequence. 
 
 
     
 12. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 7 , wherein the recombinant microorganism was prepared from a bacterium of the genus  Escherichia  or a bacterium of the species  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 13. A method for regulating the copy number of a subject vector in the recombinant microorganism of  claim 7 , comprising: cultivating the recombinant microorganism in a culture medium under conditions sufficient for replication of the subject vector, wherein expression of the variant RpoC in the recombinant microorganism regulates the copy number of the subject vector. 
 
     
 14. The method according to  claim 13 , wherein expression of the variant RpoC in the recombinant microorganism decreases the copy number of the subject vector relative to expression of the wild-type RpoC comprising SEQ ID NO: 26 in a control microorganism. 
 
     
 15. A method for making a target product by use of the recombinant microorganism of  claim 7 , wherein the recombinant microorganism comprises a target gene vector, and the target gene vector comprises a target gene for making a target product, the method comprising the steps of:
 (1) cultivating the recombinant microorganism in a culture medium under conditions under which the recombinant microorganism expresses the target gene, thereby making the target product; and 
 (2) recovering the target product from the recombinant microorganism and/or the culture medium, 
 wherein the target product comprises one or more of (i) a target RNA, (ii) a target protein, (iii) a target biomaterial, (iv) a target polymer or biopolymer, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (v) a target sweetener, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (vi) a target oil, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (vii) a target fat, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (viii) a target polysaccharide, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (ix) a target amino acid, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (x) a target nucleotide, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (xi) a target vaccine, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, or (xii) a target pharmaceutical product, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof. 
 
 
     
 16. The method according to  claim 15 , wherein expression of the variant RpoC in the recombinant microorganism decreases the copy number of the target gene vector relative to expression of the wild-type RpoC comprising SEQ ID NO: 26 in a control microorganism. 
 
     
 17. The method according to  claim 15 , wherein the variant RpoC comprises:
 (1) an N-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 28; 
 (2) a central domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 29; and 
 (3) a C-terminal domain comprising SEQ ID NO: 30. 
 
 
     
 18. The method according to  claim 15 , wherein the variant RpoC comprises SEQ ID NO: 27. 
 
     
 19. The method according to  claim 15 , wherein the recombinant microorganism was prepared by introducing the target gene vector into the recombinant microorganism by one or more of transformation, conjugation, or transduction. 
 
     
 20. The method according to  claim 15 , wherein the recombinant microorganism was prepared from a bacterium of the genus  Escherichia  or a bacterium of the species  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 21. The method according to  claim 15 , wherein the target product comprises one or more of (v) a target sweetener, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (viii) a target polysaccharide, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, (ix) a target amino acid, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, and (xi) a target vaccine, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof, and (xii) a target pharmaceutical product, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof. 
 
     
 22. The method according to  claim 15 , wherein the target product comprises (iv) a target polymer or biopolymer, precursor thereof, and/or enzyme for production thereof. 
 
     
 23. A gene replacement vector comprising a variant rpoC RNA polymerase β subunit protein coding sequence (variant rpoC coding sequence) and a gene replacement sequence, wherein
 the variant rpoC coding sequence encodes a variant RpoC RNA polymerase β subunit protein (variant RpoC); and 
 the variant RpoC comprises an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to SEQ ID NO:27 and has cysteine at the position corresponding to the 47 th  amino acid of a wild-type RpoC RNA-polymerase β subunit protein (wild-type RpoC) of  Escherichia coli  comprising SEQ ID NO:26; and 
 the gene replacement sequence encodes a protein for replacing an endogenous rpoC coding sequence in a chromosome of a microorganism with the variant rpoC coding sequence. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
