
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A method of treating or alleviation a condition caused by a bacterial infection in a subject in need thereof, comprising:
 administering to the subject an antibacterial composition comprising a compound represented by Formula 1 or Formula 2, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the antibacterial composition further comprises a carrier, an excipient, a diluent, an additive, or combinations thereof. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the antibacterial composition further comprises at least one component selected from the group consisting of methyl cellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, magnesium stearate, polyethylene glycol, sodium dehydroacetate, sodium hypochlorite, butylhydroxyanisole (BHA), tar dye, dulcin, cyclamate and sodium saccharine. 
 
     
 4. The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the bacterial infection is an infection caused by a gram-negative microorganism. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the bacterial infection is an infection caused by a bacteria having antibiotics resistance. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 5 , where in the antibiotics resistance is a resistance to at least one component selected from the group consisting of a penicillin antibiotic, a methicillin antibiotic, a quinolone antibiotic, a vancomycin antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, and an aminoglycoside antibiotic. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the bacterial infection is the infection caused by at least one gram-positive microorganism selected from the group consisting of the genus  Staphylococcus , the genus  Bacillus , the genus  Streptococcus , the genus  Enterococcus , or combinations thereof. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the bacterial infection is the infection caused by at least one gram-negative microorganism selected from the group consisting of the genus  Salmonella , the genus  Acinetobacter , the genus  Escherichia , the genus  Pseudomonas , the genus  Klebsiella , or combinations thereof. 
 
     
 9. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the bacterial infection is the infection caused by at least one gram-positive microorganism selected from the group consisting of  Staphylococcus aureus , methicillin-resistant  Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA), quinolone-resistant  Staphylococcus aureus  (QRSA), vancomycin resistant  Enterococcus  (VRE), vancomycin intermediate-resistant  S. aureus  (VISA),  Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus cereus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Enterococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus epidermidis , or combinations thereof. 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the bacterial infection is the infection caused by at least one gram-negative microorganism selected from the group consisting of  Salmonella typhimurium, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, Acinetobacter baumanii, E. coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella aerogenes, Klebsiella pnemoniae , or combinations thereof. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the antibacterial composition is a pharmaceutical composition, a quasi-drug composition, a food composition, or a feed composition for livestock or fish. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the condition is a disease selected from the group consisting of (i) to (iii) below:
 (i) pyogenic infection; 
 (ii) food poisoning; and 
 (iii) bacteremia, sepsis, urinary tract infection, pneumonia, pleural empyema, tympanitis, mastoiditis, meningitis, osteomyelitis, arthritis, peritonitis, pericarditis, cellulitis, typhus, and acute gastroenteritis. 
 
 
     
 13. A method of inhibiting a growth of a bacteria, comprising:
 applying, to a site suspected of the growth of the bacteria, a compound represented by Formula 1 or Formula 2, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
     
 14. The method according to  claim 13 , wherein the bacteria is a gram-negative microorganism. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 13 , wherein the bacteria is a bacteria having antibiotics resistance. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 15 , wherein the antibiotics resistance is a resistance to at least one component selected from the group consisting of a penicillin antibiotic, a methicillin antibiotic, a quinolone antibiotic, a vancomycin antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, and an aminoglycoside antibiotic. 
 
     
 17. The method of  claim 13 , wherein the bacteria is at least one gram-positive microorganism selected from the group consisting of the genus  Staphylococcus , the genus  Bacillus , the genus  Streptococcus , the genus  Enterococcus , or combinations thereof. 
 
     
 18. The method of  claim 13 , wherein the bacteria is at least one gram-negative microorganism of selected from the group consisting of the genus  Salmonella , the genus  Acinetobacter , the genus  Escherichia , the genus  Pseudomonas , the genus  Klebsiella , or combinations thereof. 
 
     
 19. A method of treating a bacterial infection in a human, comprising administering an antibacterial composition to a subject in need thereof a compound represented by Formula 1 or Formula 2, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
