
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. An isolated bacterial strain of the genus  Fictibacillus  having IDAC Accession number 120121-01. 
 
     
 2. A plant or part thereof inoculated with the bacterial strain of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 3. A composition comprising (a) an isolated bacterial strain of the genus  Fictibacillus  having IDAC Accession number 120121-01 and (b) an inoculum carrier. 
 
     
 4. The composition of  claim 3 , wherein the inoculum carrier comprises biochar. 
 
     
 5. The composition of  claim 4 , wherein the biochar is coarse biochar. 
 
     
 6. The composition of  claim 3 , further comprising a nutrient medium, optionally wherein the nutrient medium comprises tryptone, sodium chloride and yeast extract. 
 
     
 7. The composition of  claim 3 , wherein the isolated bacterial strain produces Indole-3-acetic acid, siderophores and/or has nitrogen fixing ability. 
 
     
 8. The composition of  claim 3 , further comprising at least one additional isolated bacterial strain with plant growth promoting activity. 
 
     
 9. A method of increasing the growth and/or pest resistance of a plant comprising inoculating the plant with
 (a) an isolated bacterial strain of the genus  Fictibacillus  having IDAC Accession number 120121-01, or 
 (b) the composition of  claim 3 , and growing the plant. 
 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 9 , wherein a plant substrate proximate to the plant is inoculated with the isolated bacterial strain or the composition of  claim 2 , thereby inoculating the plant with the isolated bacterial strain of the genus  Fictibacillus  or the composition. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 10 , wherein the plant substrate proximate to the plant is soil. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the method further comprises inoculating the plant with at least one additional isolated bacterial strain having plant growth promoting activity. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 9 , wherein increasing plant growth is measured as an increase in one or more of fruit weight, height of plant, height of stalk, fruit yield, ratio of head weight to shoot weight, and increased leaf area, compared to one or more control plants not inoculated with the isolated bacterial strain of the genus  Fictibacillus  or the composition of  claim 2 . 
 
     
 14. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the pest resistance is measured as a decrease in pest damage as compared to one or more control plants not inoculated with the isolated bacterial strain of the genus  Fictibacillus  or the composition of  claim 2 . 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the plant is a crop plant. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the plant is a fruit or vegetable plant. 
 
     
 17. A kit comprising a first container comprising an inoculum carrier and a second container comprising an isolated bacterial strain of the genus  Fictibacillus  having IDAC Accession number 120121-01. 
 
     
 18. The kit of  claim 17 , further comprising at least one additional container comprising a nutrient medium, at least one additional isolated bacterial strain with plant growth promoting activity, and/or a plant substrate. 
 
     
 19. The kit of  claim 17 , wherein the inoculum carrier comprises biochar. 
 
     
 20. The kit of  claim 19 , wherein the biochar is coarse biochar. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
