
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method for producing a preantral follicle-derived embryonic stem cell, which comprises the steps of:
 (a) obtaining a preantral follicle from mammalian ovaries;   (b) growing the preantral follicle in vitro;   (c) maturing an oocyte in vitro present in the cultured preantral follicle;   (d) activating the matured oocyte for parthenogenesis;   (e) culturing the activated oocyte to form a blastocyst; and   (f) culturing inner cell mass (ICM) cells of the blastocyst to produce the preantral follicle-derived embryonic stem cell.   
 
     
   2 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the preantral follicle is obtained by a mechanical method. 
 
     
   3 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the preantral follicle is an early secondary follicle. 
 
     
   4 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the mammal is human, bovine, sheep, ovine, pig, horse, rabbit, goat, mouse, hamster or rat. 
 
     
   5 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the preantral follicle is grown in vitro to pseudoantral stage in step (b). 
 
     
   6 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the growing the preantral follicle of step (b) is carried out in vitro by a single cell culture method. 
 
     
   7 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the culturing of the activated oocyte of step (e) is carried out by a single cell culture method. 
 
     
   8 . A preantral follicle-derived embryonic stem cell, wherein the embryonic stem cell has the same karyotype as an oocyte present in the preantral follicle, is stainable with alkaline phosphatase and capable of forming an embryonic body and teratoma. 
 
     
   9 . The preantral follicle-derived embryonic stem cell according to  claim 8 , wherein the embryonic stem cell is derived from an early secondary follicle. 
 
     
   10 . (canceled) 
 
     
   11 . A preantral follicle-derived embryonic stem cell, wherein the embryonic stem cell has the same karyotype as an oocyte present in the preantral follicle, is stainable with alkaline phosphatase and capable of forming an embryonic body and teratoma, wherein the embryonic stem cell is prepared by the method of  claim 1 . 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
