
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A methanotrophic biomass composition comprising a coenzyme Q8 in a substantially reduced form.  
 
     
   2 . The methanotrophic biomass composition of  claim 1  wherein the coenzyme Q8 is at a concentration of at least 1000 ppm.  
 
     
   3 . The methanotrophic biomass composition of  claim 1  comprising bacteria selected from the group genera consisting of  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus , and  Methylosinus.    
 
     
   4 . The methanotrophic biomass composition of  claim 3  wherein the bacteria are selected from the group consisting of  Methylococcus capsulatus, Methylomonas  sp. 16a having the ATCC designation ATCC PTA-2402.  
 
     
   5 . A feed composition comprising the methanotrophic biomass according to anyone of claims  1 - 4 .  
 
     
   6 . A feed composition according to  claim 5  wherein the composition is fish feed.  
 
     
   7 . A method for the production of a methanotrophic biomass comprising a coenzyme Q8 in substantially reduced form comprising the steps of: 
 a) providing a methanotrophic biomass comprising coenzyme Q8 in substantially oxidized form; and    b) processing the methanotrophic biomass of step (a) under anoxic conditions whereby the coenzyme Q8 is reduced.    
 
     
   8 . A method for the production of methanotrophic biomass comprising a coenzyme Q8 in substantially reduced form comprising the steps of: 
 a) providing a methanotrophic bacteria which produces coenzyme Q8 in substantially oxidized form;    b) contacting said methanotrophic bacteria with a growth media comprising: 
 1) at least one electron donor species; and  
 2) a source of molecular oxygen;  
   under substantially oxygen free conditions whereby the coenzyme Q8 is substantially reduced to produce a methanotrophic biomass comprising coenzyme Q8 in substantially reduced form; and    c) optionally isolating the methanotrophic biomass of step b).    
 
     
   9 . A method according to  claim 8  wherein the at least one electron donor species is selected from the group consisting of methane and methanol.  
 
     
   10 . A method according to  claim 9  wherein reduced form coenzyme Q8 is produced at a concentration of at least 1000 ppm.  
 
     
   11 . A method according to  claim 8  wherein isolation of the methanotrophic biomass is conducted under substantially oxygen free conditions.  
 
     
   12 . A method according to  claim 8  wherein the methanotrophic bacteria is selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus , and  Methylosinus.    
 
     
   13 . A method according to  claim 12  wherein the methanotrophic bacteria is  Methylomonas  or  Methylococcus.    
 
     
   14 . A method according to  claim 13  wherein the methanotrophic bacteria is selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a having ATCC number PTA-2402 and  Methylococcus capsulatus  having NCIMB number 11132.  
 
     
   15 . A method according to  claim 12  wherein the methanotrophic bacteria is a high growth methanotrophic bacteria.  
 
     
   16 . A method according to  claim 7  or  claim 8  wherein a reducing agent is added to the methanotrophic biomass.  
 
     
   17 . A method according to  claim 16  wherein said reducing agent is selected from the group consisting of sugars, pyruvate, sodium hydrosulfite, sodium borohydrite, and ascorbate.  
 
     
   18 . A method according to claims  7  or  8  wherein the reduced coenzyme Q8 is isolated, purified, or partially purified from the methanotrophic biomass 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
