
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method for stably expressing a nucleic acid molecule in a methylotrophic microorganism comprising: 
 a) providing a methylotrophic microorganism having an endogenous cytCP genomic region;    b) providing at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule to be stably-expressed;    c) integrating the at least one nucleic acid molecule of (b) into said cytCP region of said methylotrophic microorganism whereby a transformed methylotrophic microorganism is created; and    d) growing the transformed methylotrophic microorganism of (c) under conditions whereby the at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule is stably expressed.    
 
     
   2 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the cytCP genomic region is expressed under the control of a nucleic acid molecule encoding an endogenous cytCP promoter selected form the group consisting of: 
 a) a nucleic acid molecule as represented by SEQ ID NO: 34    b) a nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes to a) under stringent hybridization conditions comprising 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65° C.; and    c) a nucleic acid molecule having at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO: 34.    
 
     
   3 . A method according to  claim 2  wherein the cytCP promoter is represented by SEQ ID NO: 34.  
 
     
   4 . A method according to any one of claims  1 ,  2 , or  3  wherein the endogenous cytCP genomic region comprises a nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of: 
 a) a nucleic acid molecule as represented by SEQ ID NO: 33;    b) a nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes to a) under stringent hybridization conditions comprising 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65° C.; and    c) a nucleic acid molecule having at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO: 33.    
 
     
   5 . A method according to  claim 4  wherein the cytCP region comprises a nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 33, 35, and 37.  
 
     
   6 . A method according to any one of claims  1 ,  2 , or  3  wherein the cytCP genomic region comprises at least one nucleic acid molecule encoding an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 36, and 38.  
 
     
   7 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the cytCP genomic region comprises, in a 5′ to 3′ direction, the gene cluster orfA-cytCP.  
 
     
   8 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule comprises multiple tandem genes in a single fragment.  
 
     
   9 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule is a gene.  
 
     
   10 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated within the orfA or cytCP open reading frame.  
 
     
   11 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule is a gene encoding an enzyme selected from the group consisting of: transaldolase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, keto deoxy phosphogluconate aldolase, phosphoglucomutase, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, phosphofructokinase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydratase, 6-phosphogluconate-6-phosphate-1 dehydrogenase, dxs, dxr, ispA, ispD, ispE, ispF, crtE, crtX, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtD, crtO, crtW, idi, genes encoding limonene synthase, ugp, gumD, wza, espB, espM, waaE, espV, gumH, genes encoding glycosyltransferase genes, aroG, aroB, aroQ, aroE, aroK, 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase, aroC, trpE, trpD, trpC, trpB, pheA, tyrAc, pds, phaC, phaE, efe, pdc, adh, pinene synthase, bornyl synthase, phellandrene synthase, cineole synthase, sabinene synthase, and taxadiene synthase.  
 
     
   12 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule encodes at least one enzyme in the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway.  
 
     
   13 . A method according to  claim 12  wherein the at least one at least one enzyme in the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is selected from the group consisting of: geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase; lycopene cyclase, phytoene desaturase, phytoene synthase, β-carotene hydroxylase, β-carotene ketolase and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase.  
 
     
   14 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein methylotrophic microorganism is a methylotrophic bacteria selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium, Methanomonas, Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas , and  Pseudomonas.    
 
     
   15 . A method according to  claim 1  wherein the methylotrophic microorganism is a methanotrophic microorganism.  
 
     
   16 . A method according to  claim 15  wherein the methanotrophic microorganism is a high growth methanotrophic microorganism.  
 
     
   17 . A method according to  claim 16  wherein the high growth methanotrophic microorganism is a  Methylomonas  sp.  
 
     
   18 . A method according to  claim 17  wherein said  Methylomonas  sp. comprises a 16S rRNA gene as represented by SEQ ID NO: 39.  
 
     
   19 . A method according to  claim 18  wherein said  Methylomonas  sp. is selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and  Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200 (ATCC PTA-6887).  
 
     
   20 . A method for the production of a carotenoid compound comprising: 
 a) providing a methylotrophic microorganism comprising at least one expressible nucleic acid molecule encoding at least one carotenoid biosynthetic pathway enzyme chromosomally integrated into a cytCP region;    b) contacting the methylotrophic microorganism of (a) with a carbon substrate selected from the group consisting of methane and methanol under conditions whereby said expressible nucleic acid molecule is expressed and at least one carotenoid compound is produced; and    c) optionally recovering said carotenoid compound of (b).    
 
     
   21 . A method according to  claim 20  wherein the methylotrophic microorganism is a methylotrophic bacteria selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium, Methanomonas, Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas , and  Pseudomonas.    
 
     
   22 . A method according to  claim 20  wherein the methylotrophic microorganism is a high growth methanotrophic microorganism.  
 
     
   23 . A method according to  claim 22  wherein the methanotrophic microorganism is a  Methylomonas  sp.  
 
     
   24 . A method according to  claim 23  wherein said  Methylomonas  sp. has a 16S rRNA gene sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 39.  
 
     
   25 . A method according to  claim 24  wherein said  Methylomonas  sp. is selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) and  Methylomonas  sp. MWM1200 (ATCC PTA-6887).  
 
     
   26 . A method according to  claim 20  wherein the genes encoding the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway encode at least one enzyme selected from the group consisting of: geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase; lycopene cyclase, phytoene desaturase, phytoene synthase, β-carotene hydroxylase, β-carotene ketolase and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase.  
 
     
   27 . A method according to  claim 20  wherein said carotenoid compound is selected from the group consisting of antheraxanthin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, capsorubrin, alpha-cryptoxanthin alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, epsilon-carotene, echinenone, gamma-carotene, zeta-carotene, alpha-cryptoxanthin, diatoxanthin, 7,8-didehydroastaxanthin, fucoxanthin, fucoxanthinol, isorenieratene, lactucaxanthin, lutein, lycopene, neoxanthin, neurosporene, hydroxyneurosporene, peridinin, phytoene, rhodopin, rhodopin glucoside, siphonaxanthin, spheroidene, spheroidenone, spirilloxanthin, uriolide, uriolide acetate, violaxanthin, zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside, zeaxanthin, and canthaxanthin.  
 
     
   28 . A methylotrophic microorganism comprising at least one foreign nucleic acid molecule integrated in the cytCP region of the genome.  
 
     
   29 . The methylotrophic microorganism of  claim 28  wherein the methylotrophic microorganism is a methylotrophic bacteria.  
 
     
   30 . The methylotrophic bacteria of  claim 29  wherein the methylotrophic bacteria is selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium, and Methanomonas.    
 
     
   31 . The methylotrophic bacteria according to  claim 30  wherein  Methylomonas  sp. comprises a 16S rRNA gene as represented by SEQ ID NO: 39.  
 
     
   32 . An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a cytCP promoter selected from the group consisting of: 
 a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule as represented by SEQ ID NO: 34.    b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65° C.; and    c) an isolated nucleic acid molecule having at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO: 34.    
 
     
   33 . A method for the expression of a coding region of interest in a recombinant methylotrophic bacteria comprising: 
 a) providing a recombinant methylotrophic bacteria having a chimeric gene comprising: 
 i) the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 32  encoding a cytCP promoter; and  
 ii) a coding region of interest expressible in a methylotrophic bacteria  
   wherein the isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding said cytCP promoter is operably linked to said coding region of interest; and    b) growing the recombinant methylotrophic bacteria under conditions wherein said chimeric gene is expressed.    
 
     
   34 . A method according to  claim 33  wherein the coding regions of interest encode at least one carotenoid enzyme selected from the group consisting of geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase; lycopene cyclase, phytoene desaturase, phytoene synthase, β-carotene hydroxylase, β-carotene ketolase and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase.  
 
     
   35 . A method according to  claim 34  wherein said coding region of interest is selected for the group consisting of crtE, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtW, crtZ, and idi.  
 
     
   36 . A method according to  claim 35  where said coding region of interest is a gene cluster comprising crtE, crtY, crI, crtB, crtW, crtZ, and idi.  
 
     
   37 . A method according to  claim 36  wherein said gene cluster is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 6, SEQ ID NO: 7, and SEQ ID NO: 8. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
