
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method for purifying a crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid using a microorganism, the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) reacting a microorganism having the ability to convert 2-formyl-6-naphthoic acid to 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid with a crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid to remove 2-formyl-6-naphthoic acid contained in the crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid;   (b) adding an acidic solution to the reaction solution prepared in step (a) to adjust the pH of the reaction solution and reacting the mixed solution with stirring to crystallize the crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid;   (c) washing the crystallized crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid to remove impurities contained in the crystallized crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid; and   (d) drying the washed product to obtain 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid in a pure crystalline form.   
 
     
   2 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein step (a) includes the sub-steps of
 1) inoculating the microorganism onto a liquid medium, culturing the inoculum with shaking, collecting the cultured bacteria by centrifugation, and suspending the collected bacteria in physiological saline or distilled water to activate the bacteria;   2) mixing a crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid (cNDA) as a matrix with a buffer solution and adjusting the pH of the mixed solution by the addition of an alkaline solution to prepare a reaction solution for subsequent purification; and   3) reacting the active bacteria prepared in 1) with the reaction solution prepared in 2) to convert 2-formyl-6-naphthoic acid contained in the crude naphthalene dicarboxylic acid to 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, so that the purity of the 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid is increased.   
 
     
   3 . The method according to  claim 2 , wherein the microorganism is a bacterium belonging to the genus  Bacillus  or  Pseudomonas.    
 
     
   4 . The method according to  claim 3 , wherein the microorganism is  Bacillus  sp. F-I (KCTC-10342BP),  Bacillus  sp. F-3 (KCTC-10335BP), or  Pseudomonas  sp. HN-72 (KCTC-10819BP). 
 
     
   5 . The method according to  claim 2 , wherein the buffer solution is selected from the group consisting of water, sodium carbonate buffer (Na 2 O 3 /NaHCO 3 ), glycine buffer (glycine/NaOH), potassium phosphate buffer (KH 2 PO 4 /KOH), sodium phosphate buffer (Na 2 HPO 4 /NaH 2 PO 4 ), succinic acid buffer (succinic acid/NaOH), sodium acetate buffer (sodium acetate/acetic acid), citric acid buffer (citric acid/sodium citrate), sodium pyrophosphate buffer (Na 4 P 2 O 7 /HCl), boric acid buffer (boric acid/NaOH), sodium borate buffer (sodium borate/HCl), and mixtures thereof; and has a concentration of 0.01 to 100 mM. 
 
     
   6 . The method according to  claim 2 , wherein the alkaline solution is a NaOH or KOH solution. 
 
     
   7 . The method according to  claim 2 , wherein the mixed solution further contains an organic solvent. 
 
     
   8 . The method according to  claim 7 , wherein the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of dimethylsulfoxide, N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide, tetrahydrofuran, and mixtures thereof; and is added at a concentration of 0.01 to 10%. 
 
     
   9 . The method according to  claim 2 , wherein the reaction is conducted at 25 to 50° C. for 1 minute to 2 hours. 
 
     
   10 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the acidic solution is selected from the group consisting of sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, glacial acetic acid, nitric acid, and mixtures thereof. 
 
     
   11 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the pH of the reaction solution is adjusted to the range of 1 to 4. 
 
     
   12 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the reaction is carried out at 4° C. to 8O° C. for 1 minute to 12 hours. 
 
     
   13 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the stirring is performed at a rate of 0 to 1,000 rpm. 
 
     
   14 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein step (c) is carried out by dispersing the crystallized cNDA in water, stirring the dispersion at a pressure of 1 to 28 kg/cm 2  and a temperature of 100 to 25O° C. for 10 minutes to 1 hour, filtering the crystallized cNDA to remove the water, and repeating the above procedure. 
 
     
   15 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the drying is performed at 30 to 200° C. 
 
     
   16 . The method according to  claim 1 , further comprising the step of removing the microorganism used in step (a) after step (a) and prior to step (b). 
 
     
   17 . The method according to  claim 16 , wherein the removal of the microorganism is achieved by a microfilter system, a continuous type centrifugal separator or a decanter. 
 
     
   18 . The method according to  claim 17 , wherein the microfilter system uses a filter having a pore size of 0.1 to 0.5 μm and made of a material selected from ceramics, stainless steel, polypropylene and polyethylene terephthalate (PET). 
 
     
   19 . 2,6-Naphthalene dicarboxylic acid in a pure crystalline form produced by the method according to  claim 1 . 
 
     
   20 . 2,6-Naphthalene dicarboxylic acid according to  claim 19 , wherein the 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid is in a regular or random crystalline form. 
 
     
   21 . 2,6-Naphthalene dicarboxylic acid according to  claim 19 , wherein the regular crystalline form is a lattice structure. 
 
     
   22 . 2,6-Naphthalene dicarboxylic acid according to  claim 19 , wherein the 2,6-naphthalene dicarboxylic acid crystal has an average particle diameter not smaller than 100 μm. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
