
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
   1 . A plasmid pADH-kex2 containing kex2 gene linked to ADH promoter.  
 
     
   2 . A plasmid pADH-SteSubInv containing a recombinant cDNA coding for a fusion protein linked to ADH promoter, wherein the fusion protein comprises Golgi recognition signal and transmembrane domain of yeast Golgi protein Ste13, cleavage site of yeast α-factor as a substrate for Kex2, and yeast invertase.  
 
     
   3 .  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  SEY6210/pSTE-KR-SUC, pCUP-Kex2 (KCTC 1024BP) cotransformed with a plasmid pADH-kex2 containing kex2 gene linked to ADH promoter and the pADH-SteSubInv of  claim 2 .  
 
     
   4 . A method for determining substrate specificity of a protease which comprises the steps of: 
 (i) constructing an expression vector containing a gene for protease;    (ii) constructing an expression vector containing genes for Golgi recognition signal and transmembrane domain of membrane protein locating at yeast Golgi complex, substrate domain with specific amino acid sequence, and yeast invertase;    (iii) preparing a transformant by cotransforming suc2 mutant yeast with the said two expression vectors; and,    (iv) determining viability of the transformant in a medium containing a sole carbon source of sucrose.    
 
     
   5 . The method for determining substrate specificity of a protease of  claim 4 , wherein the expression vector containing a gene for protease is pADH-kex2.  
 
     
   6 . The method for determining substrate specificity of a protease of  claim 4 , wherein the Golgi recognition signal domain is localized in Ste13.  
 
     
   7 . The method for determining substrate specificity of a protease of  claim 4 , wherein the expression vector containing genes for Golgi recognition signal and transmembrane domain of membrane protein locating at yeast Golgi complex, substrate domain with specific amino acid sequence, and yeast invertase is pADH-SteSubInv.  
 
     
   8 . The method for determining substrate specificity of a protease of  claim 4 , wherein the transformant is  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  SEY6210/pSTE-KR-SUC, pCUP-Kex2 (KCTC 1024BP).  
 
     
   9 . The method for determining substrate specificity of a protease of  claim 4 , wherein the transformant is grown at 25 to 35° C. for 3 to 10 days. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
