
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 .- 32 . (canceled) 
 
     
   33 . A method of treating obesity in a subject comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an antioxidant-enriched composition comprising a berry extract that has been fermented with a culture of an isolated bacterial strain having all the identifying characteristics of the bacterium  Serratia vaccinii  deposited under International Depository Authority of Canada (IDAC) Accession Number 160103, wherein said antioxidant-enriched composition has anti-obesity activity. 
 
     
   34 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the obesity is diabetes-related obesity. 
 
     
   35 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises improving glucose tolerance in the subject. 
 
     
   36 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing plasma glucose levels in the subject. 
 
     
   37 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises suppressing the appetite of the subject. 
 
     
   38 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing hyperphagia in the subject. 
 
     
   39 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing body weight in the subject. 
 
     
   40 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing body fat in the subject. 
 
     
   41 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing abdominal fat in the subject. 
 
     
   42 . (canceled) 
 
     
   43 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein said berry extract is derived from berries of the genus  Vaccinium.    
 
     
   44 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the berry extract is a blueberry extract. 
 
     
   45 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the bacterial strain is the bacterium  Serratia vaccinii  deposited under Accession Number 160101 
 
     
   46 . The method according to  claim 33 , wherein the berry extract is fermented by a process comprising:
 (a) providing a sterile medium comprising the berry extract;   (b) inoculating said sterile medium with the bacterial strain to provide a bacterial culture;   (c) fermenting said bacterial culture to provide a fermented berry extract, and   (d) recovering said fermented berry extract.   
 
     
   47 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein said bacterial culture is fermented at a temperature between about 8째 C. and about 36째 C. 
 
     
   48 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein said bacterial culture is fermented under aerobic conditions. 
 
     
   49 . A method of preventing the development of obesity in a subject, comprising administering to the subject a prophylactically effective amount of an antioxidant-enriched composition comprising a berry extract that has been fermented with a culture of a bacterial strain having all the identifying characteristics of the bacterium  Serratia vaccinii  deposited under International Depository Authority of Canada (IDAC) Accession Number 160103, wherein said antioxidant-enriched composition has anti-obesity activity. 
 
     
   50 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the obesity is diabetes-related obesity. 
 
     
   51 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises improving glucose tolerance in the subject. 
 
     
   52 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing plasma glucose levels in the subject. 
 
     
   53 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing hyperphagia in the subject. 
 
     
   54 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing body weight in the subject. 
 
     
   55 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing body fat in the subject. 
 
     
   56 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the anti-obesity activity comprises decreasing abdominal fat in the subject. 
 
     
   57 . (canceled) 
 
     
   58 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein said berry extract is derived from berries of the genus  Vaccinium.    
 
     
   59 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the berry extract is a blueberry extract. 
 
     
   60 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the bacterial strain is the bacterium  Serratia vaccinii  deposited under Accession Number 160103. 
 
     
   61 . The method according to  claim 49 , wherein the berry extract is fermented by a process comprising:
 (a) providing a sterile medium comprising the berry extract;   (b) inoculating said sterile medium with the bacterial strain to provide a bacterial culture;   (c) fermenting said bacterial culture to provide a fermented berry extract, and   (d) recovering said fermented berry extract.   
 
     
   62 . The method according to  claim 61 , wherein said bacterial culture is fermented at a temperature between about 8째 C. and about 36째 C. 
 
     
   63 . The method according to  claim 61 , wherein said bacterial culture is fermented under aerobic conditions. 
 
     
   64 .- 65 . (canceled) 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
