
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method of treating a mammal for a preneoplastic/neoplastic disease, wherein said disease is characterized by abnormal MN/CA9 gene expression, comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising a MAPK pathway inhibitor.  
 
     
   2 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein said MAPK pathway inhibitor is a raf kinase inhibitor.  
 
     
   3 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein said raf kinase inhibitor is the bis aryl-urea Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) or an omega-carboxypyridyl substituted urea.  
 
     
   4 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein said raf kinase inhibitor is the bis aryl-urea Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006).  
 
     
   5 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein said MAPK pathway inhibitor is conjugated to an antibody or biologically active antibody fragment which specifically binds MN/CA IX.  
 
     
   6 . The method of  claim 1  further comprising administering to said mammal radiation and/or a therapeutically effective amount in a physiologically acceptable formulation of one or more of the following compounds selected from the group consisting of: conventional anticancer drugs, chemotherapeutic agents, different inhibitors of cancer-related pathways, bioreductive drugs, gene therapy vectors, CA IX-specific antibodies and CA IX-specific antibody fragments that are biologically active.  
 
     
   7 . The method of  claim 6 , wherein said inhibitors of cancer-related pathways are inhibitors of the PI3K pathway.  
 
     
   8 . The method of  claim 6 , wherein said gene therapy vectors are targeted to hypoxic tumors.  
 
     
   9 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein said preneoplastic/neoplastic disease characterized by abnormal MN/CA9 gene expression is selected from the group consisting of mammary, urinary tract, bladder, kidney, ovarian, uterine, cervical, endometrial, squamous cell, adenosquamous cell, vaginal, vulval, prostate, liver, lung, skin, thyroid, pancreatic, testicular, brain, head and neck, mesodermal, sarcomal, stomach, spleen, gastrointestinal, esophageal, and colon preneoplastic/neoplastic diseases.  
 
     
   10 . The method of  claim 1  wherein said disease is a normoxic tumor.  
 
     
   11 . The method of  claim 1  wherein said disease is a hypoxic tumor.  
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein said mammal is a human.  
 
     
   13 . A method of therapy selection for a human patient with a preneoplastic/neoplastic disease, comprising: 
 (a) detecting and quantifying the level of MN/CA9 gene expression in a sample taken from the patient; and    (b) deciding to use MAPK pathway-directed therapy to treat the patient based upon abnormal levels of MN/CA9 gene expression in the patient's sample.    
 
     
   14 . The method of  claim 13 , wherein said preneoplastic/neoplastic sample is a formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sample or a frozen tissue sample.  
 
     
   15 . The method of  claim 13 , wherein said detecting and quantifying step (a) comprises immunologically detecting and quantifying the level of MN/CA IX protein in said sample.  
 
     
   16 . The method according to  claim 15 , wherein said immunologically detecting and quantifying comprises the use of an assay selected from the group consisting of Western blots, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, radioimmunoassay, competition immunoassays, dual antibody sandwich assays, immunohistochemical staining assays, agglutination assays, and fluorescent immunoassays.  
 
     
   17 . The method according to  claim 15 , wherein said immunologically detecting and quantifying comprises the use of the monoclonal antibody secreted by the hybridoma VU-M75 which has Accession No. ATCC HB 11128.  
 
     
   18 . The method of  claim 13  wherein said MAPK-directed therapy is a raf kinase inhibitor.  
 
     
   19 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said raf kinase inhibitor is the bis aryl-urea Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) or an omega-carboxypyridyl substituted urea.  
 
     
   20 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said raf kinase inhibitor is the bis aryl-urea Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006).  
 
     
   21 . The method of  claim 13  wherein said MAPK pathway inhibitor is conjugated to an antibody or a biologically active antibody fragment which specifically binds MN/CA IX.  
 
     
   22 . The method of  claim 13  wherein said MAPK pathway inhibitor is administered in combination with one or more additional therapies.  
 
     
   23 . The method of  claim 22 , wherein said one or more additional therapies target MN/CA9 gene expression or MN/CA IX enzymatic activity. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
