
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 - 7 . (canceled) 
 
     
   8 . A wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus,  Trametes vesicolor  having an International Depository Authority Number CBS1 17346. 
 
     
   9 . A process for manufacturing of ligninolytic enzymes, said process comprising:
 (1) providing a submerged fermentation system filled with an aqueous medium containing growth-stimulating nutrients and the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 8  that extracellulary produces laccase and peroxidases;   (2) maintaining two sets of fermentation parameters: first one for ensuring optimal growth of fungi for at least 2-3 days while the second set of parameters serves for optimising the best enzyme synthesis;   (3) isolating said ligninolytic enzymes from said aqueous medium.   
 
     
   10 . A ligninolytic enzyme derived from the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 8 . 
 
     
   11 . The ligninolytic enzyme of  claim 10 , being selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
     
   12 . A method for bioremediation comprising contacting waste with the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 8 , or an enzyme derived therefrom. 
 
     
   13 . The method of  claim 12 , wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
     
   14 . A method of biobleaching comprising contacting a substance with the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 8 , or an enzyme derived therefrom, thereby generating a biobleached substance. 
 
     
   15 . The method of  claim 14 , wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
     
   16 . The method of  claim 14 , wherein said substance comprise textile. 
 
     
   17 . A method of biopulping comprising contacting a lignocellulosic substrate with the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 8 , or an enzyme derived therefrom, thereby biopulping the lignocellulosic substrate. 
 
     
   18 . The method of  claim 17 , wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
     
   19 . A wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus,  Cerrena unicolor  having an International Depository Authority Number CBS117347. 
 
     
   20 . A process for manufacturing of ligninolytic enzymes, said process comprising:
 (1) providing a submerged fermentation system filled with an aqueous medium containing growth-stimulating nutrients and the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 19  that extracellulary produces laccase and peroxidases;   (2) maintaining two sets of fermentation parameters: first one for ensuring optimal growth of fungi for at least 2-3 days while the second set of parameters serves for optimising the best enzyme synthesis;   (3) isolating said ligninolytic enzymes from said aqueous medium.   
 
     
   21 . A ligninolytic enzyme derived from the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 19 . 
 
     
   22 . The ligninolytic enzyme of  claim 21 , being selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
     
   23 . A method for bioremediation comprising contacting waste with the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 19 , or an enzyme derived therefrom. 
 
     
   24 . The method of  claim 23 , wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
     
   25 . A method of biobleaching comprising contacting a substance with the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 19 , or an enzyme derived therefrom, thereby generating a biobleached substance. 
 
     
   26 . The method of  claim 25 , wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
     
   27 . The method of  claim 25 , wherein said substance comprise textile. 
 
     
   28 . A method of biopulping comprising contacting a lignocellulosic substrate with the wood-rotting Basidiomycetes fungus of  claim 19 , or an enzyme derived therefrom, thereby biopulping the lignocellulosic substrate. 
 
     
   29 . The method of  claim 28 , wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of a laccase and a manganese peroxidase. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
