
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed: 
   
   1 . An isolated biologically purified culture of a strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909. 
 
     
   2 . A composition comprising a strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909. 
 
     
   3 . A composition comprising cellular remains from a strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909, wherein the composition is essentially free of viable cells of the strain of  Bacillus pumilus.    
 
     
   4 . The composition of  claim 3 , wherein the cellular remains are lysed, lyophilized from, microfluidized from or otherwise derived from the strain of  Bacillus pumilus.    
 
     
   5 . A composition comprising material secreted by cells of a strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909, wherein the secreted material is separated in whole or in part from the cells. 
 
     
   6 . A composition comprising cellular remains and/or material secreted by cells of a strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909, wherein the composition is essentially free of viable cells of the strain of  Bacillus pumilus.    
 
     
   7 . A composition comprising cellular remains and/or material secreted by cells of the strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909, obtainable by a process comprising exposing cells of the strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909 to physical disruption that lyses bacterial cells. 
 
     
   8 . The composition of  claim 7 , wherein the physical disruption comprises microfluidization, sonication and/or lyophilization. 
 
     
   9 . The composition of  claim 7  or  claim 8 , the process comprising concentrating the cellular remains and/or material secreted by the cells into an aqueous concentrate or pellet or supernatant in one or more steps, optionally comprising centrifugation. 
 
     
   10 . The composition of any one of  claims 7 - 9 , comprising i) separating the cellular remains and/or material secreted by the cells from growth media, and ii) combining the cellular remains and/or material secreted by the cells with water to form an aqueous suspension and/or solution. 
 
     
   11 . The composition of any one of  claims 7 - 10 , wherein the composition is essentially free of viable cells of the strain of  Bacillus pumilus.    
 
     
   12 . The composition of any one of  claims 6 - 11 , wherein the cellular remains and/or material secreted by the cells is dispersed uniformly in the composition at a weight percent of solids to liquids from 0.001% to 10%. 
 
     
   13 . The composition of any one of  claims 2 - 12 , further comprising a liquid carrier. 
 
     
   14 . The composition of any one of  claims 2 - 13 , wherein the composition is an additive for use in a consumer product selected from a cosmetic composition, a sunscreen and/or sunblock composition, and a topically-applied pharmaceutical composition. 
 
     
   15 . The composition of any one of  claims 2 - 13 , wherein the composition is a consumer product selected from a cosmetic composition, a sunscreen and/or sunblock composition, and a topically-applied pharmaceutical composition. 
 
     
   16 . The composition of  claim 14  or  claim 15 , comprising one or more components chosen from an aqueous component, fatty component, volatile oil, non-volatile oil, surfactant, polymer, emulsifier, ultraviolet filter, sirtuin activator, anti-oxidant, and free-radical scavenger. 
 
     
   17 . The composition of  claim 16 , wherein composition comprises an anti-oxidant chosen from vitamin E, Urolithin A, and combinations thereof. 
 
     
   18 . The composition of  claim 16 , wherein the composition comprises a sirtuin activator, preferably resveratrol. 
 
     
   19 . The composition of any one of  claims 2 - 13 , wherein the composition is an additive for use in a consumer product selected from paint, stain, lacquer, varnish, glaze, ink, a UV-stabilizer, a textile-treatment composition, a leather-treatment composition, a hair-treatment composition, and a fur-treatment composition. 
 
     
   20 . The composition of any one of  claims 2 - 13 , wherein the composition is a consumer product selected from paint, stain, lacquer, varnish, glaze, ink, a UV-stabilizer, a textile-treatment composition, a leather-treatment composition, a hair-treatment composition, and a fur-treatment composition. 
 
     
   21 . The composition of any one of  claims 2 - 13 , wherein the composition is a layered composition comprising (i) a surface layer of the strain of bacteria, its cellular remains, its secreted materials, or a mixture of its cellular remains and its secreted materials; and (ii) a substrate upon which the strain of bacteria, its cellular remains, its secreted materials, or a mixture of its cellular remains and its secreted materials are deposited as a surface layer. 
 
     
   22 . The composition of any one of  claims 2 - 12 , wherein the composition is a solid composition comprising (i) an embedded amount of the strain of bacteria, its cellular remains, its secreted materials, or a mixture of its cellular remains and its secreted materials; and (ii) a solid material into which the strain of bacteria, its cellular remains, its secreted materials, or a mixture of its cellular remains and its secreted materials in embedded. 
 
     
   23 . The composition of  claim 22 , wherein said composition is macroscopically homogeneous. 
 
     
   24 . The composition of  claim 22 , wherein said composition is macroscopically heterogeneous. 
 
     
   25 . A method providing protection from ultraviolet light comprising administering a composition according to  claims 2 - 13  to a surface on a substrate or comprising integrating or embedding a composition according to  claims 2 - 13  into a material. 
 
     
   26 . The method of  claim 25 , wherein the substrate is alive, biologically-derived, or non-biological. 
 
     
   27 . A method of making a composition according to  claims 2 - 13  comprising obtaining bacteria of a strain of  Bacillus pumilus  deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909, optionally rendering the bacteria non-viable, optionally separating the bacteria from growth media, and adding the bacteria, or its cellular remains or secretions, or both its cellular remains and secretions, to a carrier to yield the composition. 
 
     
   28 . A method of directed evolution to produce a bacteria with resistance to ultraviolet light, comprising obtaining a sample of  Bacillus pumilus , growing the sample in artificial ultraviolet light at greater than or equal to 700 joules/m 2  of exposure (fluence), optionally approximately 900 joules/m 2  of exposure (fluence), and isolating viable bacteria surviving such growth conditions, wherein the isolated viable bacteria exhibit greater UV absorption compared to the original  Bacillus pumilus  from which the isolated viable bacteria was derived, optionally wherein the greater UV absorption is measured by comparison of UV absorption of lyophilized powders from the original  Bacillus pumilus  and the subsequent isolated viable bacteria, in each case re-suspended in diH 2 O at a concentration ranging from 0.1% w:v to 0.5% w:v. 
 
     
   29 . A composition comprising bacteria, or cellular remains, secretions, or both cellular remains and secretions, of such bacteria, wherein the bacteria are produced according to the method of  claim 28 . 
 
     
   30 . A composition, comprising cellular remains of bacteria, or secretions of bacteria, or cellular remains and secretions of bacteria, wherein the composition is (i) a consumer product selected from a cosmetic composition, a sunscreen and/or sunblock composition, a sun protection factor (SPF) booster, and a topically-applied pharmaceutical composition, or (ii) an additive for use in a consumer product selected from a cosmetic composition, a sunscreen and/or sunblock composition, a sun protection factor (SPF) booster, and a topically-applied pharmaceutical composition, wherein said bacteria have been artificially selected for UV-resistance. 
 
     
   31 . The composition of  claim 30 , obtainable by a process comprising growing the bacteria in artificial ultraviolet light and thereafter exposing the bacteria to mechanical disruption. 
 
     
   32 . The composition of  claim 31 , wherein the physical disruption comprises microfluidization, sonication and/or lyophilization. 
 
     
   33 . The composition of  claim 31  or  claim 32 , the process comprising concentrating the cellular remains and/or secretions into an aqueous concentrate or pellet or supernatant. 
 
     
   34 . The composition of any one of  claims 31 - 33 , comprising combining the cellular remains and/or secretions with water to form an aqueous suspension and/or solution at a weight percent of solids to liquids from 0.001% to 10%. 
 
     
   35 . The composition of any one of  claims 31 - 34 , wherein the composition is essentially free of viable cells of the bacteria and essentially free of growth media. 
 
     
   36 . The composition of any one of  claims 31 - 35 , wherein the artificial ultraviolet light is greater than or equal to 700 joules/m2 of exposure (fluence), and optionally approximately 900 joules/m2 of exposure (fluence). 
 
     
   37 . The composition of any one of  claims 31 - 36 , wherein the process comprises isolating the bacteria after growing in the artificial ultraviolet light prior to exposing the bacterial to mechanical disruption. 
 
     
   38 . The composition of any one of  claims 31 - 37 , wherein the bacteria were exposed to ultraviolet light naturally occurring in the stratosphere of Earth or beyond the stratosphere of Earth prior to growing the bacteria in the artificial ultraviolet light. 
 
     
   39 . The composition of  claim 38 , wherein the bacteria were exposed to the ultraviolet light naturally occurring in the stratosphere of Earth or beyond the stratosphere of Earth for about 18 months or more. 
 
     
   40 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 39 , wherein the bacteria are  Bacillus  bacteria. 
 
     
   41 . The composition of  claim 40 , wherein the bacteria are  Bacillus pumilus  bacteria. 
 
     
   42 . The composition of  claim 41 , wherein the bacteria are  Bacillus pumilus  bacteria deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-126909. 
 
     
   43 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 42 , wherein the bacteria is substantially homogeneous. 
 
     
   44 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 43 , comprising one or more components chosen from an aqueous component, fatty component, volatile oil, non-volatile oil, surfactant, polymer, emulsifier, ultraviolet filter, sirtuin activator, anti-oxidant, and free-radical scavenger. 
 
     
   45 . The composition of  claim 44 , wherein the composition comprises an anti-oxidant chosen from vitamin E, Urolithin A, and combinations thereof. 
 
     
   46 . The composition of  claim 44 , wherein the composition comprises a sirtuin activator, preferably resveratrol. 
 
     
   47 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 43 , wherein the cellular remains and/or secretions of bacteria is/are about 5% or less by weight in the composition. 
 
     
   48 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 46 , which is stable for 24 hours or longer. 
 
     
   49 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 48 , comprising xanthan gum in an amount of greater than zero to about 2% by weight, preferably up to about 0.2% by weight or less. 
 
     
   50 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 49 , which blocks blue spectrum ultraviolet light relative to an otherwise identical composition not comprising the cellular remains of the bacteria and/or secretions of the bacteria. 
 
     
   51 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 50 , for increasing an amount of skin hyaluronic acid. 
 
     
   52 . A method for increasing an amount of skin hyaluronic acid for a subject, comprising administering topically a composition of any one of  claims 30 - 50  to skin of a subject in an amount effective to increase the amount of skin hyaluronic acid. 
 
     
   53 . A method for boosting sun protection factor (SPF) in a composition, comprising: combining a composition of any one of  claims 30 - 50  with a base composition chosen from a cosmetic composition, a sunscreen and/or sunblock composition, and a topically-applied pharmaceutical composition, thereby providing a combined composition, wherein:
 the base composition has a first SPF value prior to the combining, and 
 the combined composition has a second SPF value greater than the first SPF value. 
 
 
     
   54 . A method for protection of skin from ultraviolet light, comprising administering a composition of any one of  claims 30 - 50  to skin of a subject. 
 
     
   55 . The composition of any one of  claims 30 - 50 , for protecting skin from HEV light. 
 
     
   56 . A method for protection of a surface and/or skin of a subject from HEV light, comprising administering a composition of any one of  claims 30 - 50  to said surface and/or skin of a subject. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
