
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . The isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01. 
 
     
   2 . A humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
     
   3 . A chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
     
   4 . The isolated hybridoma cell line deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01. 
 
     
   5 . A method for initiating antibody induced cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor comprising:
 providing a tissue sample from said human tumor;   providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01, the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01, or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen; and   contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample;   wherein binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample induces cytotoxicity.   
 
     
   6 . A CDMAB of the isolated monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 . 
 
     
   7 . A CDMAB of the humanized antibody of  claim 2 . 
 
     
   8 . A CDMAB of the chimeric antibody of  claim 3 . 
 
     
   9 . The isolated antibody or CDMAB thereof, of any one of  claims 1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  6 ,  7  or  8  conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells. 
 
     
   10 . A method of treating a human tumor susceptible to antibody induced cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or said CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   11 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 11  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   13 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   14 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   15 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized. 
 
     
   16 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
     
   17 . A monoclonal antibody capable of specific binding to the same epitope or epitopes as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01. 
 
     
   18 . A method of treating a human tumor in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   19 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   20 . The method of  claim 19  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   21 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   22 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   23 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized. 
 
     
   24 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
     
   25 . A method of treating a human tumor in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   26 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   27 . The method of  claim 26  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   28 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   29 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   30 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized. 
 
     
   31 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
     
   32 . A binding assay to determine a presence of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor, which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line AR46A35.3 having IDAC Accession No. 180706-01, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01, comprising:
 providing a tissue sample from said human tumor;   providing at least one of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line AR46A35.3 having IDAC Accession No. 180706-01;   contacting at least one said provided antibodies or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; and   determining binding of said at least provided antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample;   whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated.   
 
     
   33 . Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human tumor burden, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human tumor burden. 
 
     
   34 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   35 . The method of  claim 34  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   36 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   37 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   38 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized. 
 
     
   39 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
     
   40 . Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human tumor burden, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 180706-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof; in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human tumor burden. 
 
     
   41 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   42 . The method of  claim 41  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   43 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   44 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   45 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized. 
 
     
   46 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
     
   47 . A composition effective for treating a human cancerous tumor comprising in combination:
 an antibody or CDMAB of any one of  claims 1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8 , or  17 ;   a conjugate of said antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells; and   a requisite amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier;   wherein said composition is effective for treating said human cancerous tumor.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
