
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
   1 . A DNA construct comprising a cloning vector which comprises a sequence of a human MBL coding region, said sequence sufficient to express recombinant MBL in a transformed host cell, said recombinant MBL exhibiting specific binding to MBL-binding glycosylated protein and activation of complement in the presence of MBL-binding glycosylated protein and serine proteases.  
 
     
   2 . A transformant host cell which comprises a DNA construct comprising a cloning vector which comprises a sequence of a human MBL coding region, said sequence sufficient to express recombinant MBL in said transformed host cell, said recombinant MBL exhibiting specific binding to MBL-binding glycosylated protein and activation of complement in the presence of MBL-binding glycosylated protein and serine proteases.  
 
     
   3 . The transformant host cell  claim 2  which is selected from the group of cells consisting of CHO cells, human hepatocytes, and human embryonic kidney cells.  
 
     
   4 . The transformant host cell of  claim 2  which is a CHO cell line (MBL/D1-3) deposited to the International Depository Authority (KCTC 10472BP).  
 
     
   5 . Substantially purified recombinant MBL which has been expressed in a transformant host cell which comprises a DNA construct comprising a cloning vector which comprises a sequence of a human MBL coding region, said sequence sufficient to express recombinant MBL in said transformed host cell, said recombinant MBL exhibiting specific binding to MBL-binding glycosylated protein and activation of complement in the presence of MBL-binding glycosylated protein and serine proteases.  
 
     
   6 . The recombinant MBL of  claim 5  wherein said transformant host is CHO cell line (MBL/D1-3) deposited to the International Depository Authority (KCTC 10472BP).  
 
     
   7 . A composition comprising recombinant MBL in a pharmaceutical delivery vehicle  
 
     
   8 . The composition of  claim 7  wherein said MBL is bound to glycosyl moieties of a glycoprotein nanoparticle.  
 
     
   9 . The composition of  claim 8  wherein said nanoparticle is formed from biocompatible polymer.  
 
     
   10 . The composition of  claim 9  wherein said nanoparticle is formed from poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid.  
 
     
   11 . A method for producing recombinant MBL, said method comprising the steps of: 
 (a) providing a transformant host cell which comprises a DNA construct comprising a cloning vector which comprises a sequence of a human MBL coding region, said sequence sufficient to express recombinant MBL in said transformed host cell, said recombinant MBL exhibiting specific binding to MBL-binding glycosylated protein and activation of complement in the presence of MBL-binding glycosylated protein and serine proteases;    (b) expressing in a culture system said sequence of human MBL coding region to produce recombinant MBL;    (c) purifying the recombinant MBL produced in step (b).    
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 11  wherein said transformant host is CHO cell line (MDL/D1-3) deposited to the International Depository Authority (KCTC 10472BP).  
 
     
   13 . The method of  claim 11  wherein said step of purification involves 
 (a) contacting said recombinant MBL with MBL-binding glycosylated protein;  
 (b) isolating the bound recombinant MBL-MBL binding glycosylated protein;  
 (c) releasing recombinant MBL from said MBL-binding glycosylated protein; and  
 (d) collecting the released recombinant MBL.  
 
 
     
   14 . The method of  claim 13  wherein said MBL-binding glycosylated protein is selected from the group consisting of pre S glycosylated viral envelope protein, glycosylated bacterial protein, glycosylated fungal protein ,and any artificially glycosylated protein.  
 
     
   15 . A method of preparing a complex of recombinant MBL and a glycoprotein nanoparticle which involves binding said recombinant MBL to the glycosylated moieties of said glycoprotein nanoparticle.  
 
     
   16 . A method of triggering complement activation in a subject, said method comprising the step of administering to a subject in need a composition which comprises an effective amount of an MBL complex, wherein said MBL complex comprises recombinant MBL conjugated to the glycosyl moieties of glycoprotein nanoparticles.  
 
     
   17 . The method of  claim 16  wherein said subject requires treatment for systemic infection.  
 
     
   18 . A method of triggering complement activation in a subject, said method comprising the step of administering to a subject in need a composition which comprises an effective amount of glycoprotein nanoparticles.  
 
     
   19 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said nanoparticle is formed from biocompatible polymer.  
 
     
   20 . The method of  claim 19  wherein said nanoparticle is formed from poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid.  
 
     
   21 . The method of  claim 18  wherein a glycoprotein moiety of the nanoparticle is selected from the group consisting of pre-S glycosylated viral envelope protein, glycosylated bacterial protein, glycosylated fungal protein, and any artificially glycosylated protein.  
 
     
   22 . A method of triggering complement activation in a subject, said method comprising the step of administering to a subject in need a composition which comprises an effective amount of an a glycosyl-nanoparticle complex, wherein said glycosyl moiety triggers complement activation in contact with MBL and in which said glycosyl moiety is selected from the group consisting of of mannose, N-acetyl glucosamine-rich oligosaccharides, glucans, lipophosphoglycans, glycoinositol-phospholipids with mannose, glucose, fucose, or N-acetylglucosamine as N-terminal hexoses.  
 
     
   23 . A method of triggering complement activation in a subject in need, said method comprising the step of administering to said subject a “massive” amount of MBL. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
