
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A chimeric antigen for eliciting an immune response, said chimeric antigen comprising an immune response domain and a target binding domain, wherein the immune response domain comprises a hepatitis C (HCV) antigen and the target binding domain comprises an antibody fragment. 
 
     
   2 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the antibody fragment is xenotypic antibody fragment. 
 
     
   3 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the chimeric antigen elicits a humoral immune response, a cellular immune response, or a both humoral immune response and a cellular immune response. 
 
     
   4 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the chimeric antigen elicits a Th1 immune response, a Th2 immune response or both a Th1 and a Th2 immune response. 
 
     
   5 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the immune response is an in vivo immune response. 
 
     
   6 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the immune response domain comprises more than one protein. 
 
     
   7 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the immune response domain comprises one or more immunogenic portions of one or more proteins selected from the group consisting of a HCV Core (1-191) protein, a HCV Core (1-177) protein, a HCV p7 protein, a HCV E1 protein, a HCV E2 protein, a HCV E1-E2 protein, a HCV NS3 protein, a HCV NS4B protein, and a HCV NS5A protein. 
 
     
   8 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the target binding domain is capable of binding to an antigen presenting cell (APC). 
 
     
   9 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 2 , wherein the antibody fragment is a Fc fragment. 
 
     
   10 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , further comprising one or more of a 6×His tag, a protease cleavage site, and a linker for linking the immune response domain and the target binding domain. 
 
     
   11 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 10 , wherein the linker is selected from the group consisting of leucine zippers, biotin bound to avidin, and a covalent peptide linkage. 
 
     
   12 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the chimeric antigen is glycosylated. 
 
     
   13 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the chimeric antigen is mannose glycosylated. 
 
     
   14 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 1 , wherein the antibody fragment comprises an immunoglobulin heavy chain fragment. 
 
     
   15 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 14 , wherein the immunoglobulin heavy chain fragment comprises a hinge region. 
 
     
   16 . The chimeric antigen of  claim 14 , wherein the immunoglobulin heavy chain fragment comprises all or a part of an antibody fragment selected from the group consisting of the C H 1, the hinge region, the C H 2 domain, and the C H 3 domain. 
 
     
   17 . A method of delivering an antigen to an antigen presenting cell, the method comprising administering to the antigen presenting cell a chimeric antigen of  claim 1 . 
 
     
   18 . The method of  claim 17 , wherein the antigen presenting cell is a dendritic cell. 
 
     
   19 . A method of activating an antigen presenting cell, the method comprising contacting the antigen presenting cell with a chimeric antigen of  claim 1 . 
 
     
   20 . The method of  claim 19 , wherein the contacting takes place ex vivo. 
 
     
   21 . The method of  claim 19 , wherein the contacting takes places in vivo. 
 
     
   22 . The method of  claim 21 , wherein the contacting takes place in a human. 
 
     
   23 . The method of  claim 21 , wherein the method comprises administering to a subject a composition comprising a chimeric antigen comprising an immune response domain and a target binding domain, wherein the immune response domain comprises a hepatitis C(HCV) antigen and the target binding domain comprises an antibody fragment, and wherein the antigen presenting cell is in the subject. 
 
     
   24 . The method of  claim 20 , wherein the contacting results in a humoral immune response, a cellular immune response, or both a humoral immune response and a cellular immune response. 
 
     
   25 . The method of  claim 24  wherein the cellular immune response is one or more of a Th1 response, a Th2 response, and a CTL response. 
 
     
   26 . The method of  claim 23 , wherein the subject has, or is likely to have, an immune-treatable condition. 
 
     
   27 . The method of  claim 26 , wherein the immune-treatable condition is an acute infection. 
 
     
   28 . The method of  claim 26 , wherein the immune-treatable condition is a chronic infection. 
 
     
   29 . The method of  claim 28 , wherein the chronic infection is a chronic hepatitis C viral infection. 
 
     
   30 . The method of  claim 26 , wherein the immune-treatable condition is a hepatitis C viral infection and the immune response domain comprises one or more antigenic portions of one or more proteins selected from the group consisting of a HCV Core (1-191) protein, a HCV Core (1-177) protein, a HCV E1 protein, a HCV E2 protein, a HCV E1-E2 protein, a HCV P7 protein, a HCV NS3 protein, a HCV NS4B protein, and a HCV NS5 A protein. 
 
     
   31 . The method of  claim 23 , wherein the subject is vaccinated against a viral infection. 
 
     
   32 . The method of  claim 23 , wherein the subject is prophylactically vaccinated against a viral infection. 
 
     
   33 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the subject is therapeutically vaccinated against an existing viral infection. 
 
     
   34 . A method of producing a chimeric antigen comprising:
 (a) providing a microorganism or a cell, the microorganism or cell comprising a polynucleotide that encodes a chimeric antigen; and   (b) culturing said microorganism or cell under conditions whereby the chimeric antigen is expressed.   
 
     
   35 . The method of  claim 34 , wherein the microorganism or cell is a eukaryotic microorganism or cell. 
 
     
   36 . The method of  claim 34 , wherein the cell is a yeast cell, a plant cell or an insect cell. 
 
     
   37 . The method of  claim 34 , wherein the chimeric antigen is post-translationally modified to comprise glycosylation. 
 
     
   38 . The method of  claim 34 , wherein the chimeric antigen is post-translationally modified to comprise a mannose glycosylation. 
 
     
   39 . A polynucleotide encoding a chimeric antigen, said polynucleotide comprising a first polynucleotide portion encoding an immune response domain and a second polynucleotide portion encoding a target binding domain, wherein the target binding domain comprises an antibody fragment. 
 
     
   40 . The polynucleotide of  claim 39 , wherein the antibody fragment is a xenotypic antibody fragment. 
 
     
   41 . The polynucleotide of  claim 39 , wherein the polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of the nucleotide sequences set forth in SEQ ED NOs:39 and 41-51. 
 
     
   42 . The polynucleotide of  claim 39 , wherein the polynucleotide encodes a chimeric antigen that is at least 90% identical to an entire amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs:40 and 52-62. 
 
     
   43 . The polynucleotide of  claim 39 , wherein the polynucleotide selectively hybridizes under stringent conditions to a polynucleotide having a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of nucleotide sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs:39 and 41-51. 
 
     
   44 . A vector comprising the polynucleotide of  claim 39 . 
 
     
   45 . The vector of  claim 44 , wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to a transcriptional regulatory element (TRE). 
 
     
   46 . A microorganism or cell comprising the polynucleotide of  claim 39 . 
 
     
   47 . An article of manufacture comprising a chimeric antigen of  claim 1  and instructions for administering the chimeric antigen to a subject in need thereof. 
 
     
   48 . A pharmaceutical composition comprising a chimeric antigen of  claim 1  and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. 
 
     
   49 . A method of producing a chimeric antigen comprising:
 (a) providing a microorganism or a cell, the microorganism or cell comprising a polynucleotide that encodes a target binding domain-linker molecule, wherein the target binding domain-linker molecule comprises a target binding domain bound to a linker molecule;   (b) culturing said microorganism or cell under conditions whereby the target binding domain-linker molecule is expressed; and   (c) contacting the target binding domain-linker molecule and an immune response domain under conditions that allow for the binding of the linker to the immune response domain, the binding resulting in a chimeric antigen.   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
