
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 .- 45 . (canceled) 
 
     
   46 . A method of inhibiting cancer stem cell development in a subject comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a composition comprising a biotransformed fruit extract, wherein the biotransformed fruit extract is prepared by fermenting a fruit extract with a bacterial strain having all the characteristics of  Serratia vaccinii.    
 
     
   47 . (canceled) 
 
     
   48 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein the inhibition of cancer stem cell development inhibits cancer metastasis in the subject. 
 
     
   49 .- 50 . (canceled) 
 
     
   51 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein the cancer is brain cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, liver cancer, bladder cancer, melanoma or multiple myeloma. 
 
     
   52 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein the cancer is breast cancer, prostate cancer or melanoma. 
 
     
   53 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein the fruit extract is from one or more berries from the genus  Vaccinium.    
 
     
   54 .- 57 . (canceled) 
 
     
   58 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein the biotransformed fruit extract is characterized as having a total phenolic content at least two times greater than untransformed fruit extract. 
 
     
   59 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein the composition is administered orally to the subject. 
 
     
   60 . The method according to  claim 46 , wherein the composition is formulated as a pharmaceutical composition, a nutraceutical, a dietary supplement, a cosmetic preparation, a functional food or a beverage. 
 
     
   61 .- 71 . (canceled) 
 
     
   72 . A method of complementary therapy for the treatment of cancer comprising administering to a subject undergoing an anti-cancer treatment an effective amount of a composition comprising a biotransformed fruit extract, wherein the biotransformed extract is prepared by fermenting a fruit extract with a bacterial strain having all the characteristics of  Serratia vaccinii.    
 
     
   73 . The method according to  claim 72 , wherein the cancer is brain cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, liver cancer, bladder cancer, melanoma or multiple myeloma. 
 
     
   74 . The method according to  claim 72 , wherein the cancer is breast cancer, prostate cancer or melanoma. 
 
     
   75 .- 79 . (canceled) 
 
     
   80 . The method according to  claim 72 , wherein the biotransformed fruit extract is characterized as having a total phenolic content at least two times greater than untransformed fruit extract. 
 
     
   81 . The method according to  claim 72 , wherein the composition is administered orally to the subject. 
 
     
   82 . The method according to  claim 72 , wherein the composition is formulated as a pharmaceutical composition, a nutraceutical, a dietary supplement, a cosmetic preparation, a functional food or a beverage. 
 
     
   83 . A method of decreasing the risk of a subject developing cancer comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a composition comprising a biotransformed fruit extract, wherein the biotransformed extract is prepared by fermenting a fruit extract with a bacterial strain having all the characteristics of  Serratia vaccinii.    
 
     
   84 . The method according to  claim 82 , wherein the cancer is brain cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, liver cancer, bladder cancer, melanoma or multiple myeloma. 
 
     
   85 . The method according to  claim 82 , wherein the cancer is breast cancer, prostate cancer or melanoma. 
 
     
   86 . The method according  claim 82 , wherein the fruit extract is from one or more berries from the genus  Vaccinium.    
 
     
   87 .- 93 . (canceled) 
 
     
   94 . A method for inhibiting expression of miR-210 miRNA in a cancer cell comprising contacting the cancer cell with a composition comprising a biotransformed fruit extract, wherein the biotransformed extract is prepared by fermenting a fruit extract with a bacterial strain having all the characteristics of  Serratia vaccinii.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
