
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A process for producing hydrogen by culturing a microorganism possessing the hydrogenase gene and having the lactic acid and succinic acid biogenetic pathways inactivated in its anaerobic metabolic pathway under anaerobic conditions in the presence of an organic substrate.  
 
     
   2 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism further possesses the formate dehydrogenase gene.  
 
     
   3 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism is a facultative anaerobic bacterium.  
 
     
   4 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 3 , wherein the facultative anaerobic bacterium is a transformant of  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
   5 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism possesses the inactivated lactate dehydrogenase gene and the inactivated at least one of the genes encoding the subunits which make up of the fumarate reductase.  
 
     
   6 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism is the W3110 ΔldhA ΔfrdBC strain of  Escherichia coli  (deposited with International Patent Organism Depositary Authority, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology of Japan under the accession No. FERM P-20737 and the international accession No. FERM BP-10726).  
 
     
   7 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 1 , wherein the microorganism is cultured under aerobic conditions and then further cultured under anaerobic conditions.  
 
     
   8 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 1 , wherein the organic substrate is saccharides.  
 
     
   9 . The process for producing hydrogen according to  claim 8 , wherein the saccharides are at least one kind selected from the group consisting of glucose, galactose, xylose, sucrose and fructose.  
 
     
   10 . The W3110 ΔldhA ΔfrdBC strain of  Escherichia coli  (deposited with International Patent Organism Depositary Authority, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology under accession No. FERM P-20737, and international accession No. FERM BP-10726). 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
