
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method for stably expressing a nucleic acid molecule in a C1 metabolizing microorganism comprising: 
 a) providing a C1 metabolizing microorganism having a tig region in the genome;    b) providing at least one nucleic acid molecule to be stably-expressed    c) integrating the at least one nucleic acid molecule of (b) into said tig region of the genome of said C1 metabolizing microorganism; and    d) growing the C1 metabolizing microorganism of c) under conditions whereby the at least one nucleic acid molecule is stably-expressed.    
 
     
   2 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is transcribed using the tig promoter.  
 
     
   3 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is operably integrated.  
 
     
   4 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the nucleic acid molecule comprises multiple tandem genes in a single fragment.  
 
     
   5 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is a gene.  
 
     
   6 . The method according  claim 5  wherein multiple unlinked genes are integrated at different positions within the tig region.  
 
     
   7 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated into the tig region downstream of the tig promoter.  
 
     
   8 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated into the tig region downstream of any gene of the tig region.  
 
     
   9 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated downstream of the tig open reading frame.  
 
     
   10 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated within the Ion open reading frame.  
 
     
   11 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated downstream of the clpP open reading frame.  
 
     
   12 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated downstream of the clpX open reading frame.  
 
     
   13 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is integrated downstream of the himA open reading frame.  
 
     
   14 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the tig region is defined according the sequence given in SEQ ID NO:1.  
 
     
   15 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule is selected from the group consisting of genes encoding: transaldolase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, keto deoxy phosphogluconate aldolase, phosphoglucomutase, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, phosphofructokinase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydratase, 6-phosphogluconate-6-phosphate-1 dehydrogenase, dxs, dxr, ispA, ispD, ispE, ispF, crtE, crtX, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtZ, crtD, crtO, crtW, crtidi, genes encoding limonene synthase, ugp, gumD, wza, espB, espM, waaE, espV, gumH, genes encoding glycosyltransferase genes, aroG, aroB, aroQ, aroE, aroK, 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase, aroC, trpE, trpD, trpC, trpB, pheA, tyrAc, pds, phaC, phaE, efe, pdc, adh, pinene synthase, bornyl synthase, phellandrene synthase, cineole synthase, sabinene synthase, and taxadiene synthase.  
 
     
   16 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule encodes at least one enzyme in the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway.  
 
     
   17 . The method according to  claim 16  wherein the at least one at least one enzyme in the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is selected from the group consisting of: geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase; lycopene cyclase, phytoene desaturase, phytoene synthase, β-carotene hydroxylase, β-carotene ketolase and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase.  
 
     
   18 . The method according to  claim 1  wherein the C1 metabolizing microorganism is selected from the group consisting of methanotrophs and methylotrophs.  
 
     
   19 . The method according to  claim 18  wherein C1 metabolizing microorganism is selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Mehtylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium, Methanomonas, Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas , and  Pseudomonas.    
 
     
   20 . The method according to  claim 19  wherein the C1 metabolizing microorganism is  Methylomonas  16a.  
 
     
   21 . The method according to  claim 20  wherein the C1 metabolizing microorganism has the ATCC designation ATCC PTA 2402.  
 
     
   22 . A method for the production of a carotenoid compound comprising: 
 a) providing a C1 metabolizing microorganism comprising a gene cluster comprising genes encoding the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway operably inserted into the tig region of the genome;    b) contacting the C1 metabolizing microorganism of (a) with a C1 carbon substrate selected from the group consisting of methane and/or methanol under conditions where said gene cluster is expressed and at least one carotenoid compound is produced; and    c) optionally recovering said carotenoid compound of (b).    
 
     
   23 . The method according to  claim 22  wherein the C1 metabolizing microorganism is selected from the group consisting of  Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Mehtylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylocyctis, Methylomicrobium, Methanomonas, Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Bacillus, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas , and  Pseudomonas.    
 
     
   24 . The method according to  claim 23  wherein the C1 metabolizing microorganism has the ATCC designation ATCC PTA 2402.  
 
     
   25 . The method according to  claim 22  wherein the genes encoding the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway encode at least one enzyme selected from the group consisting of: geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase; lycopene cyclase, phytoene desaturase, phytoene synthase, β-carotene hydroxylase, β-carotene ketolase and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase.  
 
     
   26 . The method according to  claim 22  wherein said carotenoid compound is selected from the group consisting of antheraxanthin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxnthin, aanthaxanthin, capsorubrin, alpha-cryptoxanthin alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, epsilon-carotene, echinenone, gamma-carotene, zeta-carotene, alpha-cryptoxanthin, diatoxanthin, 7,8-didehydroastaxanthin, fucoxanthin, fucoxanthinol, isorenieratene, lactucaxanthin, lutein, lycopene, neoxanthin, neurosporene, hydroxyneurosporene, peridinin, phytoene, rhodopin, rhodopin glucoside, siphonaxanthin, spheroidene, spheroidenone, spirilloxanthin, uriolide, uriolide acetate, violaxanthin, zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside, zeaxanthin, and canthaxanthin.  
 
     
   27 . A C1 metabolizing microorganism comprising at least one nucleic acid molecule integrated in the tig region of the genome.  
 
     
   28 . The C1 metabolizing microorganism according to  claim 27  wherein the at least one nucleic acid molecule lacks an antibiotic selection marker.  
 
     
   29 . A method for identifying an integration site in a genome for high level expression of a nucleic acid molecule in a microorganism comprising: 
 a) providing a microorganism;    b) providing an integration vector comprising a gene cluster encoding at least the following enzymes geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase, zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase; lycopene cyclase, phytoene desaturase, phytoene synthase, β-carotene hydroxylase, β-carotene ketolase and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase, wherein said integration vector is designed to facilitate the integration of the gene cluster in to the genome of the microorganism;    c) contacting the integration vector of (b) with the microorganism of (a) under conditions which allow for random integration of the gene cluster into the microorganism genome to create random tranformants;    d) screening the random transformants for expression of the gene cluster on the basis of the production of a C 40  carotenoid; and    e) identifying sites of integration of the gene cluster into the genome of the random transformants.   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
