
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method for the treatment of a human hematologic malignancy in a mammal, wherein said human hematologic malignancy expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   2 . The method of  claim 1  wherein the hematologic malignancy is selected from the group consisting of Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Chronic Lymphocyte Leukemia (CLL), Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) and Multiple Myeloma. 
 
     
   3 . The method of  claim 1  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   4 . The method of  claim 3  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   5 . The method of  claim 1  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
     
   6 . The method of  claim 1  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
     
   7 . The use of monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of a human hematologic malignancy in a mammal, wherein said hematologic malignancy expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   8 . The use of  claim 7  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   9 . The use of  claim 8  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   10 . The use of  claim 7  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01. 
 
     
   11 . The use of  claim 7  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01. 
 
     
   12 . A method for the treatment of a human hematologic malignancy in a mammal, wherein said hematologic malignancy expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof; in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   13 . The method of  claim 12  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB is conjugated to said chemotherapeutic agent. 
 
     
   14 . The method of  claim 13  wherein said chemotherapeutic agent is a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   15 . The method of  claim 13  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   16 . The method of  claim 12  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01. 
 
     
   17 . The method of  claim 12  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01. 
 
     
   18 . A composition effective for the treatment of a human hematologic malignancy comprising in combination:
 an isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB produced by a hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01; and   a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier;   wherein said composition is effective for treating said human hematologic malignancy.   
 
     
   19 . The composition of  claim 18 , further including a conjugate of said isolated monoclonal antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; 
 
     
   20 . An assay kit for detecting the presence of a human hematologic malignancy, wherein said human hematologic malignancy expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, the kit comprising the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141204-01 or a CDMAB thereof, and means for detecting whether the monoclonal antibody, or a CDMAB thereof, is bound to a polypeptide whose presence, at a particular cut-off level, is diagnostic of said presence of said human hematologic malignancy. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
