
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A process for obtaining glycolic acid comprising: 
 (a) providing a feed stream comprising ammonium glycolate;    (b) removing free water from the feed stream to produce a substantially anhydrous salt of ammonium glycolate; and    (c) heating the product of step b) to a temperature of about 100째 C. to about 140째 C. under a vacuum sufficient to remove ammonia whereby a first product mixture comprising glycolic acid is produced.    
 
     
   2 . The process of  claim 1  further comprising the steps of: 
 (d) adding water to the first product mixture of step (c) to form a rehydrated product mixture; said rehydrated product mixture comprising glycolic acid, glycolic acid oligomers, glycolamide, glycolic acid oligomer ammonium salts, and unreacted ammonium glycolate; and    (e) heating the rehydrated product mixture of step (d) under conditions whereby a portion of the glycolic acid oligomers are hydrolyzed into free glycolic acid, wherein a second product mixture comprising glycolic acid is formed.    
 
     
   3 . The process of  claim 1  or  claim 2  additionally comprising the step of isolating the glycolic acid from the first product mixture of step (c) or the second product mixture of step (e).  
 
     
   4 . The process of  claim 3  wherein the glycolic acid is isolated using one or more processes selected from the group consisting of reactive solvent extraction, crystallization, cationic ion exchange, anionic ion exchange, electrodialysis, alcoholysis, polymerization, and esterification.  
 
     
   5 . The process according to  claim 1  wherein the water is removed in step (b) by vacuum distillation, evaporation, or lyophilization.  
 
     
   6 . The process of  claim 1  wherein the substantially anhydrous salt is heated to a temperature from about 100째 C. to less than about 140째 C. under a vacuum wherein the vacuum is about 0.1 mm Hg to about 350 mm Hg absolute pressure.  
 
     
   7 . The process of  claim 1  wherein at least 90% of the free water in the aqueous reaction solution is removed.  
 
     
   8 . The process of  claim 7  wherein at least 95% of the free water in the aqueous reaction solution is removed.  
 
     
   9 . The process of  claim 8  wherein at least 99% of the free water in the aqueous reaction solution is removed.  
 
     
   10 . The process of  claim 1  or  claim 2  wherein the combined yield of glycolic and glycolic acid dimer is at least 6%.  
 
     
   11 . The process of  claim 1  wherein the feed stream of (a) is obtained by enzymatic hydrolysis of glycolonitrile. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
