
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . The isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03. 
 
     
   2 . An antibody-ligand of the isolated monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 . 
 
     
   3 . A humanized version of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
     
   4 . An antibody-ligand of the humanized antibody of  claim 3 . 
 
     
   5 . A chimeric version of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
     
   6 . An antibody-ligand of the chimeric antibody of  claim 5 . 
 
     
   7 . The isolated antibody or antibody-ligand thereof, of any one of  claims 1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  5  or  6  conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells. 
 
     
   8 . The isolated hybridoma cell line deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03. 
 
     
   9 . A method for initiating antibody induced cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor comprising:
 providing a tissue sample from said human tumor;   providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 0512-06-03, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03, the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03, or an antibody-ligand thereof, which antibody-ligand is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen; and   contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or said antibody-ligand thereof with said tissue sample;   wherein binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or said antibody-ligand thereof with said tissue sample induces cytotoxicity.   
 
     
   10 . A method of treating a human tumor susceptible to antibody induced cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antibody-ligand thereof, which antibody-ligand is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or said antibody-ligand thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   11 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 11  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   13 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   14 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   15 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   16 . The method of  claim 10  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   17 . A monoclonal antibody capable of specific binding to the same epitope or epitopes as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03. 
 
     
   18 . A method of treating a human tumor in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antibody-ligand thereof, which antibody-ligand is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   19 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   20 . The method of  claim 19  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   21 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   22 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   23 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   24 . The method of  claim 18  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   25 . A method of treating a human tumor in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antibody-ligand thereof, which antibody-ligand is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
   26 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   27 . The method of  claim 26  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   28 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   29 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   30 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   31 . The method of  claim 25  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   32 . A binding assay to determine a presence of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor, which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line AR90A56.11 having IDAC Accession No. 051206-03, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03, comprising:
 providing a tissue sample from said human tumor;   providing at least one of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or an antibody-ligand thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line AR90A56.11 having IDAC Accession No. 051206-03;   contacting at least one of said provided antibodies or an antibody-ligand thereof with said tissue sample; and   determining binding of said at least one provided antibody or antibody-ligand thereof with said tissue sample;   whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated.   
 
     
   33 . Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human tumor burden, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antibody-ligand thereof, which antibody-ligand is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human tumor burden. 
 
     
   34 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   35 . The method of  claim 34  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   36 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   37 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   38 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   39 . The method of  claim 33  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   40 . Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human tumor burden, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antibody-ligand thereof, which antibody-ligand is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof; in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human tumor burden. 
 
     
   41 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
   42 . The method of  claim 41  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
   43 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof activates complement. 
 
     
   44 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or antibody-ligand thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
   45 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   46 . The method of  claim 40  wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric version of the isolated monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   47 . A composition effective for treating a human cancerous tumor comprising in combination:
 an antibody or antibody-ligand of any one of  claims 1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8 , or 17;   a conjugate of said antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; and   a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier;   wherein said composition is effective for treating said human cancerous tumor.   
 
     
   48 . An assay kit for detecting the presence of a human cancerous tumor, wherein said human cancerous tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antibody-ligand thereof, which antibody-ligand is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, the kit comprising the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 051206-03 or an antibody-ligand thereof, and means for detecting whether the isolated monoclonal antibody, or an antibody-ligand thereof, is bound to a polypeptide whose presence, at a particular cut-off level, is diagnostic of said presence of said human cancerous tumor.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
