
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A monoclonal antibody specifically recognizing a human βig-h3 protein, wherein the epitope of the monoclonal antibody is the H1 region of the fourth fas-1 domain of the human βig-h3 protein. 
 
     
   2 . The monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 , wherein the H1 region of the fourth fas-1 domain of the human βig-h3 protein has an amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 3. 
 
     
   3 . The monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 , which has no cross-reaction with a rat or mouse βig-h3 protein. 
 
     
   4 . The monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 , which is produced by hybridoma 7A6-a (Accession No: KCTC 10705BP). 
 
     
   5 . The monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 , which inhibits the cell adhesion activity of the human βig-h3 protein. 
 
     
   6 . Hybridoma 7A6-a (Accession No: KCTC 10705BP) that produces the monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 . 
 
     
   7 . A method for preparing a monoclonal antibody to human βig-h3, the method comprising the step of:
 injecting the hybridoma of  claim 6  into the abdominal cavity of a mouse;   obtaining ascites from the abdominal cavity; and   isolating the monoclonal antibody from the obtained ascites.   
 
     
   8 . A kit for diagnosing a disease associated with, an increase or a decrease in βig-h3, the kit comprising the monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 . 
 
     
   9 . The kit of  claim 8 , wherein the disease is selected from the group consisting of kidney disease, liver disease and rheumatoid disease. 
 
     
   10 . A method for diagnosing a disease associated with an increase or a decrease in the expression level of βig-h3 in a subject, which comprises the steps of:
 (a) contacting a test sample with the monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 ;   (b) detecting a product of immune reaction between the test sample and the monoclonal antibody to measure the expression level of βig-h3; and   (c) comparing the expression level of βig-h3 measured in the step (b) with the expression level of βig-h3 in a control sample.   
 
     
   11 . The method of  claim 10 , wherein the method for diagnosing is selected from the group consisting of immunocytochemistry and immunohistochemistry, radioimmunoassay, enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA), immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, Farr assay, precipitin reaction, turbidimetry, immunodiffusion, counter-current electrophoresis, single radical immunodiffusion, protein chip, rapid assay, microarray, immunofluorescence and immunosorbent assay. 
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 10 , wherein the disease is selected from the group consisting of kidney disease, liver disease and rheumatoid disease. 
 
     
   13 . A method for inhibiting the cell adhesion activity of βig-h3, comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 . 
 
     
   14 . A method for inhibiting cancer metastasis, comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 . 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
