
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 - 30 . (canceled) 
 
     
   31 . A method for modulating the secretion of an inflammation-associated cytokine in a subject, the method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a FEX-2 polypeptide specific ligand except phosphatidylserine. 
 
     
   32 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the cytokine is secreted from phagocytes. 
 
     
   33 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein modulating the secretion of the cytokine is stimulating the secretion of anti-inflammatory cytokine and/or inhibiting the secretion of inflammatory cytokine. 
 
     
   34 . The method of  claim 33 , wherein the anti-inflammatory cytokine is selected from the group consisting of TGF-β, IL-10, IL-4 and IL-13. 
 
     
   35 . The method of  claim 33 , wherein the inflammatory cytokine is selected from the group consisting of TNF-α, IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-18 and MIP 2 . 
 
     
   36 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the FEX-2 polypeptide is derived from a mammal. 
 
     
   37 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the FEX-2 polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO. 1. 
 
     
   38 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the FEX-2 polypeptide is expressed on the surface of phagocytes. 
 
     
   39 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the ligand is selected from the group consisting of phosphatidylserine derivatives and anti-FEX-2 antibody. 
 
     
   40 . The method of  claim 39 , wherein the phosphatidylserine derivative is phospho-L-serine. 
 
     
   41 . The method of  claim 39 , wherein the anti-FEX-2 antibody is a polyclonal or monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   42 . The method of  claim 41 , wherein the monoclonal antibody is produced by a hybridoma (accession number: KCTC 10639BP). 
 
     
   43 . A method for treating or preventing an inflammatory disease, the method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a FEX-2 polypeptide specific ligand except phosphatidylserine. 
 
     
   44 . The method of  claim 43 , wherein the FEX-polypeptide is derived from a mammal. 
 
     
   45 . The method of  claim 43 , wherein the FEX-2 polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
     
   46 . The method of  claim 43 , wherein the FEX-2 polypeptide is expressed on the surface of phagocytes. 
 
     
   47 . The method of  claim 43 , wherein the ligand is selected from the group consisting of phosphatidylserine derivatives and anti-FEX-2 antibody. 
 
     
   48 . The method of  claim 47 , wherein the phosphatidylserine derivative is phospho-L-serine. 
 
     
   49 . The method of  claim 47 , wherein the anti-FEX-2 antibody is a polyclonal or monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
   50 . The method of  claim 49 , wherein the monoclonal antibody is produced by the hybridoma (accession number: KCTC 10639BP). 
 
     
   51 . The method of  claim 43 , wherein the inflammatory disease is selected from the group consisting of inflammation, inflammatory bowl disease, diabetic ocular disease, peritonitis, osteomyelitis, cellulitis, meningitis, encephalitis, pancreatitis, trauma causing shock, bronchial asthma, rhinitis, sinusitis, otitis media, pneumonia, gastritis, enteritis, cystic fibrosis, apoplexy, bronchitis, bronchiolitis, hepatitis, nephritis, arthritis, gout, spondylitis, Reiter's syndrome, polyarteritis nodosa, hypersensitivity vasculitis, Wegener's granulomatosis, polymyalgia rheumatica, giant cell arteritis, calcium crystal deposition arthropathy, pseudogout, nonarticular rheumatism, bursitis, tenosynovitis, epicondylitis (Tennis elbow), neuropathic joint disease (Charcot's joint), hemarthrosis, Henoch-Schonlein Purpura, hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, multicentric reticulohistiocytoma, scoliosis, hemochromoatosis, sickle cell disease and other hemoglobinopathies, hyperlipoproteinemia, hypogammaglobulinemia, hyperparathyroidism, acromegaly, familial mediterranean fever, Behcet's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, relapsing fever, psoriasis, multiple sclerosis, septicemia, septic shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, multiple organ failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, acute lung injury and broncho-pulmonary dysplasia. 
 
     
   52 . A method for screening an agent for modulating the secretion of an inflammation-associated cytokine, the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) culturing a phagocyte expressing FEX-2 with a test agent; and   (b) measuring change in the level of cytokine secreted from the phagocyte cultured with the test agent relative to the level of cytokine secreted from the phagocyte cultured without the test agent.   
 
     
   53 . The method of  claim 52 , wherein the cytokine secreted from the phagocyte in the step (b) is TGF-β or TNF-α. 
 
     
   54 . A method for identifying an agent for treating or preventing an inflammatory disease, the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) culturing a phagocyte expressing FEX-2 with a test agent;   (b) measuring change in the level of cytokine secreted from the phagocyte cultured with the test agent relative to the level of cytokine secreted from phagocyte cultured without the test agent;   (c) administering the test agent selected in the step (b), which modulates the level of the cytokine selected from the phagocyte, to an animal suffering from an inflammatory disease, and determining whether the test agent shows a therapeutic effect in the animal.   
 
     
   55 . The method of  claim 54 , wherein the cytokine secreted from the phagocyte in the step (b) is TGF-β or TNF-α. 
 
     
   56 . The method of  claim 54 , wherein the test agent used in the step (c) has the activity to stimulate the secretion of anti-inflammatory cytokine and/or inhibit the secretion of inflammatory cytokine. 
 
     
   57 . Use of a FEX-2 polypeptide specific ligand except phosphatidylserine, for preparing a pharmaceutical composition for modulating the secretion of an inflammation-associated cytokine. 
 
     
   58 . Use of a FEX-2 polypeptide specific ligand except phosphatidylserine, for preparing a pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing an inflammatory disease. 
 
     
   59 . A pharmaceutical composition for modulating the secretion of an inflammation-associated cytokine, the composition comprising a FEX-2 polypeptide specific ligand except phosphatidylserine, as an active ingredient. 
 
     
   60 . A pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing an inflammatory disease, the composition comprising a FEX-2 polypeptide specific ligand except phosphatidylserine, as an active ingredient.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
