
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . An isolated  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  microorganism having enhanced productivity of lactic acid, wherein the microorganism is modified so that:
 a) the activity of pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) of the microorganism is decreased compared to that of a non-modified lactic acid-producing strain; and   b) the activities of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALD) and acetyl-CoA synthetase (ACS) of the microorganism are enhanced compared to that of the non-modified lactic acid-producing strain.   
 
     
   2 . The microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein the pyruvate decarboxylase is at least one selected from the group consisting of PDC 1, PDC5, and PDC6. 
 
     
   3 . The microorganism according to  claim 2 , wherein the microorganism is modified to:
 i) inactivate PDC1 activity and decrease PDC5 activity; or   ii) decrease PDC1 activity and inactivate PDC 5 activity.   
 
     
   4 . The microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein the aldehyde dehydrogenase is at least one selected from the group consisting of ALD2 and ALD3, and the acetyl-CoA synthetase is ACS1. 
 
     
   5 . The microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) is further inactivated. 
 
     
   6 . The microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein D-lactic acid dehydrogenase (DLD) is further inactivated. 
 
     
   7 . A method for producing lactic acid comprising:
 a) culturing the microorganism according to  claim 1  in the culture medium; and   b) recovering lactic acid from the culture medium or the microorganism in step a).   
 
     
   8 . A method for producing lactic acid comprising:
 a) culturing the microorganism according to  claim 2  in the culture medium; and   b) recovering lactic acid from the culture medium or the microorganism in step a).   
 
     
   9 . A method for producing lactic acid comprising:
 a) culturing the microorganism according to  claim 3  in the culture medium; and   b) recovering lactic acid from the culture medium or the microorganism in step a).   
 
     
   10 . A method for producing lactic acid comprising:
 a) culturing the microorganism according to  claim 4  in the culture medium; and   b) recovering lactic acid from the culture medium or the microorganism in step a).   
 
     
   11 . A method for producing lactic acid comprising:
 a) culturing the microorganism according to  claim 5  in the culture medium; and   b) recovering lactic acid from the culture medium or the microorganism in step a).   
 
     
   12 . A method for producing lactic acid comprising:
 a) culturing the microorganism according to  claim 6  in the culture medium; and   b) recovering lactic acid from the culture medium or the microorganism in step a).   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
