
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
   1 . A method of inhibiting proliferation of prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-expressing cancer cells, the method comprising:
 contacting PSMA-expressing cancer cells with an antiandrogen, an mTOR inhibitor or prednisone; and   contacting the PSMA-expressing cancer cells with a PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate or a PSMA ligand-cytotoxic agent conjugate.   
 
     
   2 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA ligand of the conjugate comprises an antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, that binds specifically PSMA. 
 
     
   3 - 11 . (canceled) 
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA ligand of the conjugate comprises a small molecule ligand that binds specifically PSMA. 
 
     
   13 - 15 . (canceled) 
 
     
   16 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the anticancer agent comprises an auristatin, tubulysin, a pyrrolobenzodiazepine dimer, calicheamicin, colchicine, ispinesib, combrestatin A4, maytansinoid DM1, maytansinoid DM4, doxorubicin, or a cytotoxic radionuclide. 
 
     
   17 - 18 . (canceled) 
 
     
   19 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate comprises BIND-014. 
 
     
   20 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the compound that increases cell surface expression of PSMA is an antiandrogen. 
 
     
   21 - 23 . (canceled) 
 
     
   24 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the antiandrogen is abiraterone, enzalutamide, nilutamide, flutamide, bicalutamide, ARN 509, galeterone or orteronel. 
 
     
   25 - 26 . (canceled) 
 
     
   27 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the step of contacting the PSMA-expressing cancer cells with the antiandrogen and the step of contacting the PSMA-expressing cancer cells with the PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate are concurrent. 
 
     
   28 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the step of contacting the PSMA-expressing cancer cells with the antiandrogen and the step of contacting the PSMA-expressing cancer cells with the PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate are sequential. 
 
     
   29 - 30 . (canceled) 
 
     
   31 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA-expressing cancer cells are in contact with the antiandrogen for at least 3 days. 
 
     
   32 - 34 . (canceled) 
 
     
   35 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA-expressing cancer cells comprise androgen-independent PSMA-expressing cancer cells. 
 
     
   36 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA-expressing cancer cells comprise PSMA-expressing cancer cells insensitive to antiandrogen therapy. 
 
     
   37 . (canceled) 
 
     
   38 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA-expressing cancer cells are of a tumor. 
 
     
   39 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA-expressing cancer cells are PSMA-expressing prostate cancer cells. 
 
     
   40 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA-expressing cancer cells are PSMA-expressing non-prostate cancer cells. 
 
     
   41 . (canceled) 
 
     
   42 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the PSMA-expressing cancer cells are of a subject. 
 
     
   43 - 47 . (canceled) 
 
     
   48 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the antiandrogen is enzalutamide, abiraterone or ARN 509, and the PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate is a PSMA ADC. 
 
     
   49 - 87 . (canceled) 
 
     
   88 . A method of specific delivery of a cytotoxic agent to PSMA-expressing cells in a subject, comprising:
 administering to a subject a compound that increases cell surface expression of PSMA; and   administering to the subject a PSMA ligand-cytotoxic agent conjugate.   
 
     
   89 - 136 . (canceled) 
 
     
   137 . A composition comprising (a) a compound that increases cell surface expression of PSMA and a PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate or PSMA ligand-cytotoxic agent conjugate, or (b) prednisone and a PSMA ligand conjugate. 
 
     
   138 - 165 . (canceled) 
 
     
   166 . A kit comprising:
 a container containing prednisone or a compound that increases cell surface expression of PSMA of a PSMA-expressing cell; and   a container containing a PSMA ligand conjugate or PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate or PSMA ligand-cytotoxic agent conjugate.   
 
     
   167 - 245 . (canceled) 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
