
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A composition comprising a TNFR25 agonist as an immune modulator. 
 
     
   2 . The composition of  claim 1 , wherein the TNFR25 agonist comprises antibodies, ligands, aptamers, oligonucleotides, polynucleotides, peptides, proteins, organic molecules or inorganic molecules. 
 
     
   3 . The composition of  claim 1 , wherein the TNFR25 agonist is an antibody specific for TNFR25. 
 
     
   4 . The composition of  claim 1  further comprising the TNFR25 agonist and a vaccine. 
 
     
   5 . A method of modulating an antigen specific immune response in vivo, comprising:
 administering to a patient, a therapeutically effective amount of an agent and an agonistic anti-TNFR25 antibody; and,   modulating an antigen specific immune response in vivo.   
 
     
   6 . The method of  claim 5 , wherein the agonistic anti-TNFR25 antibody up-regulates an agent-induced immune response as compared to the agent-induced immune response in the absence of the agonistic anti-TNFR25 antibody. 
 
     
   7 . The method of  claim 5 , wherein the anti-TNFR25 is administered to a patient prior to, concurrently with, or after administration of the agent. 
 
     
   8 . The method of  claim 7 , wherein the agent induces an antigen specific immune response. 
 
     
   9 . The method of  claim 8 , wherein anti-TNFR25 antibody decreases or prevents generation of antigen specific Treg cells. 
 
     
   10 . The method of  claim 8 , wherein the agent is a vaccine. 
 
     
   11 . The method of  claim 5 , wherein the agent is a tumor vaccine and administration of the anti-TNFR25 antibody increases an anti-tumor immune response as compared to the anti-tumor immune response in the absence of the anti-TNFR25 antibody. 
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 5 , wherein the agent is an anti-HIV vaccine and administration of the anti-TNFR25 antibody enhances an anti-HIV immune response as compared to the anti-HIV immune response in the absence of the anti-TNFR25 antibody. 
 
     
   13 . The method of  claim 12 , wherein the anti-HIV vaccine comprises HIV-gp96-Ig. 
 
     
   14 . The method of  claim 5 , wherein the anti-TNFR25 antibody enhances antigen specific immune responses to diseases or disorders comprising tumors, infectious disease organisms, parasites or fungus. 
 
     
   15 . A method of enhancing an antigen specific immune response comprising:
 obtaining a sample from a patient;   separating immune cells from the sample;   culturing the immune cells with a TNFR25 agonist and/or antigen;   expanding the immune cells and re-introducing said cells to a patient; and,   enhancing the antigen specific immune response.   
 
     
   16 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein the immune cells comprise antigen presenting cells, T cells, B cells and natural killer cells. 
 
     
   17 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein the TNFR25 agonist is an anti-TNFR25 antibody. 
 
     
   18 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein the immune cells are cultured with antigen, prior to, concurrently with or after contact with the TNFR25 agonist. 
 
     
   19 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein the administration of an anti-TNFR25 antibody enhances an immune response to a specific antigen as compared to the antigen specific immune response in the absence of the anti-TNFR25 antibody. 
 
     
   20 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein administration of the anti-TNFR25 antibody inhibits generation of antigen specific Treg cells induced by CD103 +  dendritic cells. 
 
     
   21 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein a specific antigen comprises at least one of: viral antigen(s), tumor antigen(s), parasitic antigen(s), bacterial antigen(s), protozoan antigen(s) or combinations thereof. 
 
     
   22 . A method of preventing or treating cancer, comprising:
 administering to a patient in need thereof, a tumor antigen, an anti-TNFR25 antibody; and,   preventing or treating cancer.   
 
     
   23 . The method of  claim 22 , wherein a tumor antigen is derived from a patient tumor comprising at least one of: tumor cell, tumor cell membranes, tumor proteins, tumor nucleic acids or combinations thereof. 
 
     
   24 . The method of  claim 22 , wherein the tumor antigen comprises a tumor vaccine. 
 
     
   25 . The method of  claim 22 , wherein the anti-TNFR25 antibody is administered in conjunction, prior to or after administration of a tumor antigen or vaccine. 
 
     
   26 . A method of prevent or treating a disease caused by a biological agent, comprising:
 administering to a patient in need thereof, a vaccine or a biological agent antigen, an anti-TNFR25 antibody; and,   prevent or treating a disease caused by a biological agent.   
 
     
   27 . The method of  claim 26 , wherein a biological agent antigen comprising at least one of:
 viral antigen(s), tumor antigen(s), parasitic antigen(s), bacterial antigen(s), protozoan antigen(s) or combinations thereof.   
 
     
   28 . The method of  claim 26 , wherein a biological agent antigen comprises a viral vaccine. 
 
     
   29 . The method of  claim 28 , wherein the viral vaccine is an HIV vaccine. 
 
     
   30 . The method of  claim 26 , wherein the anti-TNFR25 antibody is administered in conjunction, prior to or after administration of a biological agent antigen or vaccine. 
 
     
   31 . A method of enhancing an antigen specific immune response in vivo, comprising:
 administering to a patient in need thereof, an antigen, a TNFR25 agonist; and,   enhancing the antigen specific immune response in vivo.   
 
     
   32 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein an antigen specific immune response activates immune cells comprising: antigen presenting cells, T cells, B cells and natural killer cells. 
 
     
   33 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the TNFR25 agonist is an anti-TNFR25 antibody. 
 
     
   34 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein the administration of an anti-TNFR25 antibody enhances an immune response to a specific antigen as compared to the antigen specific immune response in the absence of the anti-TNFR25 antibody. 
 
     
   35 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein administration of the anti-TNFR25 antibody inhibits generation of antigen specific Treg cells induced by CD103 +  dendritic cells. 
 
     
   36 . The method of  claim 31 , wherein a specific antigen comprises at least one of: viral antigen(s), tumor antigen(s), parasitic antigen(s), bacterial antigen(s), protozoan antigen(s) or combinations thereof. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
