
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
   1 . A method of purifying an anti-c-Met antibody from an anti-c-Met antibody-containing sample, the method comprising performing an affinity chromatography step, a cation-exchange chromatography step, and an anion-exchange chromatography step on the anti-c-Met antibody-containing sample, wherein the cation-exchange chromatography step is performed under at least one condition selected from the group consisting of:
 a condition that anti-c-Met antibody-containing sample loaded onto a cation-exchange chromatography material during the cation exchange chromatography step has a conductivity of about 5.5 mS/cm or less;   a condition that the cation-exchange chromatography step uses a wash buffer with a conductivity of about 7.0 mS/cm or less; and   a condition that the cation-exchange chromatography step use an elution buffer with a conductivity of about 7.6 mS/cm or more.   
 
     
   2 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the conductivity of the anti-c-Met antibody-containing sample loaded onto the cation-exchange chromatography material, the conductivity of the wash buffer, or the conductivity of the elution buffer is adjusted by adjusting salt concentration, pH, or a combination thereof, of the antibody sample, the wash buffer, or the elution buffer, respectively. 
 
     
   3 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein the cation-exchange chromatography step is performed under at least one condition selected from the group consisting of:
 a condition that the salt concentration of the anti-c-Met antibody-containing sample loaded to the cation-exchange chromatography is about 50 mM or less;   a condition that the pH of the anti-c-Met antibody-containing sample loaded onto the cation-exchange chromatography material during the cation exchange chromatography step is about 5.5 or less;   a condition that the salt concentration of the wash buffer used in the cation-exchange chromatography step is about 50 mM or less;   a condition that the pH of the wash buffer used in the cation-exchange chromatography step is about 5.2 to 5.8;   a condition that the salt concentration of the elution buffer used in the cation-exchange chromatography step is about 50 mM or less; and   a condition that the pH of the elution buffer used in the cation-exchange chromatography step is about 6.6 to 7.4.   
 
     
   4 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein the salt concentration is adjusted by adding at least one selected from the group consisting of sodium chloride, magnesium sulfate, calcium chloride, ammonium sulfate, magnesium chloride, potassium chloride, and sodium sulfate, or any combination thereof to the antibody sample, the wash buffer, or the elution buffer. 
 
     
   5 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein the wash buffer comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of phosphate compounds, acetate compounds, citrate compounds, carbonate compounds, HEPES (4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid), MOPS (3-(N-morpholino)propanesulfonic acid), Tris, Bis-Tris, and MES (2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid), wherein the pH of the wash buffer is about 5.2 to 5.8, and
 the elution buffer comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of phosphate compounds, acetate compounds, citrate compounds, carbonate compounds, HEPES (4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid), MOPS (3-(N-morpholino)propanesulfonic acid), Tris, Bis-Tris, and MES (2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid), wherein the pH of the elution buffer is about 6.6 to 7.4.   
 
     
   6 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the affinity chromatography step is performed using an elution buffer with a pH of about 3.0 to 3.5. 
 
     
   7 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein pH of the anti-c-Met antibody-containing sample loaded onto an anion-exchange chromatography material during the anion exchange chromatography step is about 6.5 to 9. 
 
     
   8 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the anion-exchange chromatography step is performed using a chase buffer with a pH of about 6 to 7. 
 
     
   9 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the method further comprises a virus inactivation step, a nanofiltration step, an ultrafiltration step, and a diafiltration step. 
 
     
   10 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the anti-c-Met antibody has an isoelectric point (pI) ranging from about 8 to about 8.5. 
 
     
   11 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the anti-c-Met antibody is an anti-c-Met antibody that recognizes or binds to 5 or more contiguous amino acid in SEMA domain (SEQ ID NO: 79) of c-Met. 
 
     
   12 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the anti-c-Met antibody comprises:
 (i) at least one heavy chain complementarity determining region (CDR) selected from the group consisting of (a) a CDR-H1 comprising SEQ ID NO: 4; (b) a CDR-H2 comprising SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 2, or 8-19 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 2 including the 3 rd  to 10 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; and (c) a CDR-H3 comprising SEQ ID NO: 6, SEQ ID NO: 85, or 6-13 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 85 including the 1 st  to 6 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 85, or a heavy chain variable region comprising the at least one heavy chain complementarity determining region;   (ii) at least one light chain complementarity determining region (CDR) selected from the group consisting of (a) a CDR-L1 comprising SEQ ID NO: 7, (b) a CDR-L2 comprising SEQ ID NO: 8, and (c) a CDR-L3 comprising SEQ ID NO: 9, SEQ ID NO: 15, SEQ ID NO: 86, or 9-17 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 89 including the 1 st  to 9 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 89, or a light chain variable region including the at least one light chain complementarity determining region;   (iii) a combination of the at least one heavy chain complementarity determining region and at least one light chain complementarity determining region; or   (iv) a combination of the heavy chain variable region and the light chain variable region.   
 
     
   13 . An anti-c-Met antibody agent prepared by the method of  claim 1 , wherein the purity of the anti-c-Met antibody agent is about 95% or more, the amount of polymers comprising at least two monomers in the anti-c-Met antibody agent is about 1%(w/w) or less, and the amount of host cell proteins in the anti-c-Met antibody agent is about 4 ppm or less. 
 
     
   14 . An anti-c-Met antibody agent of  claim 13 , wherein the anti-c-Met antibody has an isoelectric point (pI) ranging from about 8 to about 8.5. 
 
     
   15 . An anti-c-Met antibody agent of  claim 13 , wherein the anti-c-Met antibody is an anti-c-Met antibody that recognizes or binds to 5 or more contiguous amino acid in SEMA domain (SEQ IS NO: 79) of c-Met. 
 
     
   16 . An anti-c-Met antibody agent of  claim 15 , wherein the anti-c-Met antibody comprises:
 (i) at least one heavy chain complementarity determining region (CDR) selected from the group consisting of (a) a CDR-H1 comprising SEQ ID NO: 4; (b) a CDR-H2 comprising SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 2, or 8-19 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 2 including the 3 rd  to 10 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; and (c) a CDR-H3 comprising SEQ ID NO: 6, SEQ ID NO: 85, or 6-13 consecutive amino acids within of SEQ ID NO: including the 1 st  to 6 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 85, or a heavy chain variable region comprising the at least one heavy chain complementarity determining region;   (ii) at least one light chain complementarity determining region (CDR) selected from the group consisting of (a) a CDR-L1 comprising SEQ ID NO: 7, (b) a CDR-L2 comprising SEQ ID NO: 8, and (c) a CDR-L3 comprising SEQ ID NO: 9, SEQ ID NO: 15, SEQ ID NO: 86, or 9-17 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 89 including the 1 st  to 9 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 89, or a light chain variable region including the at least one light chain complementarity determining region;   (iii) a combination of the at least one heavy chain complementarity determining region and at least one light chain complementarity determining region; or   (iv) a combination of the heavy chain variable region and the light chain variable region.   
 
     
   17 . A method of purifying a protein from a protein-containing sample, the method comprising performing an affinity chromatography step, a cation-exchange chromatography step, and an anion-exchange chromatography step on the protein-containing sample,
 wherein the protein has an isoelectric point (pI) ranging from about 8 to about 8.5, and   the cation-exchange chromatography step is performed under at least one condition selected from the group consisting of:   (1) a condition that the protein containing sample loaded onto a cation-exchange chromatography material during the cation exchange chromatography step has a conductivity of about 5.5 mS/cm or less;   (2) a condition that the cation-exchange chromatography step uses a wash buffer with a conductivity of about 7.0 mS/cm or less; and   (3) a condition that the cation-exchange chromatography step uses an elution buffer with a conductivity of about 7.6 mS/cm or more.   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
