
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
   1 . A method of developing seeds for consistent early flowering short-day  Cannabis  plants, the method comprising:
 crossbreeding a short-day  Cannabis  plant with a day-neutral  Cannabis  plant; and   collecting the seeds produced through crossbreeding.   
 
     
   2 . The method as claimed in of  claim 1 , wherein the short-day  Cannabis  plant is  Cannabis sativa.    
 
     
   3 . The method as claimed in  claim 1 , wherein the day-neutral  Cannabis  plant is  Cannabis ruderalis.    
 
     
   4 . The method as claimed in  claim 1 , further comprising selecting the short-day  Cannabis  plant based on at least one of resin levels, terpine profile, cannabinoid levels, and structure. 
 
     
   5 . The method as claimed in  claim 1 , further comprising selecting the day-neutral  Cannabis  plant based on at least one of resin levels, terpine profile, cannabinoid levels, and structure. 
 
     
   6 . The method as claimed in  claim 1 , further comprising inbreeding the short-day  Cannabis  plant prior to the crossbreeding. 
 
     
   7 . The method as claimed in  claim 6 , wherein inbreeding includes:
 inducing staminate flowers on a pistillate plant; and   pollinating pistillate flowers on the pistillate plant with pollen from the induced staminate flowers.   
 
     
   8 . The method as claimed in  claim 6 , further comprising selecting the short-day  Cannabis  plant for inbreeding based on at least one of resin levels, terpine profile, cannabinoid levels, and structure. 
 
     
   9 . The method as claimed in  claim 6 , wherein inbreeding the short-day  Cannabis  plant includes homogenizing the initial  Cannabis  plant for at least 3 generations. 
 
     
   10 . The method as claimed in  claim 1 , further comprising inbreeding the day-neutral  Cannabis  plant prior to the crossbreeding. 
 
     
   11 . The method as claimed in  claim 10 , wherein inbreeding includes:
 inducing staminate flowers on a pistillate plant; and   pollinating pistillate flowers on the pistillate plant with pollen from the induced staminate flowers.   
 
     
   12 . The method as claimed in  claim 10 , further comprising selecting the day-neutral  Cannabis  plant for inbreeding based on at least one of resin levels, terpine profile, cannabinoid levels, and structure. 
 
     
   13 . The method as claimed in  claim 10 , wherein inbreeding the day-neutral  Cannabis  plant includes homogenizing the initial  Cannabis  plant for at least 3 generations. 
 
     
   14 . The method as claimed in  claim 1 , wherein crossbreeding includes:
 inducing staminate flowers on a pistillate plant; and   pollinating a second pistillate plant with pollen from the induced staminate flowers.   
 
     
   15 . A  Cannabis  seed, developed from the crossbreeding of a short-day and a day-neutral  Cannabis  plant, comprising:
 early flowering characteristics, wherein the  Cannabis  plant grown from the seed will flower when exposed to a critical photoperiod that includes about 540 minutes of uninterrupted darkness.   
 
     
   16 . The  Cannabis  seed as claimed in  claim 15 , wherein the short-day  Cannabis  plant is  Cannabis sativa.    
 
     
   17 . The  Cannabis  seed as claimed in  claim 15 , wherein the day-neutral  Cannabis  plant is  Cannabis ruderalis.    
 
     
   18 . A  Cannabis  seed obtained by crossing:
 a first  Cannabis  plant that is transformed preferentially to have a first homozygosity level and to express short-day characteristics, whereby flowering depends on a change in photoperiod; and   a second  Cannabis  plant that is transformed preferentially to have a second homozygosity level and to express day-neutral characteristics, whereby flowering does not depend on a change in photoperiod.   
 
     
   19 . The  Cannabis  seed as claimed in  claim 18 , wherein the first and second homozygosity levels are measured by genetic testing. 
 
     
   20 . A method of producing an early flowering  Cannabis  plant, the method comprising:
 crossing a day-neutral  Cannabis ruderalis  plant with a short-day  Cannabis sativa  plant;   recovering the resultant F 1  hybrid  Cannabis  seed;   planting the resultant F 1  hybrid  Cannabis  seed and growing into plants; and   selecting resultant  Cannabis  plant from the planting having a desired trait.   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
