
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We claim: 
   
   1 . A Staphylokinase variant, wherein one or more amino acids are added to the amino-terminus of SEQ ID NO:1, to the carboxy-terminus or SEQ ID NO:1 or to the amino-terminus and the carboxy-terminus of SEQ ID NO:1, and wherein the one or more amino acids comprise at least one cysteine residue. 
 
     
   2 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 1 , wherein the one or more amino acids are added to the amino-terminus of SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
   3 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 1 , wherein the one or more amino acids are added to the carboxy-terminus of SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
   4 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 1 , comprising a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5 and SEQ ID NO:6. 
 
     
   5 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 1 , wherein the at least one cysteine residue is modified with a cysteine-reactive moiety. 
 
     
   6 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 1 , wherein the at least one cysteine residue is conjugated to a polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecule. 
 
     
   7 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 6 , wherein all of the at least one cysteine residues are conjugated to a linear PEG molecule or to a branched PEG molecule. 
 
     
   8 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 7 , wherein the molecular size of the PEG molecule ranges from 5-20 Kilodaltons. 
 
     
   9 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 6 , wherein the variant has proteolytic stability which is greater than the proteolytic stability of the polypeptide identified as SEQ ID NO:1, wherein proteolytic stability of the Staphylokinase variant and of the polypeptide identified as SEQ ID NO:1 is measured in vitro at a pH of about 8 and at a temperature of about 37° C. in the presence of trypsin. 
 
     
   10 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 6 , wherein the variant has in vivo immunogenicity which is less that the in vivo immunogenicity of the polypeptide identified as SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
   11 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 6 , wherein the variant has an in vivo half life which is greater than the in vivo half life of the polypeptide identified as SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
   12 . The Staphylokinase variant of  claim 1 , wherein the variant has temperature stability which is greater than the temperature stability of the polypeptide identified as SEQ ID NO:1, wherein the temperature stability is determined at a temperature ranging from about 20° C. to about 80° C. 
 
     
   13 . A recombinant  E. coli  host cell comprising a vector, wherein the vector comprises a DNA sequence encoding a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5 or SEQ ID NO:6. 
 
     
   14 . The host cell of  claim 13 , wherein the host cell is deposited in the International Depository Authority (IDA), and wherein the host cell has the deposit number MTCC 5437, MTCC 5438, MTCC 5439, or MTCC 5440. 
 
     
   15 . A pharmaceutical composition comprising the Staphylokinase variant of  claim 6 , further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 
     
   16 . A method for treating a cardiovascular disorder selected from the group consisting of myocardial infarction, vascular thromboses, pulmonary embolism, stroke a vascular event, disease or disorder selected from a group consisting of myocardial infarction, angina, pulmonary embolism, transient ischemic attack, deep vein thrombosis, thrombotic re-occlusion subsequent to a coronary intervention procedure, heart surgery or vascular surgery, peripheral vascular thrombosis, Syndrome X, heart failure, and a disorder in which a narrowing of at least one coronary artery occurs, comprising administering the pharmaceutical composition of  claim 15 .  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
