
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
   1 . A vector for introducing modifications into a target genomic site of bacteria via a CRISPR-Cas complex, wherein said target genomic site is a contiguous nucleic acid sequence comprising a first protospacer sequence, a first upstream sequence and a first downstream sequence, said vector comprising
 a synthetic CRISPR array;   an inducible promoter operably linked to said synthetic CRISPR array; and   a first homology arm polylinker site; wherein
 said synthetic CRISPR array comprises 
   a first and second direct repeat, wherein said first and second direct repeat have greater than 95% sequence identity to one another and are orientated relative to each other as direct repeats; and   a first spacer polylinker site, wherein the first spacer polylinker site is located between the first and second direct repeat; and   a CRISPR terminator sequence located after said second direct repeat.   
 
     
   2 . The vector of  claim 1  wherein
 said first and second direct repeat independently comprise a sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; and 
 said CRISPR terminator sequence comprises a sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. 
 
 
     
   3 . The vector of  claim 2  wherein the inducible promoter is a lactose inducible promoter. 
 
     
   4 . The vector of  claim 3  further comprising a native  Clostridium tyrobutyricum  Cas encoding sequence. 
 
     
   5 . The vector of  claim 4  wherein said native  Clostridium tyrobutyricum  Cas encoding sequence is operably linked to an inducible promoter. 
 
     
   6 . The vector of  claim 1  further comprising elements for introducing modifications into a first and second target genomic site of bacteria via a CRISPR-Cas complex, wherein said first target genomic site is a contiguous nucleic acid sequence comprising a first protospacer sequence, a first upstream sequence and first downstream sequence, and said second target genomic site is a contiguous nucleic acid sequence comprising a second protospacer sequence, a second upstream sequence and second downstream sequence, said vector further comprising
 a second homology arm polylinker site; and 
 said synthetic CRISPR array further comprises
 a third direct repeat, wherein said third direct repeat comprises a sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 and is orientated as a direct repeat relative to the first and second direct repeats; and 
 a second spacer polylinker site, wherein the second spacer polylinker site located between the second and third direct repeat, wherein said CRISPR terminator sequence is located after said third direct repeat. 
 
 
 
     
   7 . The vector of  claim 3  wherein
 a first spacer sequence of 20 to 50 nucleotides is inserted into said first spacer polylinker site; and 
 a first and second homology arm sequence are inserted into said first homology arm polylinker site, wherein said first homology arm sequence comprises a nucleotide sequence sharing at least about 90% sequence identity to said first upstream sequence, and the second homology arm comprises a nucleotide sequence sharing at least about 90% sequence identity to said first downstream sequence. 
 
 
     
   8 . The vector of  claim 6  wherein
 a first spacer sequence of 20 to 50 nucleotides is inserted into said first spacer polylinker site; 
 a second spacer sequence of 20 to 50 nucleotides is inserted into said second spacer polylinker site; 
 a first and second homology arm sequence are inserted into said first homology arm polylinker site, wherein said first homology arm sequence comprises a nucleotide sequence sharing at least about 90% sequence identity to said first upstream sequence, and the second homology arm comprises a nucleotide sequence sharing at least about 90% sequence identity to said first downstream sequence; and 
 a third and fourth homology arm sequence are inserted into said second homology arm polylinker site, wherein said third homology arm sequence comprises a nucleotide sequence sharing at least about 90% sequence identity to said second upstream sequence, and the fourth homology arm comprises a nucleotide sequence sharing at least about 90% sequence identity to said second downstream sequence. 
 
 
     
   9 . A method of modifying a target site of a bacterial cell genome, said method comprising
 transforming said bacterial cell with the vector of  claim 1  and selecting for transformants comprising said vector;   inducing the expression of said CRISPR array; and   identifying recombinant bacteria having a modification to said target site of the genome.   
 
     
   10 . The method of  claim 9  wherein the target site is the cat1 gene and the first spacer sequence comprises the sequence 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 (SEQ ID NO: 4) 
   
   
 CTTGTAGAAGATGGATCAACCCTACAACTTGGTA. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
