
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I/we claim: 
   
   1 . A companion diagnostic test comprising:
 a. obtaining one or more biological samples from a subject undergoing a treatment or considered for a treatment;   b. assaying a panel of biomarkers;   c. generating a score with an algorithm based on the assay results of said panel of biomarkers; and   d. determining the likely responsiveness of said subject to said treatment based on the score.   
 
     
   2 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein at least one of the biological samples is obtained at baseline or prior to treatment. 
 
     
   3 . (canceled) 
 
     
   4 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the panel of biomarkers comprises serum neuroendocrine markers. 
 
     
   5 . (canceled) 
 
     
   6 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the algorithm comprises:
 (a) CgA subject assay value≦3×(Upper Limit of Normal (ULN) and   NSE subject assay value≦1.5 ULN, equals low neuroendocrine levels;   (b) CgA subject assay value≦3×5 nmole/L and   NSE subject assay value≦1.5×12.5 ng/mL, equals low neuroendocrine levels;   (c) CgA subject assay value>3×ULN and   NSE subject assay value>1.5 ULN, equals high neuroendocrine levels; or   (d) CgA subject assay value>3×5 nmole/L and   NSE subject assay value>1.5×12.5 ng/mL, equals high neuroendocrine levels.   
 
     
   7 - 9 . (canceled) 
 
     
   10 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the panel of biomarkers further comprises a Prostate Serum Antigen (PSA) assay. 
 
     
   11 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 10 , wherein the PSA algorithm comprises:
 PSA value>100 ng/mL, equals high PSA; or   PSA value<100 ng/mL, equals low PSA.   
 
     
   12 . (canceled) 
 
     
   13 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the algorithm comprises:
 CgA subject assay value≦3×ULN and   NSE subject assay value≦1.5 ULN, equals low neuroendocrine levels; and   PSA value>100 ng/mL.   
 
     
   14 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the panel of biomarkers further comprises prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) intensity, wherein the intensity of PSMA is determined with an immunohistochemical (IHC) procedure and determining an H-score. 
 
     
   15 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 14 , wherein the H-score is calculated according to the following formula:
     H -score=(% cells showing 3+staining intensity)×3+(% cells showing 2+staining intensity)×2+(% cells showing 1+staining intensity).
   
 
     
   16 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 15 , where the algorithm comprises:
 H-score is ≧200.   
 
     
   17 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 16 , wherein an H-score ≧200 equals high PSMA intensity. 
 
     
   18 . (canceled) 
 
     
   19 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the algorithm comprises:
 CgA subject assay value≦3×ULN and   NSE subject assay value≦1.5 ULN, equals low neuroendocrine levels;   PSA value>100 ng/mL; and   H-score is ≧200.   
 
     
   20 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the panel of biomarkers further comprises Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) assay. 
 
     
   21 - 23 . (canceled) 
 
     
   24 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein the panel of biomarkers further comprises an assay of cell surface PSMA density. 
 
     
   25 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 24 , wherein the algorithm comprises:
 cell surface PSMA density>100,000 molecules of PSMA/PSMA +  CTC, equals high cell surface PSMA density; or   cell surface PSMA density>3+ average cell fluorescence intensity on a scale of zero to 4+ fluorescence intensity, equals high cell surface PSMA density, and the neuroendocrine level is low.   
 
     
   26 . (canceled) 
 
     
   27 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 24  any one of  claims 24 - 26 , wherein the cell surface PSMA density is measured by mean fluorescence intensity (MFI). 
 
     
   28 . (canceled) 
 
     
   29 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 27 , wherein the algorithm comprises:
 MFI>24, equals high cell surface PSMA density, and the neuroendocrine level is low.   
 
     
   30 . The companion diagnostic test of  claim 1 , wherein a score at baseline of
 (a) low neuroendocrine levels, and
 high PSA, 
 is indicative of likely responsiveness to treatment; or 
   (b) low neuroendocrine levels,
 high PSA, and 
 high PSMA intensity or high cell surface PSMA density on PSMA +  CTC or tumor tissue, 
 is indicative of likely responsiveness to treatment. 
   
 
     
   31 - 60 . (canceled) 
 
     
   61 . A method of treating metastatic prostate cancer comprising:
 a) performing a biomarker test on a patient at baseline; and   b) providing a treatment to the patient according to the results of the biomarker test.   
 
     
   62 - 96 . (canceled) 
 
     
   97 . A biomarker assay for identifying a subject likely to respond to a PSMA targeted therapy comprising: determining the average cell surface PSMA density on PSMA +  CTCs. 
 
     
   98 - 130 . (canceled) 
 
     
   131 . A biomarker assay for identifying a subject likely to respond to a PSMA targeted therapy comprising: measuring one or more serum neuroendocrine markers in a sample from a subject. 
 
     
   132 - 142 . (canceled) 
 
     
   143 . A diagnostic kit for selecting a prostate cancer patient for treatment by a PSMA ligand-anticancer agent conjugate, wherein the diagnostic kit comprises;
 assay reagents to measure serum levels of neuroendocrine enzymes and instructions for selecting;   reagents for use in an biomarker assay to determine the PSMA density on PSMA +  CTCs in a biological sample obtained from the patient, and instructions for selecting; or   reagents for use in an IHC assay to determine the H-score of a biological sample obtained from the patient, and instructions for selecting.   
 
     
   144 - 161 . (canceled) 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
