
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method for preparing functional hepatic progenitor cells or functional hepatic cells, or functional small intestinal epithelial progenitor cells or functional small intestinal epithelial cells, the method comprising the step of culturing an isolated cell population comprising hepatic progenitor cells or hepatic cells, or small intestinal epithelial progenitor cells or small intestinal epithelial cells in the presence of an antibiotic. 
 
     
   2 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the isolated cell population is a primary culture derived from a hepatic tissue or a small intestinal epithelial tissue. 
 
     
   3 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the isolated cell population is differentiated from stem cells. 
 
     
   4 . The method according to  claim 3 , wherein the stem cells are embryonic stem (ES) cells. 
 
     
   5 . The method according to  claim 3 , wherein the stem cells are induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. 
 
     
   6 . The method according to  claim 5 , wherein the iPS cells are derived from a healthy individual. 
 
     
   7 . The method according to  claim 5 , wherein the iPS cells are derived from a drug-induced liver injury patient or a drug-induced small intestinal injury patient. 
 
     
   8 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the antibiotic is selected from the group consisting of puromycin, blasticidin S, G418, hygromycin, phleomycin and phleomycin D1. 
 
     
   9 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the antibiotic is 0.1 to 100 μg/ml puromycin. 
 
     
   10 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the culture step is performed in the presence of a hepatic differentiation inducing factor. 
 
     
   11 . The method according to  claim 10 , wherein the hepatic differentiation inducing factor is selected from the group consisting of a cytokine, a cell growth factor, a ROCK inhibitor, a MAPK inhibitor, an ALK inhibitor and an extracellular matrix. 
 
     
   12 . The method according to  claim 1 , further comprising the step of culturing the isolated cell population in the presence of ammonia. 
 
     
   13 . Functional hepatic progenitor cells or functional hepatic cells obtained by a method according to  claim 1 . 
 
     
   14 . Functional small intestinal epithelial progenitor cells or functional small intestinal epithelial cells obtained by a method according to  claim 1 . 
 
     
   15 . A substantially homogeneous isolated cell population comprising functional hepatic progenitor cells, wherein an expression level of CYP3A4 in the functional hepatic progenitor cells is increased by at least 5 times the expression level thereof in a HepaRG (R)  cell line. 
 
     
   16 . The isolated cell population according to  claim 15 , wherein the functional hepatic progenitor cells express at least one member selected from the group consisting of α-fetoprotein, albumin, CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 at a higher level than that of the HepaRG (R)  cell line. 
 
     
   17 . The isolated cell population according to  claim 15 , wherein the functional hepatic progenitor cells are CD44-positive and/or EpCAM-positive. 
 
     
   18 . The isolated cell population according to  claim 15 , wherein the isolated cell population is immortalized. 
 
     
   19 . Functional hepatic progenitor cells deposited under deposition No. BP-02591 and/or BP-02592 with National Institute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE) Patent Microorganisms Depositary. 
 
     
   20 . A method for treating a subject having hepatic dysfunction, the method comprising the step of administering an isolated cell population according to  claim 15  to the subject. 
 
     
   21 . A pharmaceutical composition for treating hepatic dysfunction, comprising an isolated cell population according to  claim 15 . 
 
     
   22 . A method for evaluating the toxicity of a test compound, comprising the steps of:
 (1) contacting functional hepatic cells differentiated from an isolated cell population according to  claim 15  with the test compound; and   (2) analyzing a degree of injury to the functional hepatic cells.   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
