
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . An isolated polypeptide that binds decay accelerating factor (DAF) and competitively inhibits the specific binding of OE-1 antibody to DAF.  
 
     
   2 . The isolated polypeptide of  claim 1 , wherein the isolated polypeptide binds SCR-3 epitope of DAF.  
 
     
   3 . The isolated polypeptide of  claim 1 , wherein the polypeptide is an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof.  
 
     
   4 . The isolated polypeptide of  claim 3 , wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof interferes with transmigration of neutrophils across a cellular membrane.  
 
     
   5 . The isolated polypeptide of  claim 3 , wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is selected for its ability to bind living cells.  
 
     
   6 . The isolated polypeptide of  claim 3 , wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof binds to a conformational epitope of DAF.  
 
     
   7 . The isolated polypeptide of  claim 3 , wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.  
 
     
   8 . The isolated polypeptide of  claim 7 , wherein the monoclonal antibody is OE-1.  
 
     
   9 . The polypeptide of  claim 3 , wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof binds SCR-3 epitope of DAF.  
 
     
   10 . An isolated polypeptide which has the amino acid sequence EX 1 EX 2 WX 2 R X 1 X 3  (SEQ ID NO: 1), wherein X 1  is a neutral amino acid, X 2  is a large amino acid and X 3  is a hydrophobic amino acid.  
 
     
   11 - 19 . (canceled)  
 
     
   20 . A recombinant expression vector comprising an isolated nucleic acid operably-linked to a promoter, wherein the isolated nucleic acid encodes the polypeptide of  claim 10  or a complement thereof.  
 
     
   21 - 27 . (canceled)  
 
     
   28 . A method for modulating an immunological interaction comprising contacting cells bearing DAF with an agent that binds DAF and that interferes with the interaction between neutrophils and the cells bearing DAF.  
 
     
   29 - 32 . (canceled)  
 
     
   33 . A method for treating inflammation comprising administering to a subject in need of such treatment an effective amount of an agent that binds DAF or mimics SCR-3 epitope of DAF, wherein the agent interferes with the interaction between neutrophils and DAF bearing cells.  
 
     
   34 - 38 . (canceled)  
 
     
   39 . A method for interfering with neutrophil transmigration comprising, 
 contacting a barrier across which neutrophils transmigrate and including cells expressing DAF with an agent that binds DAF.    
 
     
   40 - 44 . (canceled)  
 
     
   45 . A method for identifying an agent that interferes with transmigration of neutrophils comprising, 
 contacting a membrane across which said neutrophils transmigrate with an agent that binds DAF,    contacting the membrane with said neutrophils, and    determining whether the neutrophils transmigrate across the membrane.    
 
     
   46 - 53 . (canceled) 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
