
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   1 . A method for preparing a peptide consisting of the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 4 or 16, comprising fermenting animal milk or milk protein using at least one lactic acid bacterium and/or a treated product thereof and collecting the peptide from the resultant fermented milk. 
 
     
   2 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the lactic acid bacterium is at least one bacterium belonging to a genus selected from the group consisting of  Lactobacillus, Streptococcus, Bifidobacterium, Enterococcus, Leuconostoc, Lactococcus, Pediococcus , and  Weissella.    
 
     
   3 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the lactic acid bacterium is at least one selected from the group consisting of  Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillus delbrueckii  subsp.  bulgaricus, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus amylovorus, Lactobacillus gasseri, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus zeae, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus reuteri, Lactobacillus crispatus, Lactobacillus gallinarum, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus plantarum , and  Lactobacillus johnsonii.    
 
     
   4 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the lactic acid bacterium is  Streptococcus thermophilus.    
 
     
   5 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the lactic acid bacterium is  Lactobacillus helveticus  CM4 strain (Accession Number: FERM BP-6060). 
 
     
   6 . The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the peptide is collected 3 to 96 hours after the start of the fermentation. 
 
     
   7 . A method for preparing a composition comprising a peptide consisting of the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 4 or 16, comprising fermenting animal milk or milk protein using at least one lactic acid bacterium and/or a treated product thereof and formulating the resultant fermented milk or the peptide consisting of the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 4 or 16 collected therefrom. 
 
     
   8 . A composition comprising a peptide consisting of the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 4 or 16. 
 
     
   9 . A fermented milk composition, which is obtained by fermenting animal milk or milk protein using at least one lactic acid bacterium and/or a treated product thereof and which comprises a peptide consisting of the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 4 or 16. 
 
     
   10 . The composition according to  claim 9 , wherein the composition comprises 0.1 μg/ml or more of the peptide. 
 
     
   11 . A food or drink comprising the composition according to  claim 8  incorporated thereinto. 
 
     
   12 . A supplement comprising the composition according to  claim 8  incorporated thereinto. 
 
     
   13 . A method for preparing a functional food or drink, comprising fermenting animal milk or milk protein using at least one lactic acid bacterium and/or a treated product thereof, and incorporating the resultant fermented milk or a peptide consisting of the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 4 or 16 obtained therefrom, into a food or drink. 
 
     
   14 . Use of at least one lactic acid bacterium or a treated product thereof for producing a peptide consisting of the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOS: 1 to 4 or 16. 
 
     
   15 . A food or drink comprising the composition according to  claim 9  incorporated thereinto. 
 
     
   16 . A supplement comprising the composition according to  claim 9  incorporated thereinto. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
