
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What we claim is: 
   
 1. A recombinant plasmid which is capable of inducing the extracellular secretion of xylanase in Escherichia coli transformed with said plasmid and which is obtained by inserting a chromosomal DNA fragment of Bacillus sp. C125 coding for extracellular secretion of xylanase, at restriction sites for a vector plasmid DNA. 
 
     
 2. The plasmid of claim 1, wherein the vector plasmid is plasmid pBR322. 
 
     
 3. The plasmid of claim 1, wherein the plasmid is plasmid pCX311. 
 
     
 4. A method of construction of a plasmid which is a recombinant plasmid capable of inducing the extracellular secretion of xylanase in Escherichia coli transformed with said plasmid and which is obtained by inserting a chromosomal DNA fragment of Bacillus sp. C125 coding for extracellular secretion of xylanase, at restriction sites of a vector plasmid DNA, which comprises the steps of: (a) preparing with a first restriction enzyme, a chromosomal DNA fragment coding for extracellular secretion of xylanase, from Bacillus sp. C125,   (b) digesting a vector plasmid DNA with a second restriction enzyme which does not interfere with the genetic information carried on the chromosomal DNA fragment;   (c) treating said chromosomal DNA fragment and said digested vector plasmid DNA with DNA ligase to form the recombinant plasmid DNA, and   (d) isolating the recombinant plasmid DNA.   
 
     
 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the first and second restriction enzymes are restriction enzyme Hind III. 
 
     
 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the vector plasmid is pBR322. 
 
     
 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the recombinant plasmid is plasmid pCX311. 
 
     
 8. Escherichia coli HB101 which has been transformed with plasmid pCX311 and which is capable of extracellular secretion of xylanase. 
 
     
 9. A method of cultivating a transformant which comprises: (a) inoculating the transformant carrying a recombinant plasmid which is capable of inducing the extracellular secretion of xylanase in Escherichia coli transformed with said plasmid, and which is obtained by inserting a chromosomal DNA fragment of Bacillus sp. C125 coding for extracellular secretion of xylanase, at restriction sites of a vector plasmid DNA, in a medium containing a selected carbon source together with an inorganic salt which is a member selected from the group consisting of sodium salts and potassium salts;   (b) keeping on culturing the transformant after the concentration of the transformant cells reached the maximum and the production and accumulation of xylanase in the medium reached the maximum.   
 
     
 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the inorganic salt is sodium chloride or potassium chloride. 
 
     
 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the inorganic salt is used in an amount of 0.5 to 3.0% by weight on the basis of the weight of the medium. 
 
     
 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the carbon source is bran or xylan. 
 
     
 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the transformant is cultured for 12 to 48 hours. 
 
     
 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the transformant is Escherichia coli HB101 which has been transformed with plasmid pCX311 and is capable of extracellular secretion of xylanase. 
 
     
 15. The method of claim 9, wherein the inorganic salt is sodium chloride or potassium chloride and is used in an amount of 0.5 to 3.0% by weight on the basis of the weight of the medium, the carbon source is bran or xylan, and the transformant is cultured for 12 to 48 hours. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
