
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What we claim is: 
   
 1. A plasmid which is capable of transforming a host cell from a strain of the genus Escherichia into a cell capable of expressing and secreting heterologous penicillinase and xylanase, said plasmid consisting essentially of: a) a first chromosomal DNA fragment from the genus Bacillus coding for penicillinase; and   b) a second DNA fragment, operably linked for autonomous expression in a transformed host to said first DNA fragment, and expressing said xylanase, said second DNA fragment consisting of a chromosomal DNA fragment from a strain of the genus Aeromonas coding for xylanase.   
 
     
 2. The plasmid of claim 1, wherein said plasmid is the plasmid pXP102-3 (FERM BP-951). 
 
     
 3. The plasmid of claim 1, wherein said strain of the genus Bacillus is Bacillus No. 170 (FERM BP-467). 
 
     
 4. The plasmid of claim 1, wherein said strain of the genus Aeromonas is Aeromonas sp No. 212 (ATCC 31085). 
 
     
 5. A transformed strain of the genus Escherichia being capable of expressing and secreting heterologous penicillinase and xylanase, which strain comprises a plasmid consisting essentially of: a) a first chromosomal DNA fragment from the genus Bacillus coding for penicillinase; and   b) a second DNA fragment, operably linked for autonomous expression to said first DNA fragment, and for expressing said xylanase, said second DNA fragment consisting of a chromosomal DNA fragment from a strain of the genus Aeromonas coding for xylanase.   
 
     
 6. The transformed strain of claim 5, wherein said plasmid is the plasmid pXP102-3 (FERM BP-951). 
 
     
 7. The transformed strain of claim 5, wherein said strain of the genus Bacillus is Bacillus No. 170 (FERM BP-467). 
 
     
 8. The transformed strain of claim 5, wherein said strain of the genus Aeromonas is Aeromonas sp. No. 212 (ATCC 31085). 
 
     
 9. A method for producing penicillinase and xylanase, which comprises cultivating a transformed strain of the genus Escherichia in a suitable nutrient broth, thereby accumulating said penicillinase and xylanase, and separating the thus-produced penicillinase and xylanase from the broth, wherein said transformed strain is capable of expressing and secreting heterologous penicillinase and xylanase, and which strain comprises a plasmid consisting of: a) a first chromosomal DNA fragment from the genus Bacillus coding for penicillinase; and   b) a second DNA fragment, operably linked for autonomous expression to said first DNA fragment, and for expressing said xylanase, said second DNA fragment consisting of a chromosomal DNA fragment from a strain of the genus Aeromonas coding for xylanase.   
 
     
 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the suitable nutrient broth contains an inorganic salt selected from the group consisting of sodium salts and potassium salts, and a carbon source selected from the group consisting of bran and xylan. 
 
     
 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the inorganic salt is used in an amount of 0.1 to 3.0% by weight on the basis of the weight of the medium. 
 
     
 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the transformed strain is cultured for 12 to 48 hours. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
