
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I claim: 
   
 1. An isolated enzyme material having protease activity obtained from Micrococcus sedentarius having the following characteristics: (a) water-soluble,   (b) non-dialyzable through a membrane having a molecular weight cut-off of 10 kDa,   (c) an isoelectric point of about 4.6,   (d) a molecular weight of 30.3 kDA,   (e) an optimum pH for protease activity at about 8.2 and an optimum temperature for protease activity at about 40째 C.   
 
     
 2. The isolated enzyme material of claim 1 obtained from Micrococcus sedentarius NCIBM 40287. 
 
     
 3. The isolated enzyme material of claim 1 having an optimum pH for human callus-degrading activity of about pH 7.1 and an optimum temperature of about 40째 C. 
 
     
 4. The isolated enzyme material of claim 1 wherein said enzyme material is in a substantially pure form. 
 
     
 5. The isolated enzyme material of claim 1 wherein said enzyme material is in the form of a cell-free culture of Micrococcus sedentarius. 
 
     
 6. The isolated enzyme material of claim 1, in a pharmaceutical composition comprising the enzyme material and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 
 
     
 7. The isolated enzyme material of claim 1, in a composition for topical application to the skin of a human subject comprising the enzyme material and a topically acceptable base. 
 
     
 8. An isolated enzyme material having protease activity obtained from Micrococcus sedentarius having the following characteristics: (a) water-soluble,   (b) non-dialyzable through a membrane having a molecular weight cut-off of about 10 kDa,   (c) an isoelectric point of 2.7,   (d) a molecular weight of 50 kDa,   (e) an optimum pH for protease activity at about 10.2 and an optimum temperature for protease activity at about 46째 C.   
 
     
 9. The isolated enzyme material of claim 8 obtained from Micrococcus sedentarius NCIMB 40287. 
 
     
 10. An isolated material of claim 8 wherein said enzyme material is in a substantially pure form. 
 
     
 11. The isolated enzyme material of claim 8 wherein said enzyme material is in the form of a cell-free culture of Micrococcus sedentarius. 
 
     
 12. The isolated enzyme material of claim 8 having an optimum pH for human callus degrading activity at about 7.5 and an optimum temperature at about 50째 C. 
 
     
 13. The isolated enzyme material of claim 8, in a pharmaceutical composition comprising the enzyme material and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or expedient. 
 
     
 14. The isolated enzyme material of claim 8, in a composition for topical application to the skin of a human subject comprising the enzyme material and a topically acceptable base. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
