
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We claim: 
   
 1. A process for the production of high yields of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid comprising: a) digesting the total DNA of a strain of Acinetobacter which is deposited under ATCC 53891 whose DNA includes the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase and placing the resultant DNA fragments in DNA vectors so as to form a plasmidic library,   b) transforming, with each of the resultant DNA sequences contained in the plasmidic library, a E. coli host cells that are auxotrophic to leucine,   c) selecting for a transformed E. coli cell containing the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carborybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase by growth on a medium containing the glutaric acid amide of leucine,   d) isolating the vector containing the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase from the resultant selected cell, digesting the vector DNA, and figuring each of the DNA sequences so obtained into an E. coli vector such that each of said DNA sequence is under the transcriptional control of E. coli tac promoter sequence,   e) transforming an E. coli host auxotrophic to leucine with each of the vectors formed in step (d), and then selecting for transformed hosts containing the sequence encoding 7; -beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase under the transcriptional control of the E. coil tac promoter by growth on a medium as in step (c) above,   f) isolating the vectors from the resultant selected E. coli cells and using said vectors to transform an E. coli host deposited under NCIMB 40432 which is selected to lack substantial beta-lactamase activity,   g) culturing the resultant transformed E. coli under conditions which enable expression of 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase, recovering the resultant expressed 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase from whole broth, and   h) reacting in an aqueous medium of 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporanic acid or a salt thereof with said 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase recovered from said whole broth to produce said 7-aminocephalosporanic acid.   
 
     
 2. A process for the production of an E. coli strain, producing high yields of 7-beta- (4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase, comprising: a) digesting the total DNA of a strain of Acinetobacter which is deposited under ATCC 53891 whose DNA includes the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase and placing the resultant DNA fragments in a DNA vector so as to form a plasmidic library,   b) transforming, with each of the resultant DNA sequences contained in the plasmidic library, E. coli host cells that are auxotrophic to leucine,   c) selecting for a transformed E. coli cell containing the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase by growth on a medium containing the glutaric acid amide of leucine,   d) isolating the vector containing the sequence encoding 7-beta- (4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase from the resultant selected cell, digesting the vector DNA, and ligating each of the DNA sequences so obtained into an E. coli vector such that each of said DNA sequences is under the transcriptional control of E. coli tac promoter sequence,   e) transforming an E. coli host auxotrophic to leucine with each of the vectors formed in step (d), and then selecting for transformed hosts containing the sequence encoding 7-beta- (4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase under the transcriptional control of the E. coli tac promoter by growth on a medium as in step (c) above, and   f) isolating the vectors from the resultant selected E. coli cells and using said vectors to transform an E. coli host deposited under NCIMB 40432 which is selected to lack substantial β-lactamase activity.   
 
     
 3. A process for the production of high yields of 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase comprising: a) digesting the total DNA of a strain of Acinetobacter which is deposited under ATCC 5:3891 whose DNA includes the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase and placing the resultant DNA fragments in DNA vectors so as to form a plasmidic library,   b) transforming, with each of the resultant DNA sequences contained in the plasmidic library, a E. coli host cells that an auxotrophic to leucine,   c) selecting for a transformed E. coli cell containing the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase by growth on a medium containing the glutaric acid amide of leucine,   d) isolating the vector containing the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase from the resultant selected cell, digesting the vector DNA, and ligating each of the DNA sequences so obtained into an E. coli vector such that each of said DNA sequence is under the transcriptional control of E. coli tac promoter sequence,   e) transforming an E. coli host auxotrophic to leucine with each of the vectors formed in step (d), and then selecting for transformed hosts containing the sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase under the transcriptional control of the E. coli tac promoter by growth on a medium as in step (c) above,   f) isolating the vectors from the resultant selected E. coli hosts and using said sectors to transform an E. coli host deposited under NCIMB 40432 which is selected to lack substantial beta-lactase activity, and   g) culturing the resultant transformed E. coli under conditions which enable expression of 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase, and recovering said 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase from whole broth.   
 
     
 4. A strain of E. coli deposited under NCIMB 40433, or progeny thereof capable of producing high yields of 7β-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase. 
 
     
 5. The pJC200 plasmid containing a DNA sequence encoding 7-beta- (4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase under the transcriptional control of E. coli tac promoter sequence which is the plasmid in the E. coli strain of claim 4. 
 
     
 6. The pJC200 plasmid containing a DNA sequence encoding 7-beta-(4-carboxybutanamido) cephalosporin acylase under the control of the E. coli tac promoter sequence. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
