
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for treating myocardial infarction or a blood clot within a patient by enhancing fibrinolysis, which method comprises administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof which binds α2-antiplasmin crosslinked to fibrin, but wherein said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof inhibits less than 5% of the soluble α2-antiplasmin circulating in the plasma. 
 
     
 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof is administered by continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 3 to 100 nmole/kg body weight of the patient. 
 
     
 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof is administered by bolus at a dose of 3 to 100 nmole/kg body weight of the patient. 
 
     
 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein said monoclonal antibody is selected from the group consisting of 1F2 (ATCC HB-12149) and 3G2 (ATCC HB-12148). 
 
     
 5. A method of treating a myocardial infarction or blood clot within a patient by enhancing fibrinolysis, which method comprises co-administering to said patient: (a) a therapeutically effective amount of a monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof which binds α2-antiplasmin crosslinked to fibrin, but wherein said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof inhibits less than 5% of the soluble α2-antiplasmin circulating in the plasma; and   (b) a thrombolytic agent in an amount sufficient to either (i) dissolve a fibrin or fibrin-platelet clot or (ii) inhibit the formation of a fibrin or fibrin-platelet clot.   
 
     
 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein both said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof (a) and said thrombolytic agent (b) are provided to said patient by an intravenous infusion. 
 
     
 7. The method according to claim 5, wherein both said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof (a) and said thrombolytic agent (b) are provided to said patient by an intravenously injected bolus. 
 
     
 8. The method according to claim 5, wherein said patient is provided with a first bolus containing said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof (a) and a subsequently administered second bolus containing said thrombolytic agent (b). 
 
     
 9. The method according to claim 5, wherein said thrombolytic agent is selected from the group consisting of streptokinase, prourokinase, urokinase, staphylokinase, and tissue-type plasminogen activator. 
 
     
 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein said thrombolytic agent is tissue-type plasminogen activator. 
 
     
 11. The method according to claim 5, wherein: (1) said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof (a) is provided to said patient at a dose of between 3 to 6 nmole per kg of the patient's weight; and   (2) said thrombolytic agent (b) is provided to said patient at a dose of between 0.5 to 1.0 mg per kg of the patient's weight.   
 
     
 12. The method according to claim 5, wherein: (1) said monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof (a) is provided to said patient at a dose of between 3 to 6 nmole per kg of the patient's weight; and   (2) said thrombolytic agent (b) is provided to said patient at a dose of between 0.5 to 0.75 mg per kg of the patient's weight.   
 
     
 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein said monoclonal antibody is selected from the group consisting of 1F2, (ATCC HB-12149) and 3G2, (ATCC HB-12148). 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
