
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 That which is claimed is: 
   
 1. An isolated microorganism, wherein said microorganism is a mold which produces alcohol dehydrogenase, and said microorganism is Geotrichum candidum IMI 369326. 
 
     
 2. A biologically pure culture for converting leaf aldehydes to leaf alcohols consisting of the microorganism according to claim 1. 
 
     
 3. A process for the conversion of a leaf aldehyde to a leaf alcohol, comprising contacting the leaf aldehyde with a microorganism which produces alcohol dehydrogenase, whereby the microorganism is the non-yeast mold Geotrichum candidum IMI 369326, under conditions sufficient to support the conversion reaction. 
 
     
 4. A method of providing a green note compound, comprising the steps of: (a) contacting at least one unsaturated fatty acid, plant biomass having active levels of lipoxygenase and hydroperoxide lyase enzymes, and the non-yeast mold Geotrichum candidum IMI 369326 which produces alcohol dehydrogenase in the presence of an aqueous liquid under conditions sufficient to: (i) provide release of lipoxygenase and hydroperoxide lyase from the plant biomass, and   (ii) provide reaction of the fatty acid with the lipoxygenase, hydroperoxide lyase and alcohol dehydrogenase to provide green note compound;     (b) collecting the aqueous phase containing green note compound; and   (c) separating green note compound from the aqueous phase.   
 
     
 5. The method according to claim 4, whereby the non-yeast mold of step (a) is contacted simultaneously with the fatty acid and the plant biomass. 
 
     
 6. The method according to claim 4, whereby the non-yeast mold of step (a) is contacted with the fatty acid and plant biomass at least 5 minutes after the fatty acid and plant biomass have begun to react. 
 
     
 7. The method according to claim 4 whereby the non-yeast mold of step (a) is derived from kale. 
 
     
 8. The method according to claim 4 whereby the fatty acid is linolenic acid. 
 
     
 9. The method according to claim 4 whereby the green note compound separated in step (c) is selected from the group consisting of cis-3-hexen-ol, trans-2-hexen-1-ol, trans-3-hexen-1-ol, 1-hexanol, cis-3-penten-3-ol and cis-2-penen-1-ol. 
 
     
 10. The method according to claim 4, whereby the plant biomass of step (a) consists essentially of alfalfa. 
 
     
 11. The method according to claim 4, whereby said collection step (b) is performed on an ion-exchange resin. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
