
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It is claimed: 
   
 1. A purified Non-A Non-B Non-C Non-D Non-E Hepatitis Virus (HGV) polynucleotide having at least 70% sequence identity to a polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEO ID NO:14, its complement, and contiguous fragments thereof of at least 30 nucleotides in length, wherein HGV is characterized by: (i) production of elevated serum alanine aminotransferase levels in an infected primate, (ii) its serological distinction from hepatitis A virus (HAV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), hepatitis D virus, and hepatitis E virus (HEV), (iii) membership in the virus family Flaviviridae and (iv) a viral genome comprising a polynucleotide region that is selectively hybridizable with SEQ ID NO:19.   
 
     
 2. A polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is a DNA polynucleotide. 
 
     
 3. A polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is a RNA polynucleotide. 
 
     
 4. A polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is a recombinant polynucleotide. 
 
     
 5. A polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide encodes an HGV polypeptide antigen. 
 
     
 6. A polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is included within the PNF 2161 cDNA source lambda gt11 library identified by ATCC designation number 75268 or ATCC 75837. 
 
     
 7. A DNA polynucleotide of claim 1 encoding a Non-A Non-B Non-C Non-D Non-E Hepatitis Virus (HGV) polypeptide. 
 
     
 8. A polynucleotide of claim 1 encoding an E2 polypeptide. 
 
     
 9. A polynucleotide of claim 8 comprising a series of bases included within the region extending from base 1149 to base 2183 of SEQ ID NO:14. 
 
     
 10. A polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is obtained from HGV viral particles. 
 
     
 11. A DNA polynucleotide of claim 7, wherein said polypeptide comprises a contiguous sequence of at least 60 amino acids having at least 70% sequence identity to a contiguous region of at least 60 amino acids contained in SEQ ID NO:15. 
 
     
 12. A polynucleotide of claim 1, comprising a probe that specifically hybridizes with an Non-A Non-B Non-C Non-D Non-E Hepatitis Virus (HGV) genome, cDNA or complements thereof. 
 
     
 13. A kit for analyzing a sample for the presence of a Non-A Non-B Non-C Non-D Non-E Hepatitis Virus (HGV) polynucleotide, comprising at least one polynucleotide of claim 1 comprising a probe that will specifically hybridize with an HGV polynucleotide, and   reagents for detecting the presence of HGV polynucleotide/probe complexes formed by hybridization of the HGV polynucleotide with said probe.   
 
     
 14. A kit of claim 13, wherein said kit contains two polynucleotide probes defining an internal region of the HGV polynucleotide and each probe has one strand containing a 3'-end internal to the region. 
 
     
 15. A kit of claim 14, wherein said probes are useful as primers for polymerase chain reaction amplification. 
 
     
 16. A method of detecting a Non-A Non-B Non-C Non-D Non-E Hepatitis Virus (HGV) nucleic acid in a test subject, comprising obtaining a nucleic acid-containing sample from the subject,   combining the sample and at least one polynucleotide probe of claim 12, and   detecting the presence of HGV nucleic acid/probe complexes formed by hybridization of the HGV nucleic acid with said probe.   
 
     
 17. A method of claim 16, wherein said probe contains at least one reporter moiety. 
 
     
 18. A method of claim 16, wherein said detecting further comprises: using two HGV nucleic acid specific probes where the two probes define an internal region of the HGV nucleic acid and each probe has one strand containing a 3'-end internal to the region,   converting the nucleic acid/probe hybridization complexes to double-stranded probe-containing fragments by primer extension reactions,   amplifying the probe-containing fragments by successively repeating the steps of (i) denaturing the double-stranded fragments to produce single-stranded fragments, (ii) hybridizing the single strands with the probes to form strand/probe complexes, (iii) generating double-stranded fragments from the strand/probe complexes in the presence of DNA polymerase and all four deoxyribonucleotides, and (iv) repeating steps (i) to (iii) until a desired degree of amplification has been achieved,   identifying the amplification products.   
 
     
 19. A method of claim 16, wherein said detecting is accomplished by a target amplification method selected from the group consisting of self-sustained sequence replication, ligase chain reaction, and strand displacement amplification. 
 
     
 20. A method of claim 16, wherein said detecting is accomplished employing a signal amplification technique selected from the group consisting of branch-chained DNA probes and the Q-beta replicase method. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
