
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It is claimed: 
   
 1. A recombinant polypeptide which is specifically immunoreactive with sera from humans infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), where said polypeptide includes the peptide sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:8. 
 
     
 2. The polypeptide of claim 1 that is encoded by the polynucleotide sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:7. 
 
     
 3. A method of detecting hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in an individual comprising reacting serum from an HCV-infected test individual with a peptide antigen which is specifically immunoreactive with sera from humans infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), where said peptide antigen includes the peptide sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:8, and   examining the antigen for the presence of bound antibody.   
 
     
 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the peptide antigen is attached to a solid support, said reacting includes reacting the peptide antigen with the support, and subsequently reacting the support with a reporter-labeled anti-human antibody, and said examining includes detecting the presence of reporter-labeled antibody on the solid support. 
 
     
 5. A method of producing a polypeptide which is specifically immunoreactive with sera from humans infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), comprising introducing into a suitable host, a recombinant expression vector containing an open reading frame (ORF) having a polynucleotide sequence which encodes a polypeptide which is specifically immunoreactive with sera from humans infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), where said polypeptide includes the peptide sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:8 and where the vector is designed to express the ORF in said host, and   culturing said host under conditions resulting in the expression of the ORF sequence.   
 
     
 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the polynucleotide has the sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:7. 
 
     
 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the expression vector is a lambda gt11 phage vector, the host is E. coli, and the host containing the introduced vector is identified by ATCC No. 40792. 
 
     
 8. An expression system for expressing a recombinant peptide antigen which is specifically immunoreactive with sera from humans infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), comprising a host capable of supporting expression of an open reading frame in a selected expression vector, and   the selected expression vector containing an open reading frame (ORF) having a polynucleotide sequence which encodes said peptide antigen, where said peptide antigen includes the peptide sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:8.   
 
     
 9. The expression system of claim 8, wherein the polynucleotide has the sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:7. 
 
     
 10. The expression system of claim 9, wherein the expression vector is a lambda gt11 phage vector, the host is E. coli, and the host containing the introduced vector is identified by ATCC No. 40792. 
 
     
 11. A polynucleotide which encodes a polypeptide which is specifically immunoreactive with sera from humans infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), where said polypeptide includes the peptide sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:8. 
 
     
 12. The polynucleotide of claim 11, which includes the polynucleotide sequence presented as SEQ ID NO:7. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
