
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We claim: 
   
 1. A method for immunological assay of an autoimmune disease related antigen in a human body fluid, comprising: contacting a sample comprising said human body fluid, said human body fluid containing IgG Fc-binding protein, with antibodies to IgG Fc-binding protein of human large intestine epithelial cells; and   detecting the antibody-protein complex.   
 
     
 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the antibodies to IgG Fc-binding protein are monoclonal antibodies. 
 
     
 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the monoclonal antibodies are selected from the group consisting of K9 antibodies (FERM BP-6733) and K17 antibodies (FERM BP-6734). 
 
     
 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the immunological assay is ELISA. 
 
     
 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the body fluid is a blood component. 
 
     
 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the blood component is serum. 
 
     
 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the autoimmune disease is ulcerative colitis . 
 
     
 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the autoimmune disease in Crohn's disease. 
 
     
 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the autoimmune disease is systemic lupus erythematosus. 
 
     
 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the autoimmune disease is rheumatoid arthritis. 
 
     
 11. A diagnostic kit for autoimmune disease, comprising: primary antibodies to IgG Fc-binding protein immobilized on a carrier or primary antibodies to IgG Fc-binding protein of human large intestine epithelial cells and a carrier for immobilizing said primary antibodies; and   labeled secondary antibodies to IgG Fc-binding protein of human large intestine epithelial cells.   
 
     
 12. The diagnostic kit for autoimmune disease of claim 11, wherein said primary antibodies are monoclonal. 
 
     
 13. The diagnostic kit for autoimmune disease of claim 12, wherein said primary antibodies are selected from the group consisting of K9 antibodies (FERM BP-6733) and K17 antibodies (FERM BP-6734). 
 
     
 14. The diagnostic kit for autoimmune disease of claim 11, wherein said secondary antibodies are polyclonal. 
 
     
 15. The diagnostic kit for autoimmune disease of claim 11, wherein said primary antibodies are K9 antibodies (FERM BP-6733) and said secondary antibodies are labeled K17 antibodies (FERM BP-6734). 
 
     
 16. The diagnostic kit for autoimmune disease of claim 11, wherein said carrier is a solid carrier. 
 
     
 17. The diagnostic kit for autoimmune disease of claim 11, further comprising a standard curve, an instructional manual or a standard solution of IgG Fc-binding protein. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
