
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
 1. A murine leukemia virus (MLV) based retroviral for delivering a gene of interest to a target cell, wherein the entire Gag, and Env, coding sequences are deleted and th comprises one or two internal ribosomal entry sites. 
 
     
 2. The retroviral vector of claim  1 , wherein the gene of interest is located downstream from both a splice donor site and a splice acceptor site. 
 
     
 3. The retroviral vector of claim  1 , wherein the gene of interest is selected from the group consisting of genes which produces a hormone, an enzyme, a receptor and a drug of interest. 
 
     
 4. The retroviral vector of claim  1 , wherein all or part of at least one U3 sequence of a 5′LTR and a 3′LTR obtained from a retrovirus is substituted with a major immediate-early promoter of human cytomegalovirus which is selected from the group consisting of CR, CCI, CCII and CP. 
 
     
 5. The retroviral vector of claim  4 , which further comprises a multicloning site at the truncated U3 of the 3′LTR, to facilitate the insertion of the major immediate-early promoter of human cytomegalovirus or the fragment thereof which is selected from the group consisting of CR, CCI, CCII and CP thereto. 
 
     
 6. The retroviral vector of claim  4 , wherein the major immediate-early promoter of human cytomegalovirus is regulated at the transcription level by the aid of a chemical or a biological molecule. 
 
     
 7. The retroviral vector of claim  6 , wherein the biological molecule is selected from the group consisting of hormone, growth factor, enzyme, lymphokine and cytokine. 
 
     
 8. The retroviral vector of claim  1 , wherein the internal ribosomal entry sites are obtained from murine encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) or foot and mouth disease virus (FMDV). 
 
     
 9. The retroviral vector of claim  1 , wherein each of the two internal ribosomal entry sites are obtained from viral sources different from each other. 
 
     
 10. The retroviral vector of claim  1 , which further comprises a multicloning site downstream from the splice acceptor site or upstream from the internal ribosomal entry sites, to facilitate the insertion of a gene of interest. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
