
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
 1. A biotin overproducing recombinant cell transformed with an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene, said recombinant cell being capable of producing more biotin than a cell not transformed with an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene. 
 
     
 2. The recombinant cell of claim  1  selected from the group consisting of bacteria and yeast. 
 
     
 3. The recombinant cell of claim  1 , wherein said recombinant cell is of the species  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 4. The recombinant cell of claim  1 , wherein said  Escherichia coli  bioH gene is operatively linked to a transcription control sequence to form a recombinant molecule. 
 
     
 5. The recombinant cell of claim  4 , wherein said transcription control sequence comprises a bacteriophage T7 or a tac transcription control sequence. 
 
     
 6. The recombinant cell of claim  1 , wherein said recombinant cell is also transformed with at least one nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of  Escherichia coli  bioA, bioB, bioC, bioD, bioE, and bioF genes. 
 
     
 7. The recombinant cell of claim  6 , wherein said  Escherichia coli  bioH gene and said nucleic acid sequence are operatively linked to at least one transcription control sequence to form at least one recombinant molecule. 
 
     
 8. The recombinant cell of claim  1  transformed with (a) an  Escherichia coli  bioA gene; (b) an  Escherichia coli  bioB gene; (c) an  Escherichia coli  bioC gene; (d) an  Escherichia coli  bioD gene; (e) an  Escherichia coli  bioE gene; (f) an  Escherichia coli  bioF gene; and (g) an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene. 
 
     
 9. The recombinant cell of claim  1 , wherein said recombinant cell is capable of producing at least about fifty percent more biotin than a cell not transformed with an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene. 
 
     
 10. The recombinant cell of claim  1  comprising an  Escherichia coli  transformed with recombinant molecule pCRH ′col . 
 
     
 11. The recombinant cell of claim  1 , wherein the said recombinant cell is  Escherichia coli  BL21/DE3-pCKRH′ col +pDIPA col E col B col F col C col D col . 
 
     
 12. The recombinant cell of claim  1  produced by a method comprising: 
 (a) operatively linking said  Escherichia coli  bioH gene to a transcription control sequence to form a recombinant molecule; and  
 (b) transforming said recombinant molecule into a host cell to form said recombinant cell.  
 
     
 13. The recombinant cell of claim  12 , wherein indigenous production of biotin by said host cell is deregulated. 
 
     
 14. The recombinant cell of claim  6  produced by a method comprising: 
 (a) operatively linking said  Escherichia coli  bioH gene and at least one nucleic acid sequence selected from said group to at least one transcription control sequence to form at least one recombinant molecule; and  
 (b) transforming said recombinant molecule(s) into a host cell to form said recombinant cell.  
 
     
 15. A recombinant molecule comprising an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene, operatively linked to a transcription control sequence selected from the group consisting of bacterial and yeast transcription control sequences. 
 
     
 16. The recombinant molecule of claim  15  further comprising at least one nucleic acid selected from the group consisting of  Escherichia coli  bioA, bioB, bioC, bioD, bioE, and bioF genes operatively linked to at least one transcription control sequence selected from the group consisting of bacterial and yeast transcription control sequences. 
 
     
 17. The recombinant molecule of claim  15 , wherein said transcription control sequence is selected from the group consisting of Escherichia, Bacillus, Pseudomonas, Salmonella, Corynebacterium, and Saccharomyces transcription control sequences. 
 
     
 18. The recombinant molecule of claim  15 , wherein said transcription control sequence comprises a bacteriophage T7 or tac transcription control sequence. 
 
     
 19. The recombinant molecule of claim  15 , wherein said recombinant molecule comprises a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of H col , B col H col , E col H col , E col B col H col , E col B col D col H col , E col B col D col A col H col , E col B col D col A col F col H col , E col B col D col A col F col C col H col . 
 
     
 20. The recombinant molecule of claim  15 , wherein said recombinant molecule is pCKRH′ col . 
 
     
 21. A method to produce a recombinant cell comprising transforming a host cell with an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene, said recombinant cell being capable of producing more biotin than a cell not transformed with an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene. 
 
     
 22. The method of claim  21  further comprising transforming said host cell with at least one nucleic acid selected from the group consisting of  Escherichia coli  bioA, bioB, bioC, bioD, bioE, and bioF genes. 
 
     
 23. A method to produce biotin comprising: 
 (a) culturing in a medium effective to produce biotin a biotin overproducing recombinant cell transformed with an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene, said recombinant cell being capable of producing more biotin than a cell not transformed with an  Escherichia coli  bioH gene; and  
 (b) recovering biotin produced thereby.  
 
     
 24. The method of claim  23 , wherein said recombinant cell is also transformed with at least one nucleic acid selected from the group consisting of  Escherichia coli  bioA, bioB, bioC, bioD, bioE, and bioF genes. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
