
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
 1. An isolated ATP binding cassette transporter (ABC transporter) from  Psedomonas fluorescens  SIK W1 (KCTC 2689P) which consists of DNA sequence SEQ ID NO: 4, SEQ ID NO: 5 and SEQ ID NO: 6 linked in sequential order. 
 
     
 2. An expression vector which comprises the ABC transporter of claim  1 . 
 
     
 3. An expression vector of claim  2 , where the expression vector is pACYC184. 
 
     
 4. A recombinant microorganism transformed with the expression vector of claim  3 . 
 
     
 5.  Escherichia coli  XL1-Blue which is transformed with the expression vector of claim  3 . 
 
     
 6. An expression vector which produces foreign protein, being transformed into a recombinant microorganism together with an expression vector comprising the ABC transporter of claim  1 , to secrete foreign protein extracellularly. 
 
     
 7. An expression vector pHOPE which produces lipase, being transformed into a recombinant microorganism together with the expression vector comprising the ABC transporter of claim  1 , to secrete lipase extracelluarly. 
 
     
 8. An expression vector pPROT705 which produces protease, being transformed into a recombinant microorganism together with the expression vector comprising the ABC transporter of claim  1 , to secrete protease extracelluarly. 
 
     
 9. An expression vector comprising a foreign protein gene and the ABC transporter of claim  1 , being transformed into a recombinant microorganism, to secrete foreign protein extracelluarly. 
 
     
 10. A microorganism transformed with the expression vector of claim  9 . 
 
     
 11. A process for preparing a foreign protein comprising a step of culturing a microorganism transformed with two expression vectors, where the first expression vector comprises foreign protein and the second vector comprises ABC transporter to secrete the foreign protein extracellularly. 
 
     
 12. The process of claim  11  wherein the expression vector for ABC transporter is pACYC184. 
 
     
 13. The process of claim  11  wherein the microorganism is  Escherichia coli , Pseudomonas sp. , Xanthomonas sp. or Erwinia sp. 
 
     
 14. The process of claim  11  wherein the transformant is cultured at 15-27° C. 
 
     
 15. A process for preparing a foreign protein comprising a step of culturing a microorganism transformed with an expression vector which expresses both foreign protein and ABC transporter, to secrete the foreign protein extracellularly. 
 
     
 16. The process of claim  15  wherein the microorganism is  Escherichia coli , Pseudomonas sp., Xanthomonas sp. or Erwinia sp. 
 
     
 17. The process of claim  15  wherein the transformant is cultured at 15-27° C. 
 
     
 18. The  Escherichia coli  XL1-Blue of claim  3  which has the Korean Collection for Type Cultures accession number of KCTC 0586BP. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
