
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What we claim is:  
   
 1. A transformed seed-producing plant, or a part thereof, of the Crucifera family containing an exogenous DNA sequence operably linked to a promoter for expression of a polypeptide that acts as a CYP84 monooxygenase enzyme, or a polypeptide that is an antisense equivalent of a CYP84 monooxygenase enzyme, or a polypeptide that is a catalytic fragment or derivative of the monooxygenase enzyme or antisense equivalent that does not alter the function of the CYP84 enzyme or antisense equivalent, and which plant or plant part has a reduced content of sinapine in seeds thereof compared to vector control plants or plant parts of the same species lacking the exogenous DNA sequence, wherein the exogenous DNA sequence is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2 and SEQ ID NO:3, or is a sequence complementary to a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2 and SEQ ID NO:3, or is an analogue, homologue or derivative thereof, or a sequence having at least 40% identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2 and SEQ ID NO:3, or at least 40% identity with a sequence complementary thereto. 
 
     
 2. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:3 or SEQ ID NO:5, or an active fragment, derivative, homolog or analog thereof, or a sequence that is complementary to SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:3 or SEQ ID NO:5, or an active fragment thereof, derivative, homolog or analog thereof, or a sequence having at least 90% identity to said sequence or complementary sequence. 
 
     
 3. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 2 , comprising the sequence of nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
 4. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 2 , comprising the sequence of nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
     
 5. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 2 , comprising the sequence of nucleotides SEQ ID NO:5. 
 
     
 6. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 2 , comprising a sequence that is complementary to SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
 7. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 2 , comprising a sequence of nucleotides that is complementary to SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
     
 8. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 2 , comprising a sequence of nucleotides that is complementary to SEQ ID NO:5. 
 
     
 9. A vector for transforming plants of the crucifera family, said vector comprising a promoter, a start codon, a sequence operably linked to said promoter, selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:3, and SEQ ID NO:5, or a sequence complementary thereto, or an active fragment, homolog, analog or derivative of said sequence or complementary sequence, and a stop codon. 
 
     
 10. The vector of  claim 9 , wherein the promoter is the CaMV 35S promoter. 
 
     
 11. The vector of  claim 9 , wherein the promoter is the napin promoter. 
 
     
 12. Plasmid identified by Accession No. IDAC 020500-5. 
 
     
 13. Plasmid identified by Accession No. IDAC 020500-6. 
 
     
 14. Plasmid identified by Accession No. IDAC 020500-7. 
 
     
 15. A transgenic  Brassica napus  plant, or part thereof, transformed with the vector of  claim 9 . 
 
     
 16. A chimeric gene causing reduced sinapine content in plant cells of the Crucifera family transformed with the chimeric gene, the chimeric gent comprising: 
 a regultory nucleotide sequence; and  
 a nucleic acid fragment encoding an active plant CYP84 enzyme having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:2, DSEQ ID NO:4 or SEQ ID NO:6; and  
 wherein the nucleic acid fragment is operable linked in either the sense or antisense orientation to the regulatory sequence.  
 
     
 17. The chimeric gene of  claim 16  wherein the CYP84 enzyme is a F5H enzyme. 
 
     
 18. The chimeric gene of  claim 16  wherein the nucleic acid fragment is operably linked in the sense orientation to said regulatory sequence. 
 
     
 19. The chimeric gene of  claim 16  wherein the nucleic acid fragment is operably linked in the antisense orientation to said regulatory sequence. 
 
     
 20. The chimeric gene of  claim 16  wherein the regulatory sequence comprises a promoter selected from the group consisting of a napin promoter, a phaseolin promoter, an oleosin promoter and a cruciferin promoter. 
 
     
 21. The chimeric gene of  claim 16  wherein the regulatory sequence comprises an endogenous plant promoter effective for controlling expression of a plant CYP84 gene. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
