
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
 1. A process for producing 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid from acetone cyanohydrin comprising 
 (a) contacting acetone cyanohydrin in a suitable aqueous reaction mixture with a catalyst characterized by nitrilase activity derived from  Acidovorax facilis  72W or by a combination of nitrile hydratase and amidase activities derived from  Comamonas testosteroni , wherein the catalyst characterized by nitrile hydratase and amidase activity is in the form of microbial cells selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas testosteroni  5-MGAM4D ATCC 55744 and  Comamonas testosteroni  22-1 ATCC PTA-1853, and microbial cells transformed to express  Comamonas testosteroni  5-MGAM-4D ATCC 55744 or  Comamonas testosteroni  22-1 ATCC PTA-1853 nitrile hydratase and amidase activities; and  
 (b) isolating the 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid produced in (a) in the form of a salt or acid.  
 
     
 2. A process for producing methacrylic acid from acetone cyanohydrin comprising 
 (a) contacting acetone cyanohydrin in a suitable aqueous reaction mixture with a catalyst characterized by nitrilase activity derived from  Acidovorax facilis  72W or by a combination of nitrile hydratase and amidase activities derived from  Comamonas testosteroni , wherein the catalyst characterized by nitrile hydratase and amidase activity is in the form of microbial cells selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas testosteroni  5-MGAM-4D ATCC 55744 and  Comamonas testosteroni  22-1 ATCC PTA-1853, and microbial cells transformed to express  Comamonas testosteroni  5-MGAM-4D ATCC 55744 or  Comamonas testosteroni  22-1 ATCC PTA-1853 nitrile hydratase and amidase activities;  
 (b) dehydrating the 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid produced in (a); and  
 (c) isolating the methacrylic acid produced in (b) in the form of a salt or acid.  
 
     
 3. The process of  claim 1  or  2 , wherein the catalyst characterized by nitrilase activity is in the form of microbial cells selected from the group consisting of  Acidovorax facilis  72-PF-15 ATCC 55747 , Acidovorax facilis  72-PF-17 ATCC 55745, microbial cells transformed to express  Acidovorax facilis  72W nitrilase activity, and  Acidovorax facilis  72W heated before step (a) to a temperature whereby the nitrile hydratase activity and amidase activity are destroyed and the nitrilase activity is preserved. 
 
     
 4. The process of  claim 3  wherein the microbial cells transformed to express  Acidovorax facilis  72W nitrilase activity are  Escherichia coli  SS1001 ATCC PTA-1177 or  Escherichia coli  SW91 ATCC PTA-1175. 
 
     
 5. A process for producing 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid from acetone Cyanohydrin comprising 
 (a) contacting acetone cyanohydrin in a suitable aqueous reaction mixture with a catalyst characterized by nitrilase activity and nitrite hydratase and amidase activities derived from  Acidovorax facilis  72W; and  
 (b) isolating the 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid produced in (a) in the form of a salt or acid.  
 
     
 6. A process for producing methacrylic acid from acetone cyanohydrin comprising 
 (a) contacting acetone cyanohydrin in a suitable aqueous reaction mixture with a catalyst characterized by nitrilase activity and nitrile hydratase and amidase activities derived from  Acidovorax facilis  72W;  
 (b) dehydrating the 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid produced in (a); and  
 (c) isolating the methacrylic acid produced in (b) in the form of a salt or acid.  
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 1 ,  2 ,  5 , or  6  wherein the catalyst is in the form of intact microbial cells, permeabilized microbial cells, one or more cell components of a microbial cell extract, partially purified enzyme(s), or purified enzyme(s). 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 7  wherein the catalyst is immobilized in or on a soluble or insoluble support. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
