
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed:  
   
 1. A method for producing polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) and its copolymers comprising culturing a host cell transformed with a vector comprising a PHA biosynthesis-related DNA fragment, 
 wherein said DNA fragment is isolated from  Alcaligenes latus  and comprises three open reading frames operatively connected in the following order from 5′ to 3′:  
 (a) a gene encoding PHA synthase whose protein sequence is set forth in SEQ ID NO:5,  
 (b) a gene encoding β-ketothiolase whose protein sequence is set forth in SEQ ID NO:6, and  
 (c) a gene encoding acetoacetyl-CoA reductase whose protein sequence is set forth in SEQ ID NO:7.  
 
     
 2. The method as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the gene for polyhydroxyalkanoate synthase has the base sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
     
 3. The method as set forth in  claim 1  wherein the gene for β-ketothiolase has the base sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
     
 4. The method as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the gene for acetoacetyl-CoA reductase has the base sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:4. 
 
     
 5. The method as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the polyhydroxyalkanoate biosynthesis-related DNA fragment has the base sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
 6. The method as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the vector is an expression vector comprising an expression control sequence operatively linked to the polyhydroxyalkanoate biosynthesis-related DNA fragment. 
 
     
 7. The method as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the vector is pJC1. 
 
     
 8. The method as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the host cell is a prokaryote. 
 
     
 9. The method as set forth in  claim 8 , wherein the host cell is an  E. coli.    
 
     
 10. The method as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the host cell is  E. coli  transformant XL1-Blue/pJC1 deposited as KCTC 0398BP. 
 
     
 11. A method for producing polyhydroxyalkanoate and its copolymers, by culturing a host cell transformed with pKTC32. 
 
     
 12. A method for producing polyhydroxyalkanoate and its copolymers, by culturing an  Alcaligenes eutropus  deposited as KCTC 0568BP. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
