
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
 1. A biologically pure culture of Enterobacter sp. having all of the identifying characteristics of Enterobacter sp. SSYL deposited under accession number KCTC 0687BP. 
 
     
 2. A method of producing an exopolysaccharide, comprising: 
 providing cells of a biologically pure culture of Enterobacter sp. having all of the identifying characteristics of Enterobacter sp. SSYL deposited under accession number KCTC 0687BP;  
 culturing the cells in a medium culture so as to allow production of the exopolysaccharide.  
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 2 , further comprising: 
 isolating the exopolysaccharide from a mixture comprising the culture medium, the cells and the exopolysaccharide.  
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 2 , wherein the culture medium comprises a carbon source selected from the group consisting of glucose, sucrose, fructose, rhamnose, galactose, arbinose, mannitol, lactose, gluconate, xylose and mixtures thereof. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 2 , wherein the culturing is performed at a temperature in a range from about 25° C. to about 38° C. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 2 , wherein the culturing is performed under aeration at a flow rate in a range from about 0.1 vvm to about 1.5 vvm. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 2 , wherein the culturing is performed under agitation at an agitation speed in a range from about 150 to about 500 rpm. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 3 , wherein the isolation of the exopolysaccharide comprises: 
 removing cells from the mixture; and  
 dialyzing a resulting mixture so as to isolate the exopolysaccharide.  
 
     
 9. The method of  claim 3 , wherein the isolation of the exopolysaccharide comprises: 
 centrifuging the culture mixture to obtain a supernatant;  
 precipitating a mixture comprising the exopolysaccharide;  
 dissolving the precipitate in a liquid; and  
 removing remaining cells.  
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 8 , further comprising lyophilizing the dialyzed precipitate. 
 
     
 11. A composition comprising the exopolysaccharide obtained by the method of  claim 2 . 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
