
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method for generating an adenoviral vector comprising welding together two nucleic acid molecules wherein said two nucleic acid molecules comprise partially overlapping sequences capable of combining with one another allowing the generation of a physically linked nucleic acid comprising at least two functional adenovirus inverted terminal repeats, a functional encapsulation signal and a nucleic acid encoding at least one adenoviral E1-region protein, at least one adenoviral E2-region encoded protein and/or at least one adenoviral E4-region encoded protein and a nucleic acid sequence of interest or functional parts thereof and wherein at least one of said E1-region encoded proteins is under transcriptional control of a conditionally active promoter. 
 
     
 2. A method for generating an adenoviral vector comprising welding together, through homologous recombination, two nucleic acid molecules comprising partially overlapping sequences wherein said overlapping sequences of each nucleic acid molecule of said two nucleic acid molecules comprise essentially only one continuous sequence such that homologous recombination may occur, leading to the generation of a physically linked nucleic acid comprising at least two functional adenovirus inverted terminal repeats, a functional encapsulation signal and a nucleic acid sequence of interest or functional parts thereof; at least one nucleic acid molecule of said two nucleic acid molecules comprising a chimeric adenoviral capsid encoding nucleic acid comprising nucleic acid sequences from two different adenovirus serotypes, wherein said welding together is performed in a cell as deposited at the ECACC under number 96022940. 
 
     
 3. A method for generating an adenoviral vector comprising welding together through homologous recombination, two nucleic acid molecules comprising partially overlapping sequences wherein said overlapping sequences of each nucleic acid molecule of said two nucleic acid molecules comprise essentially only one continuous sequence whereby homologous recombination may occur, leading to the generation of a physically linked nucleic acid comprising at least two functional adenovirus inverted terminal repeats, a functional encapsulation signal, a nucleic acid encoding at least one adenoviral E1-region protein, at least one adenoviral E2-region encoded protein and/or at least one adenoviral E4-region encoded protein and a nucleic acid sequence of interest or functional parts thereof and wherein at least one of said E1-region encoded proteins is under transcriptional control of a conditionally active promoter. 
 
     
 4. A method for generating an adenoviral vector comprising welding together through homologous recombination two nucleic acid molecules, wherein said two nucleic acid molecules comprise partially overlapping sequences capable of combining with one another allowing the generation of a physically linked nucleic acid comprising at least two functional adenovirus inverted terminal repeats, a functional encapsulation signal and a nucleic acid sequence of interest or functional parts thereof; at least one of said molecules comprising a chimeric adenoviral capsid encoding nucleic acid comprising nucleic acid sequences from two different adenovirus serotypes, wherein said welding together is performed in a cell as deposited at the ECACC under number 96022940. 
 
     
 5. The method according to  claim 4 , wherein at least one of said two nucleic acid molecules is derived from an adenoviral vector library, said adenoviral vector library comprising a multitude of nucleic acid molecules including different nucleic acids of interest. 
 
     
 6. A method for generating an adenoviral vector comprising welding together at least two nucleic acid molecules wherein said at least two nucleic acid molecules comprise partially overlapping sequences capable of combining with one another allowing the generation of a physically linked nucleic acid comprising at least two functional adenovirus inverted terminal repeats, a functional encapsulation signal and a nucleic acid sequence of interest; at least one of said at least two nucleic acid molecules comprising a chimeric adenoviral capsid encoding nucleic acid comprising nucleic acid sequences from at least two different adenovirus serotypes, wherein said welding together is performed through homologous recombination of overlapping sequences in the nucleic acid and wherein said welding together is performed in a cell as deposited at the ECACC under number 96022940. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein said capsid protein is a hexon protein. 
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein said capsid protein is a penton base protein. 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein said capsid protein is a fiber protein. 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein said capsid protein includes at least a part of a fiber protein of a subgroup B-type adenovirus. 
 
     
 11. The method according to  claim 10 , wherein said subgroup B-type adenovirus is adenovirus 16. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
