
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated nucleic acid fragment comprising a first nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide with nitrilase activity having at least 95% identity as compared to a polypeptide encoded by the sequence identified in SEQ ID NO:5, or a second nucleotide sequence comprising the complement of the first nucleotide sequence. 
 
     
 2. A chimeric gene comprising the isolated nucleic acid fragment of  claim 1  operably linked to suitable regulatory sequences. 
 
     
 3. A plasmid pnitex2 contained in  E. coli  SS1001 having the designation ATCC PTA-1177. 
 
     
 4. An expression cassette comprising the chimeric gene of  claim 2 . 
 
     
 5. The expression cassette of  claim 4  comprising plasmid pnitex2. 
 
     
 6. A transformed microorganism comprising the chimeric gene  claim 2 . 
 
     
 7. A transformed microorganism comprising the plasmid of  claim 3 . 
 
     
 8. A transformed microorganism comprising the expression cassette of  claim 4 . 
 
     
 9. The transformed microorganism of  claim 8  wherein the expression cassette is chromosomally integrated. 
 
     
 10. The transformed microorganism of  claim 9  further comprising suitable regulatory sequences. 
 
     
 11. The transformed microorganism of  claim 10  wherein the suitable regulatory sequences comprise
 a) at least one promoter selected from the group consisting of the tryptophan operon promoter Ptrp of  E. coli , a lactose operon promoter Plac of  E. coli , a Ptac promoter of  E. coli , a phage lambda right promoter PR, a phage lambda left promoter PL, a T7 promoter, a promoter of the AOX1 gene from  Pichia pastoris , and a promoter of the GAP gene from  Pichia pastoris , or is at least one strong promoter selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas, Corynebacterium, Brevibacterium, Rhodococcus, Azotobacter, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Clostridium, Klebsiella, Salmonella, Lactobacillus, Aspergillus, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Zygosaccharomyces, Kluyveromyces, Candida, Hansenula, Dunaliella, Debaryomyces, Mucor, Torulopsis, Methylobacteria, Bacillus, Escherichia, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium , and  Streptomyces , and  
 b) at least one ribosome binding site from a phage lambda CII gene or selected from the group consisting of ribosome binding sites from a gene of  Comamonas, Corynebacterium, Brevibacterium, Rhodococcus, Azotobacter, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Clostridium, Klebsiella, Salmonella, Lactobacillus, Aspergillus, Saccharomyces, Zygosaccharomyces, Pichia, Kluyveromyces, Candida, Hansenula, Dunaliella, Debaryomyces, Mucor, Torulopsis, Methylobacteria, Bacillus, Escherichia, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium , and  Streptomyces.    
 
 
     
 12. The transformed microorganism of  claim 11 , wherein the host microorganism is selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas, Corynebacterium, Brevibacterium, Rhodococcus, Azotobacter, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Clostridium, Klebsiella, Salmonella, Lactobacillus, Aspergillus, Saccharomyces, Zygosaccharomyces, Pichia, Kluyveromyces, Candida, Hansenula, Dunaliella, Debaryomyces, Mucor, Torulopsis, Methylobacteria, Bacillus, Escherichia, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium , and  Streptomyces.    
 
     
 13. A transformed microorganism  E. coli  SS1001 having the designation ATCC PTA-1177. 
 
     
 14. The transformed microorganism of  claim 12 , wherein the host microorganism is  E. coli  strains MG1655 (ATCC 47076), W3110 (ATCC 27325), MC4100 (ATCC 35695), or W1485 (ATCC 12435). 
 
     
 15. An isolated nucleic acid fragment encoding a polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:5. 
 
     
 16. An isolated nucleic acid fragment comprising a first nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide with nitrilase activity having at least 95% identity as compared to a polypeptide encoded by the sequence identified in SEQ ID NO:5. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
