
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule of SEQ ID NO: 18, encoding carotenoid biosynthetic pathway enzymes, comprising a polynucleotide wherein the genetic organization of the polynucleotides is: crtE-idi-crtY-crtI-crtB-crtZ, wherein the crtE-idi-crtY-crtI-crtB-crtZ genes are clustered in the order stated and wherein the transcription of the crtZ occurs in opposite orientation to that of criE-idi-crtY-crtI-crtB. 
 
     
 2. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1  consisting of the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 18. 
 
     
 3. An isolated nucleic acid molecule as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 18, wherein said nucleic acid molecule encodes crtE, idi, crtY, crtI, crtB and crtZ or an isolated nucleic acid molecule having at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO: 18, wherein said isolated nucleic acid molecule encodes the following enzymes: Geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase (crtE), isopentenyl pyrophosphate (idi), lycopene cyclase (crtY), phytoene desaturase (crtI), phytoene synthase (crtB) and beta-carotene hydroxylase (crtZ). 
 
     
 4. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1  isolated from  Pantoea agglomerans  strain DC404. 
 
     
 5. A vector comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 3 . 
 
     
 6. A transformed host comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 3 . 
 
     
 7. The transformed host cell of  claim 6  wherein the host cell is selected from the group-consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, algae, and green plants. 
 
     
 8. The transformed host cell of  claim 6  wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Hansenula, Yarrowia, Rhodosporidium, Lipomyces, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Flavobacterium, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Escherichia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas, Torulopsis, Rhodotorula , and  Phaffia.    
 
     
 9. A method for the production of carotenoid compounds comprising:
 (a) providing a transformed host cell comprising: 
 (i) suitable levels of farnesyl pyrophosphate; and  
 (ii) a the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 6  under the control of suitable regulatory sequences;  
 
 (b) contacting the host cell of step (a) under suitable growth conditions with an effective amount of a fermentable carbon substrate whereby a carotenoid compound is produced.  
 
 
     
 10. A method according to any  claim 9  wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of C1 metabolizing hosts, bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, algae, and green plants. 
 
     
 11. A method according to  claim 10  wherein the C1 metabolizing host is a methanotroph and the fermentable carbon substrate is selected from the group consisting of methane, methanol, formaldehyde, formic acid, methylated amines, methylated thiols, and carbon dioxide. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
