
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method for the production of C 30 -aldehyde carotenoid compounds comprising:
 (a) providing a transformed host cell comprising:
 (i) suitable levels of farnesyl pyrophosphate; 
 (ii) at least one isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an enzyme having diapophytoene synthase activity under the control of suitable regulatory sequences wherein the isolated nucleic acid molecule is selected from the group consisting of
 1) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:2; 
 2) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:10; and 
 3) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (1) or (2) under the following hybridization conditions:0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS; 
 
 (iii) at least one isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an enzyme having diapophytoene desaturase activity under the control of suitable regulatory sequences wherein the isolated nucleic acid molecule is selected from the group consisting of;
 1) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:4; 
 2) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:12; and 
 3) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (1) or (2) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS; and 
 
 (iv) at least one isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an enzyme having the ability to introduce an omega-aldehyde functional group on the omega carbon of a conjugated polyene carbon skeleton under the control of suitable regulatory sequences; wherein the isolated nucleic acid molecule is selected from the group consisting of;
 1) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:8; 
 2) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:14; and 
 3) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (1) or (2) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS; and 
 
 
 (b) contacting the host cell of step (a) under suitable growth conditions with an effective amount of fermentable carbon substrate whereby a C 30 -aldehyde carotenoid compound is produced. 
 
 
     
 2. A method according to  claim 1  wherein the C 30 -aldehyde carotenoid compound is selected form the group consisting of: diaponeurosporene monoaldehyde, diapocarotene monoaldehyde, diapocarotene dialdehyde and functional derivatives thereof. 
 
     
 3. A method according to  claim 1  wherein the suitable levels of farnesyl pyrophosphate are provided by the over-expression of heterologous upper pathway isoprenoid pathway genes. 
 
     
 4. A method according to  claim 3  wherein said upper pathway isoprenoid genes are selected from the group consisting of D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate synthase (dxs), D-1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase (dxr), 2C-methyl-D-erythritol cytidylyltransferase (ispD), 4-diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methylerythritol kinase (ispE), 2C-methyl-d-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase (ispF), CTP synthase (pyrG), lytB, gcpE, idi, and farnesyl diphosphate synthase (ispA). 
 
     
 5. A method according to  claim 4  wherein said over-expressed upper pathway isoprenoid genes are dxs and idi and wherein said over-expression is the result of up-regulating the promoter activity upstream of each gene. 
 
     
 6. A method according to  claim 1  wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, algae, and green plants. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Phaffia, Pichia, Candida, Rhodotorula, Rhodosporidium, Hansenula, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter, Chlorobium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Methylobacterium, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, Myxococcus , and  Staphylococcus.    
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 7 , wherein the transformed host cell is  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of soybean, rapeseed pepper, sunflower cotton corn, tobacco alfalfa wheat barley oats sorghum rice  Arabidopsis , cruciferous vegetables, melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, marigold, and forage grasses. 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Spirulina, Haemotacoccus , and  Dunalliela.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
