
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a mutant phytoene desaturase comprising:
 a) a nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:18 and 20; or 
 b) is completely complementary to (a). 
 
 
     
 2. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1  selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:17 and 19. 
 
     
 3. A recombinant host cell comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1  or  2 , wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, algae, yeast, or filamentous fungi. 
 
     
 4. A method for the production of tetradehydrolycopene comprising:
 a) providing a recombinant host cell comprising:
 i) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a mutant phytoene desaturase having the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:18 and SEQ ID NO:20; 
 ii) a phytoene desaturase substrate; 
 
 b) growing the recombinant host cell of (a) under conditions whereby the isolated nucleic acid molecule of (a)(i) is expressed and the phytoene desaturase substrate is converted to tetradehydrolycopene; and 
 c) optionally recovering the tetradehydrolycopene. 
 
 
     
 5. A method for the production of Tetradehydrolycopene comprising:
 a) providing a recombinant host cell comprising:
 i) a functional isoprenoid biosynthesis pathway, said isoprenoid biosynthesis pathway comprising at least one copy of the genes dxs, ispC, ispD, ispE, tspF, ispG, ispH, idi, and ispA; wherein one or more of the isoprenoid pathway genes is upregulated; 
 ii) a functional earotenoid biosynthesis pathway, said carotenoid biosynthesis pathway comprising at least one copy of the genes crtF, crtB, and crtl; 
 wherein one or more of the carotenoid biosynthesis genes are upregulated; 
 iii) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a mutant phytoene desaturase having the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:18 and SEQ ID NO:20; said isolated nucleic acid molecule operably linked to suitable regulatory sequence; and 
 
 b) growing the recombinant host cell of (a) under conditions whereby the isolated nucleic acid molecule of (a) is expressed and Tetradehydrolycopene is produced; and 
 c) optionally recovering the tetradehydrolycopene. 
 
 
     
 6. A method according to either  claim 4  or  5  wherein the recombinant host cell is selected from the group consisting of:
 a) a bacterium selected from the group consisting of  Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Eseherichia, Pseudomon as, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Alcaligenes, Synechocysils, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobactertum, Kiebsiella, Burkiiolderia, Sphingornonas, Paracoccus, Pandoraea, Deiftia , and  Comamonas;    
 b) a yeast selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichodenna, Soecharomyces, Pichia, Candida,  and  Hansenula;    
 c) an algal species selected from the group consisting of  Spirulina, Haemotacoccus , and  Dunalliela .; and 
 d) a plant cell selected from the group consisting of soybean, rapeseed ( Brassica napus, K campestris ), sunflower ( Helian thus annus ), cotton ( Gossypium hirsutum ), corn, tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum ), alfalfa ( Medicago sativa ), wheat ( Triticum sp ), barley ( Hordeum vulgare ), oats ( Avena saliva, L ), sorghum ( Sorghum bicolor ), rice ( Otyza saliva ),  Arabidopsis , coniferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, parsnips, etc.), melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, and forage grasses. 
 
 
     
 7. The recombinant host cell of  claim 6  wherein the bacterium is  Escherichia colt.    
 
     
 8. A method according to  claim 4  wherein the phytoene desaturase substrate is selected from the group consisting of phytoene, phytofluene, ξ-carotene, neurosporene, and lycopene. 
 
     
 9. A method according to either  claim 4  or  5  wherein the tetradehydrolycopene is produced at a concentration of at least 150 ppm. 
 
     
 10. A method according to ether  claim 4  or  5  wherein the tetradehydrolycopene is produced at levels of at least 10% of the total carotenoids produced by the host cell. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
