
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an oxygen binding protein selected from the group consisting of:
 (a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:2, 4, and 6; 
 (b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C.; 
 (c) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, and 6; and 
 (d) An isolated nucleic acid that is fully complementary to the full-length sequence (a), (b), or (c). 
 
 
     
 2. The isolated nucleic acid molecule according to  claim 1  selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, and 5. 
 
     
 3. An isolated transformed host cell comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 4. The transformed host cell of  claim 3  wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, and algae. 
 
     
 5. The transformed host cell of  claim 4  wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Phaffia, Candida, Hansenula, Yarrowia, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter, Chlorobium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella , and  Myxococcus.    
 
     
 6. The transformed host cell of  claim 4  wherein the host cell is a methylotrophic bacteria. 
 
     
 7. The transformed host cell of  claim 6  wherein the methylotrophic bacteria is a methanotrophic bacteria. 
 
     
 8. The transformed host cell of  claim 7  wherein methanotrophic bacteria is  Methylomonas  sp. 16a (ATCC PTA-2402) or a derivative thereof. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
