
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A recombinant microbial production host for the production of hydrophobic compounds comprising:
 a) an intracellular system comprising heterologous genetic construct for the production of a hydrophobic compound; and 
 b) at least one genetic construct encoding an oleosin polypeptide having an amino acid sequence comprising an oleosin diagnostic motif, said motif having about 70% identity to the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 70; wherein the hydrophobic compound is selected from the group consisting of isoprenoids, carotenoids, quinones, dolichols, tocopherols, fatty acids, terpenes, steroids, chlorophylles, polyhydroxyalkanoates, and natural rubber. 
 
 
     
 2. A production host according to  claim 1  selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, and algae. 
 
     
 3. A production host according to  claim 2  wherein the bacteria is selected from the group consisting of  Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Escherichia, Pseudomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, Burkholderia, Sphingomonas, Paracoccus, Pandoraea, Delftia , and  Comamonas.    
 
     
 4. A production host according to  claim 2  wherein the yeast is selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Yarrowia , and  Hansenula.    
 
     
 5. A production host according to  claim 2  wherein the algae is selected from the group consisting of  Spirulina, Haemotacoccus , and  Dunalliela.    
 
     
 6. A production host according to  claim 1  wherein said an amino acid sequence comprising an oleosin diagnostic motif has at least 75% similarity to SEQ ID NO: 70. 
 
     
 7. A production host according to  claim 1  wherein said oleosin genetic construct is operably linked to a suitable promoter. 
 
     
 8. A production host according to  claim 7  wherein said suitable promoter in constitutive. 
 
     
 9. A production host according to  claim 7  wherein said suitable promoter is inducible. 
 
     
 10. A production host according to  claim 1  wherein said oleosin construct is chromosomally or extrachromosomally expressed. 
 
     
 11. A method for the production of a hydrophobic compound comprising:
 (a) providing a recombinant microbial production host comprising:
 i) an intracellular system comprising heterologous genetic construct for the production of a hydrophobic compound; and 
 ii) at least one genetic construct encoding an oleosin polypeptide having an amino acid sequence comprising an oleosin diagnostic motif, said motif having about 70% identity to the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 70; and 
 
 (b) growing the production host of (a) under conditions whereby a hydrophobic compound is produced; wherein the hydrophobic compound is selected from the group consisting of isoprenoids, carotenoids, quinones, dolichols, tocopherols, fatty acids, terpenes, steroids, chlorophylles, polyhydroxyalkanoates, and natural rubber. 
 
 
     
 12. A method according to  claim 11  wherein the hydrophobic compound is optionally recovered from the production host. 
 
     
 13. A method according to  claim 11  wherein the titer of hydrophobic compound produced by said production host is at least about 2 fold greater relative to a production host lacking said oleosin construct when grown under the similar conditions. 
 
     
 14. A method according to  claim 11  wherein the carotenoid is selected from the group consisting of lycopene, β-carotene, zeaxanthin, lutein, canthaxanthin, and astaxanthin. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
