
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A cultivated tomato plant of the species  Lycopersicon esculentum  having a genome comprising an introgression derived from  Lycopersicon pennellii,  said introgression increasing the Brix value of fruits of said cultivated tomato plant by at least 6% as compared to a plant of the same genotype without the introgression, where said introgression consists essentially of the introgression of tomato plant  Lycopersicon pennellii  IL 9-2-6. 
 
     
 2. The cultivated tomato plant of  claim 1 , wherein fruits of the cultivated tomato plant are characterized by an average fruit mass greater than 30 grams. 
 
     
 3. The cultivated tomato plant of  claim 1 , wherein internodes of the cultivated tomato plant are shorter than 15 cm. 
 
     
 4. The cultivated tomato plant of  claim 1 , wherein the cultivated tomato is of a determinate or semideterminate tomato line. 
 
     
 5. The cultivated tomato plant of  claim 1 , wherein said cultivated tomato is of an indeterminate tomato line. 
 
     
 6. A tomato fruit of the tomato plant of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 7. A method of generating a cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato plant having fruits characterized by an increased Brix value, the method comprising the step of introgressing to a genome of said tomato plant an introgression from  Lycopersicon pennellii,  said introgression increasing the Brix value of fruits of said cultivated tomato plant by at least 6% as compared to a plant of the same genotype without the introgression, where said introgression consists essentially of the introgression of tomato plant  Lycopersicon pennellii  IL 9-2-6. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 7 , wherein said fruits of the cultivated tomato plant are characterized by an average fruit mass greater than 30 grams. 
 
     
 9. The method of  claim 7 , wherein internodes of the cultivated tomato plant are shorter than 15 cm. 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 7 , wherein the cultivated tomato is of a determinate or semideterminate tomato line. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 7 , wherein said cultivated tomato is of an indeterminant indeterminate greenhouse tomato line. 
 
     
 12. A tomato fruit derived from the method of  claim 7 . 
 
     
 13. A method of generating a tomato plant having fruits characterized by an increased Brix value, the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) crossing a first cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato with tomato line  Lycopersicon pennellii  IL 9-2-6, so as to generate a first hybrid tomato characterized by a fruit Brix value higher than that of said cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato; 
 (b) crossing said first hybrid tomato or offsprings thereof with a second cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato being characterized by a phenotype different than said first cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato; and 
 (c) isolating offsprings resulting from step (b) characterized by a phenotype of said second cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato yet with fruits having a higher Brix value than that of fruits of said second cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato. 
 
 
     
 14. The method of  claim 13 , further comprising the step of:
 (d) selfing said offsprings resultant from step (c) so as to establish a tomato line characterized by a phenotype of said second cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato yet with fruits having said higher Brix value than that of fruits of said second cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato. 
 
 
     
 15. A seed of the tomato plant of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 16. A method of producing a hybrid, selfed or backcrossed plant, the method comprising the step of crossing the cultivated tomato plant of  claim 1  with a cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato plant. 
 
     
 17. A method of producing a tomato seed of the plant of  claim 16 , comprising the step of crossing the cultivated tomato plant of  claim 1  with a cultivated  Lycopersicon esculentum  tomato plant and deriving a tomato fruit that has produced said tomato seed. 
 
     
 18. A tomato seed designated  L. pennellii  IL 9-2-6, a sample of said seed having been deposited under National Collection of Industrial Bacteria number NCIMB 41379. 
 
     
 19. A tomato seed including a genome comprising an introgression derived from  Lycopersicon pennellii , said introgression increasing the Brix value of fruits from a tomato plant grown from said tomato seed by at least 6% as compared to a plant of the same genotype without the introgression, where said introgression consists essentially of the introgression of tomato plant  Lycopersicon pennellii  IL 9-2-6. 
 
     
 20. A tomato plant, or parts thereof produced by growing the seed of  claim 19 . 
 
     
 21. Pollen of the plant of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 22. A tomato seed produced by growing said tomato plant of  claim 20 , wherein the genome of said tomato seed comprises said introgression. 
 
     
 23. A tomato plant, or parts thereof, produced from seed of  claim 22 . 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
