
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method for the optimization of the production of a genetic end product comprising:
 a) providing a multiplicity of integration cassettes, each cassette comprising: 
 (i) a promoter; 
 (ii) a selectable marker bounded by specific recombinase sites responsive to a recombinase; 
 (iii) regions of homology to different portions of a P1 donor cell chromosome; 
 b) transforming at least one donor cell with at least one of the multiplicity of integration cassettes of (a) for chromosomal integration; 
 c) infecting the at least one transformed donor cell of (b) with a P1 phage wherein the phage replicates and the at least one transformed donor cell is lysed; 
 d) isolating phage released by the lysis of the at least one transformed donor cell of (c); 
 e) mixing equal number of isolated phage released by the lysis of a set of donor cells of (c) carrying different integration cassettes of (a); 
 f) infecting at least one recipient cell with the mixture of the isolated phage of (e) wherein the integration cassettes each integrate into the at least one recipient cell chromosome at the point of homology to the homology arms; 
 g) growing the at least one infected recipient cell of (f) so that a population of transduced recipient cells containing the selectable marker is produced; 
 h) selecting transduced recipient cells of (g) on the basis of the selectable marker; 
 i) screening the transduced recipient cells of (h) for the highest level of the genetic end product to identify a first overproducing strain; 
 j) activating a recombinase in the first overproducing strain of (i) which excises the selectable marker from the chromosomally integrated integration cassette; 
 k) infecting the first overproducing strain of (j) with the mixture of the isolated phage of (e) wherein the integration cassettes each integrate into the first overproducing strain chromosome at the point of homology on the homology arms; 
 l) growing the first overproducing strain of (k) so that a population of first overproducing strain containing the selectable marker is produced; 
 m) selecting first overproducing strain of (l) on the basis of the selectable marker; 
 n) screening the first overproducing strain of (m) for the highest level of the genetic end product to identify a second overproducing strain; and 
 o) comparing the levels of genetic end product produced by the first and second overproducing strains whereby the production of the genetic end product is optimized. 
 
 
     
 2. A method according to  claim 1  wherein each promoter is a native promoter of a cell other than the donor cell or recipient cell. 
 
     
 3. A method according to  claim 1  wherein the promoter is selected from the group consisting of lac, ara, tet, trp, λP L , λP R , T 7 , tac, P T5 , and trc. 
 
     
 4. A method according to  claim 1  wherein the promoter is P T5 . 
 
     
 5. A method according to  claim 1  wherein the donor cell and recipient cell have the genes that comprise the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway. 
 
     
 6. A method according to  claim 5  wherein the integration cassette integrates into the recipient chromosome so as to operably link the promoter and a gene of the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway. 
 
     
 7. A method according to  claim 6  wherein the gene of the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway is selected from the group consisting of dxs, dxr, ygbP, ychB, ygbB, idi, ispA, lytB, gcpE, ispB, crtE, crtY, crtI, crtB, crtX, crtW, crtO, crtR, and crtZ. 
 
     
 8. A method according to  claim 6  wherein the genetic end product is a carotenoid selected from the group consisting of antheraxanthin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, capsorubrin, β-cryptoxanthin, didehydrolycopene, β-carotene, ζ-carotene, δ-carotene, Υ-carotene, keto-Υ-carotene, ψ-carotene, ε-carotene, β,ψ-carotene, torulene, echinenone, alpha-cryptoxanthin, diatoxanthin, 7,8-didehydroastaxanthin, fucoxanthin, fucoxanthinol, isorenieratene, β-isorenieratene, lactucaxanthin, lutein, lycopene, neoxanthin, neurosporene, hydroxyneurosporene, peridinin, phytoene, rhodopin, rhodopin glucoside, siphonaxanthin, spheroidene, spheroidenone, spirilloxanthin, uriolide, uriolide acetate, violaxanthin, zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside, zeaxanthin, and C30-carotenoids. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
