
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of:
 (a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; 
 (b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS; and 
 (c) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that is complementary to the full-length of (a) or( b), 
 
 wherein said isolated nucleic acid molecule of (a) and (b) encodes a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthetase enzyme. 
 
     
 2. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1 , comprising SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
     
 3. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a first nucleotide sequence encoding a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthetase enzyme of at least 302 amino acids that has at least 95% sequence identity, based on the Smith-Waterman method of alignment, when compared to a polypeptide having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2; or a second nucleotide sequence comprising the complement of the full-length of the first nucleotide sequence. 
 
     
 4. A chimeric gene comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1  or  3 , operably linked to suitable regulatory sequences. 
 
     
 5. An isolated nucleic acid molecule having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 20 and encoding all of the following enzymes:
 (a) geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthetase having the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2; 
 (b) zeaxanthin glucosyl transferase having the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 4; 
 (c) lycopene cyclase having the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 6; 
 (d) phytoene desaturase having the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 8; 
 (e) phytoene synthase having the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 10; 
 (f) β-carotene hydroxylase having the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 12; and 
 (g) isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase having the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 14. 
 
 
     
 6. A vector comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 3  or  5 . 
 
     
 7. An isolated transformed host cell comprising the chimeric gene of  claim 4 . 
 
     
 8. An isolated transformed host cell comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 3  or  5 , wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi and algae. 
 
     
 9. The transformed host cell of  claim 8  wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Hansenula, Yarrowia, Rhodosporidium, Lipomyces, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Flavobacterium, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Escherichia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas, Torulopsis, Phaffia , and  Rhodotorula.    
 
     
 10. A method for the production of carotenoid compounds comprising:
 (a) providing a transformed host cell comprising:
 (i) suitable levels of farnesyl pyrophosphate; and 
 (ii) the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 3  or  5  under the control of suitable regulatory sequences; 
 
 (b) contacting the host cell of step (a) under suitable growth conditions with an effective amount of a fermentable carbon substrate whereby carotenoid compounds are produced. 
 
 
     
 11. A method according to  claim 10  wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, and algae. 
 
     
 12. A method according to  claim 10  wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Candida, Hansenula, Yarrowia, Rhodosporidium, Lipomyces, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Flavobacterium, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Escherichia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Synechococcus, Anabaena, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, Xanthobacter, Paracoccus, Nocardia, Arthrobacter, Rhodopseudomonas, Torulopsis, Phaffia , and  Rhodotorula.    
 
     
 13. A method according to  claim 10 , wherein the carotenoid compound produced is selected from the group consisting of antheraxanthin, adonirubin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, capsorubrin, β-cryptoxanthin, α-carotene, β-carotene, epsilon-carotene, echinenone, 3-hydroxyechinenone, 3′-hydroxyechinenone, γ-carotene, 4-keto-γ-carotene, ζ-carotene, α-cryptoxanthin, deoxyflexixanthin, diatoxanthin, 7,8-didehydroastaxanthin, fucoxanthin, fucoxanthinol, isorenieratene, lactucaxanthin, lutein, lycopene, myxobactone, neoxanthin, neurosporene, hydroxyneurosporene, peridinin, phytoene, rhodopin, rhodopin glucoside, 4-keto-rubixanthin, siphonaxanthin, spheroidene, spheroidenone, spirilloxanthin, 4-keto-torulene, 3-hydroxy-4-keto-torulene, uriolide, uriolide acetate, violaxanthin, zeaxanthin-β-diglucoside, and zeaxanthin. 
 
     
 14. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding all of the amino acid sequences as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, 6, 8,10, 12 and 14. 
 
     
 15. An isolated nucleic acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 20. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
