
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A high growth methanotrophic bacterial strain which:
 a) grows on a C1 carbon substrate selected from the group consisting of methanol and methane; 
 b) comprises a functional Embden-Meyerhof carbon pathway, said pathway comprising a gene encoding a pyrophosphate dependent phosphofructokinase enzyme; 
 c) possesses a disruption such that at least one endogenous gene selected from the group consisting of carotenoid gene N1 (crtN1), aldehyde dehydrogenase gene (ald), carotenoid gene N2 (crtN2), and carotenoid gene N3 (crtN3) is down-regulated; and 
 d) comprises a 16s rRNA sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
 
     
 2. The bacterial strain of  claim 1  comprising at least one gene encoding an enzyme of the C 40  carotenoid biosynthesis pathway selected from the group consisting of: carotenoid gene E (crtE), carotenoid gene X (crtX), carotenoid gene Y (crtY), carotenoid gene I (crtI), carotenoid gene B (crtB), carotenoid gene R (crtR), carotenoid gene Z (crtZ), carotenoid gene W (crtW), carotenoid gene O (crtO), carotenoid gene A (crtA), carotenoid gene C (crtC), carotenoid gene D (crtD), carotenoid gene F (crtF), and carotenoid gene U (crtU). 
 
     
 3. The bacterial strain of  claim 1  wherein the strain is a  Methylomonas  sp. 
 
     
 4. The  Methylomonas  sp. strain of  claim 3  further comprising:
 (a) a crtE-idi-crtY-crtI-crtB gene cluster having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:6; and 
 (b) a codon-optimized β-carotene ketolase gene having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:7. 
 
 
     
 5. The  Methylomonas  sp. strain of  claim 3  further comprising:
 (a) a crtE-idi-crtY-crtI-crtB gene cluster having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:6; 
 (b) a codon-optimized β-carotene ketolase gene having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:7; and 
 (c) a codon-optimized β-carotene hydroxylase gene having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:8. 
 
 
     
 6. The  Methylomonas  sp. strain of  claim 3  wherein the down regulated genes have the nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NO:2), (SEQ ID NO:3), (SEQ ID NO:4), (SEQ ID NO:5) corresponding to the genes crtN1, ald, crtN2, and crtN3 respectively. 
 
     
 7. The bacterial strain of  claim 1  which possesses a disruption such that endogenous crtN1 is down-regulated. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
