
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A novel endophytic fungal strain having accession no. MTCC 5124, deposited at International Depository at Institute of Microbial technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh, New Delhi, for production of Camptothecin and Camptothecinioids (CPT), wherein said fungal strain has following characteristics:
 (a) said fungal strain forms white colony mycelia and turns black during sporulation, and 
 (b) said fungal strain forms aerial hyphae, which are round to globose and terminal. 
 
 
     
 2. The fungal strain of  claim 1 , wherein the fungal strain has been isolated from bark of tree  Nothapodytes foetida.    
 
     
 3. The fungal strain of  claim 1 , wherein fungal strain produces about 25 μg/mg of CPT. 
 
     
 4. The fungal strain of  claim 3 , wherein said strain produces about 18 μg/mg of CPT. 
 
     
 5. The fungal strain of  claim 1 , wherein said strain produces CPT within 6-7 days of culturing. 
 
     
 6. A process for isolating Camptothecin and/or Camptothecinioids (CPT) from a novel endophytic fungal strain having accession no. MTCC 5124, said process comprising steps of:
 (a) incubating the fungal strain on a carbohydrate medium for about 6-7 days at temperature of 28±2° C. at 220-220 rpm, 
 (b) filtering the fungal mycelia through whatman paper under vacuum to obtain a fungal pellet, 
 (c) washing the fungal pellet obtained in step (b) with Tris-HCl buffer having a pH of 6 to 7, 
 (d) resuspending the washed fungal pellet in the same buffer in the ratio of 1:4, 
 (e) homogenizing and centrifuging the resuspended pellet at 4° C. at 10,000 to 12,000 rpm for 15-30 minutes, 
 (f) extracting the supernatant using an organic solvent, and 
 (g) isolating Camptothecin and/or CPT from the extract obtained in step (f). 
 
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the carbohydrate medium in step (a) comprises Peptone at about 10 g/litre, Dextrose at 40 g/l, and Agar. 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the organic solvent in step (f) is a mixture of chloroform and methanol in the ratio of 4:1. 
 
     
 9. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the Camptothecin and/or CPT isolated in step (g) is identified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and/or liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS). 
 
     
 10. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the fungal strain is isolated from bark of a  Nathapodytes foetida  tree. 
 
     
 11. The process of  claim 6 , wherein said strain produces about 25 μg/mg of CPT. 
 
     
 12. The process of  claim 11 , wherein said strain produces about 18 μg/mg of CPT.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
