
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method for inhibiting growth or proliferation of a neoplastic cell, comprising contacting a neoplastic cell with a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 thereby inhibiting growth or proliferation of a neoplastic cell, wherein the neoplastic cell is a neoplastic cell of a neoplastic disorder is selected from the group consisting of a solid neoplasm, hematopoietic disorder, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, a neuroblastoma, ovarian cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, renal cancer and liver cancer. 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1  wherein the neoplastic cell is a neoplastic cell of a solid neoplasm. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1  wherein the neoplastic cell is a neoplastic cell of a hematopoietic disorder. 
 
     
 4. A method for treating a neoplastic disorder in a mammal, comprising administering a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of treatment, thereby treating a neoplastic disorder in a mammal, wherein the neoplastic disorder is selected from the group consisting of a hematopoietic disorder, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, a neuroblastoma, ovarian cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, renal cancer and liver cancer. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 4  wherein the hematopoietic disorder is leukemia or lymphoma. 
 
     
 6. A method of treating prostate cancer in a mammal, comprising administering a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of treatment, thereby treating prostate cancer in a mammal. 
 
     
 7. A method of treating breast cancer in a mammal, comprising administering a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of treatment, thereby treating breast cancer in a mammal. 
 
     
 8. A method of treating brain cancer in a mammal, comprising administering a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of treatment, thereby treating brain cancer in a mammal. 
 
     
 9. A method of treating leukemia in a mammal, comprising administering a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of treatment, thereby treating leukemia in a mammal. 
 
     
 10. The method of any one of  claims 4  and  5  to  9 , wherein the mammal is a human. 
 
     
 11. The method of any one of  claims 4 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8  and  9  wherein the compound of formula I is formulated to be administered by intravenous infusion. 
 
     
 12. The method of any one of  claims 4 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8  and  9  wherein the compound of formula I is formulated to be administered by injection. 
 
     
 13. A method for inhibiting the growth or proliferation of a neoplastic cell in a mammal, comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, to a mammal in need of such inhibiting, thereby inhibiting the growth or proliferation of a neoplastic cell in a mammal, wherein the neoplastic cell is a cell of a neoplastic disorder selected from the group consisting of a hematopoietic disorder, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, a neuroblastoma, ovarian cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, renal cancer and liver cancer. 
 
     
 14. A method for treating a neoplasm in a mammal, comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, to a mammal in need of treatment, thereby treating a neoplasm in a mammal, wherein the neoplasm is selected from the group consisting of a hematopoietic neoplasm, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, a neuroblastoma, ovarian cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, renal cancer and liver cancer. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 13  or  14 , wherein the compound of formula I is formulated for administration by a means selected from the group consisting of oral, parenteral, sublingual, intranasal, intraocular, rectal, transdermal, mucosal and topical administration. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 13  or  14 , wherein the compound of formula I is formulated for administration by intravenous infusion. 
 
     
 17. The method of  claim 13  or  14 , wherein the compound of formula I is administered in a dosage unit in the range of 0.01 to 750 milligrams (mg) per kilogram body weight of the mammal. 
 
     
 18. The method of  claim 13  or  14 , wherein the mammal is a human. 
 
     
 19. The method of  claim 13  or  14 , wherein the compound of formula I is administered in a dosage unit in the range of 0.37 to 111 milligrams per square meter (mg/m 2 ). 
 
     
 20. The method of  claim 13  or  14 , wherein the pharmaceutical composition is administered in a single dose. 
 
     
 21. A method of treating pancreatic cancer in a mammal, comprising administering a compound of formula I: 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of treatment, thereby treating pancreatic cancer in a mammal.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
