
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A process for producing a protein of interest, the process comprising:
 providing a cell that expresses adenoviral E1A and E1B proteins, said cell comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest, 
 culturing the cell in a culture medium to produce the protein of interest, and 
 harvesting the protein of interest from said cell, from said culture medium, or from both said cell and said culture medium, 
 wherein the cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins and further does not comprise in its genome a nucleotide sequence encoding a structural adenoviral protein, and wherein the cell is an immortalized human embryonic retina cell. 
 
 
     
 2. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest is integrated into the cell's genome. 
 
     
 3. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest is under control of a heterologous promoter. 
 
     
 4. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the cells are in suspension during said culturing. 
 
     
 5. The process of  claim 1 , wherein said culture medium is free of animal- or human-derived serum and animal- or human-derived serum components. 
 
     
 6. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the cell is a PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC number 96022940, modified by introduction therein of the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest. 
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the protein of interest is harvested from said culture medium. 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the protein of interest is a glycoprotein. 
 
     
 9. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the protein of interest is a human protein. 
 
     
 10. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the protein of interest comprises a variable domain of an immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 11. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the protein of interest is an antibody. 
 
     
 12. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the protein of interest is erythropoietin. 
 
     
 13. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest is under control of a heterologous promoter. 
 
     
 14. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the cells are in suspension during said culturing. 
 
     
 15. The process of  claim 2 , wherein said culture medium is free of animal- or human-derived serum and animal- or human-derived serum components. 
 
     
 16. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the cell is a PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC number 96022940, modified by introduction therein of the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest. 
 
     
 17. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the protein of interest is harvested from said culture medium. 
 
     
 18. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the protein of interest is a glycoprotein. 
 
     
 19. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the protein of interest is a human protein. 
 
     
 20. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the protein of interest comprises a variable domain of an immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 21. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the protein of interest is an antibody. 
 
     
 22. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the protein of interest is erythropoietin. 
 
     
 23. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the cells are in suspension during said culturing. 
 
     
 24. The process of  claim 3 , wherein said culture medium is free of animal- or human-derived serum and animal- or human-derived serum components. 
 
     
 25. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the cell is a PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC number 96022940, modified by introduction therein of the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest. 
 
     
 26. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the protein of interest is harvested from said culture medium. 
 
     
 27. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the protein of interest is a glycoprotein. 
 
     
 28. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the protein of interest is a human protein. 
 
     
 29. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the protein of interest comprises a variable domain of an immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 30. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the protein of interest is an antibody. 
 
     
 31. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the protein of interest is erythropoietin. 
 
     
 32. The process of  claim 4 , wherein said culture medium is free of animal- or human-derived serum and animal- or human-derived serum components. 
 
     
 33. The process of  claim 4 , wherein the cell is a PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC number 96022940, modified by introduction therein of the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest. 
 
     
 34. The process of  claim 4 , wherein the protein of interest is harvested from said culture medium. 
 
     
 35. The process of  claim 4 , wherein the protein of interest is a glycoprotein. 
 
     
 36. The process of  claim 4 , wherein the protein of interest is a human protein. 
 
     
 37. The process of  claim 4 , wherein the protein of interest comprises a variable domain of an immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 38. The process of  claim 4 , wherein the protein of interest is an antibody. 
 
     
 39. The process of  claim 4 , wherein the protein of interest is erythropoietin. 
 
     
 40. The process of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a PER.C6™ cell as deposited under ECACC number 96022940, modified by introduction therein of the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest. 
 
     
 41. The process of  claim 5 , wherein the protein of interest is harvested from said culture medium. 
 
     
 42. The process of  claim 5 , wherein the protein of interest is a glycoprotein. 
 
     
 43. The process of  claim 5 , wherein the protein of interest is a human protein. 
 
     
 44. The process of  claim 5 , wherein the protein of interest comprises a variable domain of an immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 45. The process of  claim 5 , wherein the protein of interest is an antibody. 
 
     
 46. The process of  claim 5 , wherein the protein of interest is erythropoietin. 
 
     
 47. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the protein of interest is harvested from said culture medium. 
 
     
 48. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the protein of interest is a glycoprotein. 
 
     
 49. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the protein of interest is a human protein. 
 
     
 50. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the protein of interest comprises a variable domain of an immunoglobulin. 
 
     
 51. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the protein of interest is an antibody. 
 
     
 52. The process of  claim 6 , wherein the protein of interest is erythropoietin. 
 
     
 53. The process of  claim 3 , wherein the heterologous promoter is a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. 
 
     
 54. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest comprises introns. 
 
     
 55. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the nucleotide sequence encoding the protein of interest comprises cDNA. 
 
     
 56. The process of  claim 1 , wherein a cDNA encoding an enzyme that is involved in post-translational modification of proteins has been integrated into the cell's genome. 
 
     
 57. A process for producing a protein of interest, comprising:
 transfecting PER.C6™ cells as deposited under ECACC number 96022940 with DNA encoding the protein of interest, 
 culturing the transfected cells in culture medium to express the protein of interest, and 
 isolating the protein of interest from the culture medium, 
 
 wherein the transfected cell does not produce structural adenoviral proteins.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
