
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. The isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-05. 
 
     
 2. A humanized form of the isolated monoclonal antibody of  claim 1  which binds to the same antigen or epitope. 
 
     
 3. A chimeric form of the isolated monoclonal antibody of  claim 1  which binds to the same antigen or epitope. 
 
     
 4. The isolated hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-05. 
 
     
 5. A method for initiating antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human colon tumor comprising:
 providing a tissue sample from said human colon tumor; 
 providing an isolated monoclonal antibody which binds to the same epitope as the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-05; and 
 contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody with said tissue sample. 
 
 
     
 6. Antigen binding fragments of the isolated monoclonal antibody of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 7. Antigen binding fragments of the humanized antibody of  claim 2 . 
 
     
 8. Antigen binding fragments of the chimeric antibody of  claim 3 . 
 
     
 9. The isolated monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragments of any one of  claims 1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  6 ,  7  or  8  conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells. 
 
     
 10. A method of treating a human colon tumor susceptible to antibody induced cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human colon tumor expresses an antigen which is bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-05, comprising administering to said mammal said isolated monoclonal antibody in an amount effective to induce cytotoxicity and thereby reduce said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 10  wherein said monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 11  wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 10  wherein said monoclonal antibody activates complement. 
 
     
 14. The method of  claim 10  wherein said monoclonal antibody mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 10  wherein said monoclonal antibody is a humanized form of the isolated monoclonal antibody of  claim 10  which binds to the same antiqen or epitope. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 10  wherein said monoclonal antibody is a chimeric form of the isolated monoclonal antibody of  claim 10  which binds to the same antiqen or epitope.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
