
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated virus suppressing factor (VSF) protein having the following properties:
 (a) it is increasingly produced in an immune cell stimulated by a variant of encephalomyocarditis virus, EMC-DV; 
 (b) it has an antiviral activity which is unchanged by immunoprecipitation and immunoneutralization; 
 (c) it is inactivated by proteinase K; 
 (d) it is not one of the group of antiviral cytokines consisting of IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-13, IL-14, IL-15, IL-16, IL-17, IL-18, G-CSF, GM-CSF, TNF-α, TNF-β, IFN-α, IFN-β, IFN-γ, TGF-β, RANTES, MIP-1α, MIP-1β, MIP-1γ, MCP-1, MCP-3, IP-10 and lymphotactin; 
 (e) it comprises about 55 kDa polypeptide (H) having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, about 30 kDa polypeptides (L1 and L2) and about 25 kDa polypeptide (L3) having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4; 
 (f) it has a molecular weight of over about 100 kDa; and 
 (g) it is stable at 56° C. for about 40 minutes. 
 
 
     
 2. The isolated virus suppressing factor (VSF) protein of  claim 1 , wherein:
 the H polypeptide is encoded by the DNA sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
 
     
 3. The isolated VSF protein as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the antiviral activity is to suppress proliferation or replication of a virus belonging to the family  Orthomyxoviridae, Picornaviridae, Retroviridae or Herpesviridae.    
 
     
 4. A method of producing a hybridoma, comprising fusing an immune cell stimulated by a variant of encephalomyocarditis virus, EMC-DV, with a tumor cell, and producing the hybridoma secreting the isolated virus suppressing factor (VSF) protein of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 5. A method of preparing the isolated virus suppressing factor (VSF) protein of  claim 1 , comprising producing a hybridoma secreting the VSF protein by fusing an immune cell stimulated by a variant of encephalomyocarditis virus, EMC-DV, with a tumor cell, culturing the said hybridoma, and isolating the VSF protein from a culture fluid of the said hybridoma. 
 
     
 6. A method of preparing the isolated virus suppressing factor (VSF) protein of  claim 1 , comprising producing a hybridoma secreting the VSF protein by fusing an immune cell stimulated by a variant of encephalomyocarditis virus, EMC-DV, with a tumor cell, injecting the said hybridoma into an animal, and isolating the VSF protein from an ascitic fluid obtained from the said animal. 
 
     
 7. The method as set forth in  claim 5 , wherein the VSF protein is isolated from the culture fluid or ascitic fluid using a Blue Sepharose column, a Protein A agarose column, a hydroxyapatite resin column, an FPLC column, or sucrose gradient. 
 
     
 8. A hybridoma producing the isolated virus suppressing factor (VSF) protein of  claim 1 , which is prepared by fusing an immune cell stimulated by a variant of encephalomyocarditis virus, EMC-DV, with a tumor cell. 
 
     
 9. The hybridoma as set forth in  claim 8 , wherein the hybridoma is a hybridoma 4D1B (accession number KCLRF-BP-00052). 
 
     
 10. A pharmaceutical composition for treatment of viral infections, comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the VSF protein of  claim 1  and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 
     
 11. A method of treating vial infections, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the VSF protein of  claim 1  to a subject suffering from a viral infection. 
 
     
 12. The method as set forth in  claim 6 , wherein the VSF protein is isolated from the culture fluid or ascitic fluid using a Blue Sepharose column, a Protein A agarose column, a hydroxyapatite resin column, an FPLC column, or sucrose gradient. 
 
     
 13. The isolated VSF protein of  claim 1 , wherein the L3 polypeptide is encoded by the DNA sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 3. 
 
     
 14. The VSF protein of  claim 1 , wherein the protein is produced by hybridoma 4D1B (accession number KCLRF-BP-00052).  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
