
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A transgenic mouse whose genome comprises a homozygous disruption of its α1G gene, wherein the transgenic mouse does not express α1G protein and is resistant to absence seizure. 
 
     
 2. The transgenic mouse as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the mouse is a strain of  Mus musculus.    
 
     
 3. The transgenic mouse as set forth in  claim 1 , wherein the α1G gene of the mouse has a deletion of an exon encoding amino acid residues 82-118 at N-terminal. 
 
     
 4. A method of preparing the transgenic mouse of  claim 1  comprising:
 (1) inserting a targeting vector of an α1G gene into mouse embryonic stem cells; 
 (2) obtaining a chimera mouse by injecting the mouse embryonic stem cells into the blastocoele of a blastula; 
 (3) obtaining a α1G +/− heterozygote mouse by mating the chimera mouse and a wild-type mouse; and 
 (4) obtaining the α1G −/− homozygote by mating a female 1G +/− heterozygote mouse and a male 1G +/− heterozygote mouse. 
 
 
     
 5. The method as set forth in  claim 4 , wherein the targeting vector comprises a PGK-neo cassette. 
 
     
 6. The method as set forth in  claim 4 , wherein the targeting vector further comprises α1G homologous fragments and a thymidine kinase gene cassette located at 3′-end. 
 
     
 7. A method for screening an agent for treating absence seizure using the transgenic mouse of  claim 1  comprising:
 (a) administering an absence seizure-inducing agent to a group of wild type mice and a group of the transgenic mice of  claim 1 ; 
 (b) administering drug candidates to the group of the wild type mice and the group of transgenic mice of step a; 
 (c) comparing electrophysiological or behavioral traits with respect to absence seizure of the group of wild type mice and the group of the transgenic mice of step b; and 
 (d) selecting a drug candidate which alleviates the electrophysiological or behavioral traits of the group of wild type mice on a level with those of the transgenic mice. 
 
 
     
 8. The method as set forth in  claim 7 , wherein the absence seizure-inducing agent is (RS)-baclofen or γ-butyrolactone. 
 
     
 9. The method as set forth in  claim 7 , wherein the electrophysiological trait is a burst-mode firing, spike-and-wave discharges (SWDs), or intra-thalamic SWDs. 
 
     
 10. The method as set forth in  claim 7 , wherein the behavioral trait is selected from the group consisting of:
 i) mild tremors of the head; 
 ii) whole body tremors with loss of postural control; 
 iii) erratic running, erratic jumping, or tonic-clonic movement of the limbs; and 
 iv tonic extension of the whole body or death. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
