
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A process for in vivo labeling and detecting a polypeptide or protein in a prokaryotic cell comprising:
 a) providing an unpermeabilized prokaryotic host cell comprising a chimeric genetic construct encoding a polypeptide or protein comprising at least one tetracysteine tag; 
 b) growing the unpermeabilized prokaryotic host cell of (a) under suitable conditions to express the chimeric genetic construct and to produce the polypeptide or protein comprising said at least one tetracysteine tag; 
 c) contacting in vivo the prokaryotic host cell of (b) with an effective amount of at least one biarsenical labeling reagent that binds to the at least one tetracysteine tag forming at least one fluorescent complex, wherein said contacting is performed in the absence of a reducing agent; and 
 d) detecting the prokaryotic cell comprising the at least one fluorescent complex by utilizing a fluorescence activated cell sorter (FACS) to select a subpopulation of cells which display the highest fluorescence. 
 
 
     
 2. The process of  claim 1 , whereby the chimeric genetic construct encodes a fusion peptide comprising:
 i) at least one first portion comprising an inclusion body tag (IBT); 
 ii) at least one second portion comprising a peptide of interest (POI); and 
 iii) at least one tetracysteine tag (TC). 
 
 
     
 3. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the prokaryotic host cell is an enteric bacteria. 
 
     
 4. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the effective amount of the at least one biarsenical labeling reagent ranges from about 5 μM to less than 150 μM. 
 
     
 5. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the tetracysteine tag comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 
     
 6. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the at least one biarsenical labeling reagent is selected from the group consisting of fluorescein arsenical hairpin binding reagent and resorufin arsenical hairpin binding reagent. 
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the genetic construct further comprises a nucleic acid molecule encoding a cleavable peptide linker located between the tetracysteine tag and the peptide of interest. 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 7 , wherein the at least one first portion comprising the inclusion body tag comprises the at least one tetracysteine tag. 
 
     
 9. The process of  claim 1 , wherein steps (a) through (d) are optionally repeated. 
 
     
 10. The process of  claim 1 , further comprising the step of:
 (e) subjecting the selected subpopulation to at least one mutagenic procedure capable of introducing at least one genetic alteration to the selected cell which increases the production of said tetracysteine tagged polypeptide or protein. 
 
 
     
 11. The process of  claim 10 , wherein steps (a) through (e) are optionally repeated. 
 
     
 12. The process of  claim 2  wherein said fusion peptide comprises the structure:
   IBT-TC-CL-POI or POI-CL-TC-IBT 
 wherein 
 a) CL is a cleavable peptide linker; 
 b) the tetracysteine tag comprises amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO: 2; 
 c) the biarsenical labeling reagent is selected from the group consisting of fluorescein arsenical hairpin binding reagent and resorufin arsenical hairpin binding reagent; and 
 d) the prokaryotic cell is  Escherichia coli.    
 
 
     
 13. A process for making an improved fusion protein comprising:
 a) providing an unpermeabilized prokaryotic host cell comprising a chimeric genetic construct encoding a polypeptide or protein comprising at least one tetracysteine tag; 
 b) subjecting the unpermeabilized prokaryotic cell of (a) to a mutagenic procedure to produce a pool of mutagenized prokaryotic cells which display increased tetracysteine tagged polypeptide or protein production; 
 c) inducing expression of the chimeric genetic construct to produce a fusion peptide comprising the tetracysteine tag; 
 d) labeling the fusion peptide in vivo with a biarsenical labeling reagent in the absence of a reducing agent; 
 e) isolating a subpopulation of the labeled, unpermeabilized prokaryotic cells exhibiting increased fluorescence; and 
 f) amplifying the isolated prokaryotic cells by growing in liquid medium or on plates; and 
 g) optionally repeating steps (b)-(f). 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
