
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
     
 2. An isolated DNA encoding a polypeptide having hydantoin racemase activity,
 said DNA selected from the group consisting of: (1) a DNA that encodes a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1; (2) a DNA consisting of the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; and (3) a DNA consisting of the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 in which 1 to 8 bases are substituted, deleted, inserted and/or added. 
 
 
     
 3. An isolated polypeptide encoded by a DNA selected from the group consisting of: a DNA consisting of the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 and; a DNA consisting of the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 in which 1 to 8 bases are substituted, deleted, inserted and/or added. 
 
     
 4. A recombinant plasmid comprising the DNA of  claim 2 . 
 
     
 5. The recombinant plasmid of  claim 4 , wherein said recombinant plasmid is a plasmid pBHR001 separatable from  Escherichia coli  HB101 (pBHR001) (FERM BP-10476). 
 
     
 6. A transformant obtained by transforming a host microorganism with the recombinant plasmid of  claim 4 . 
 
     
 7. The transformant of  claim 6 , wherein the host microorganism is  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 8. The transformant of  claim 7 , wherein the transformant is  Escherichia coli  HB101 (pBHR001) (FERM BP-10476). 
 
     
 9. An isolated microorganism that produces the polypeptide of  claim 1 , wherein said microorganism belongs to the Genus  Bacillus.    
 
     
 10. The isolated microorganism of  claim 9 , wherein the microorganism is  Bacillus  sp. KNK519HR (FERM BP-10477), or a mutant strain thereof. 
 
     
 11. A process for producing hydantoin racemase, comprising culturing the transformant of  claim 6 , accumulating a polypeptide having hydantoin racemase activity in a culture of the transformant, and collecting the polypeptide. 
 
     
 12. A process for producing hydantoin racemase, comprising culturing the microorganism of  claim 9 , accumulating said polypeptide in a culture of the microorganism, and collecting the polypeptide. 
 
     
 13. A process for racemizing optically active 5-substituted hydantoin, comprising causing an optically active 5-substituted hydantoin compound to be acted upon by a polypeptide of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 14. A process for racemizing optically active 5-substituted hydantoin as set forth in  claim 13 , wherein the optically active 5-substituted hydantoin compound is optically active 5-substituted hydantoin represented by General Formula (1) 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 where R represents an alkyl group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, an aralkyl group having 7 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, or an aryl group having 6 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent. 
 
 
     
 15. A process for producing optically active N-carbamylamino acid, comprising causing a 5-substituted hydantoin compound to be acted upon by a polypeptide of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 16. A process for producing optically active N-carbamylamino acid as set forth in  claim 15 ,
 wherein the optically active 5-substituted hydantoin compound is 5-substituted hydantoin represented by General Formula (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 where R represents an alkyl group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, an aralkyl group having 7 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, or an aryl group having 6 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, and 
 wherein the optically active N-carbamylamino acid is optically active N-carbamylamino acid represented by General Formula (2) 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 where R represents an alkyl group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, an aralkyl group having 7 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, or an aryl group having 6 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent. 
 
 
     
 17. A process as set forth in  claim 16 , wherein the optically active N-carbamylamino acid is one of N-carbamyl-D-leucine, N-carbamyl-D-isoleucine, N-carbamyl-D-valine, N-carbamyl-D-norleucine, N-carbamyl-D-norvaline, N-carbamyl-D-methionine, N-carbamyl-D-cysteine, N-carbamyl-D-penicillamine, N-carbamyl-D-phenylalanine, N-carbamyl-D-phenylglycine, and N-carbamyl-D-4-hydroxyphenylglycine. 
 
     
 18. A process for producing an optically active amino acid, comprising causing a 5-substituted hydantoin compound to be acted upon by hydantoinase and N-carbamylamino acid amidohydrolase, together with the polypeptide of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 19. A process for producing an optically active amino acid as set forth in  claim 18 ,
 wherein the 5-substituted hydantoin compound is 5-substituted hydantoin represented by General Formula (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 where R represents an alkyl group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, an aralkyl group having 7 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, or an aryl group having 6 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, and 
 wherein the optically active amino acid is represented by General Formula (3) 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 where R represents an alkyl group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, an aralkyl group having 7 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent, or an aryl group having 6 to 20 carbon atoms with or without a substituent. 
 
 
     
 20. A process as set forth in  claim 19 , wherein the optically active amino acid is one of D-leucine, D-isoleucine, D-valine, D-norleucine, D-norvaline, D-methionine, D-cysteine, D-penicillamine, D-phenylalanine, D-phenylglycine, and D-4-hydroxyphenylglycine. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
