
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide having lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase activity, selected from the group consisting of:
 (a) an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:2; 
 (b) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes with (a) under the following hybridization conditions: 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, 65° C. and washed with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS followed by 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS; or, 
 (c) an isolated nucleic acid molecule that is completely complementary to (a) or (b). 
 
 
     
 2. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1  selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1 and SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
     
 3. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising at least one nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of:
 (a) a nucleotide sequence encoding a lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase enzyme of at least 314 amino acids that has at least 90% identity based on the BLAST method of alignment when compared to a polypeptide having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:2; and, 
 (b) a nucleotide sequence comprising the complement of (a). 
 
 
     
 4. A recombinant DNA construct comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of  claim 1  operably linked to at least one regulatory sequence. 
 
     
 5. A transformed host cell comprising the recombinant DNA construct of  claim 4 . 
 
     
 6. The transformed host cell of  claim 5 , selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, algae, stramenopiles, oomycetes, euglenoids, fungi and plants. 
 
     
 7. The transformed host cell of  claim 6 , wherein the yeast is an oleaginous yeast. 
 
     
 8. The transformed host cell of  claim 7 , wherein the oleaginous yeast is selected from the group consisting of:  Yarrowia, Candida, Rhodotorula, Rhodosporidium, Cryptococcus, Trichosporon  and  Lipomyces.    
 
     
 9. The transformed host cell of  claim 8 , wherein the host cell is  Yarrowia lipolytica.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
