
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A diagnostic/prognostic method for a preneoplastic/neoplastic disease associated with abnormal MN/CA IX expression, comprising determining whether MN/CA IX is activated in a vertebrate sample, comprising:
 (a) determining whether MN/CA IX is overexpressed in said vertebrate sample, at a level above that for a control sample; and if so, 
 (b) contacting said vertebrate sample with a membrane-impermeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX, wherein said membrane-impermeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is selected from the group consisting of organic heterocyclic sulfonamides and aromatic sulfonamides, and 
 (c) detecting or detecting and quantifying binding of said specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX in said vertebrate sample; 
 wherein binding of said inhibitor to MN/CA IX indicates that MN/CA IX is activated; 
 wherein said inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be a potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity in a screening assay comprising determining the inhibition constant K I , of said inhibitor, wherein if said inhibition constant K I , is determined to be less than about 50 nanomolar, said inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be a potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity; 
 wherein said inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be an MN/CA IX-specific inhibitor if said inhibitor is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of at least one of the carbonic anhydrases selected from the group consisting of CA I, CA II and CA IV; and 
 wherein said potent inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is considered to be membrane-impermeant if it is tested in a membrane permeance assay comprising: 
 (1) incubating a millimolar solution of said potent inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX with human erythrocytes at 37° C. for at least 30 minutes; 
 (2) washing said human erythrocytes; 
 (3) quantitating the levels of said potent inhibitor present in said human erythrocytes; and 
 (4) if said potent inhibitor is present in said human erythrocytes at 1 micromolar or less, then said potent inhibitor is considered to be membrane-impermeant. 
 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1  wherein said activated MN/CA IX is hypoxia-activated. 
 
     
 3. The method of clam  1  wherein said membrane-impermeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of CA IV. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 1  wherein said membrane-impermeant, potent specific sulfonamide inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is a membrane-impermeant pyridinium derivative of an aromatic sulfonamide or a membrane-impermeant pyridinium derivative of a heterocyclic sulfonamide. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 1  wherein said MN/CA IX-specific sulfonamide is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of at least two of the carbonic anhydrases in the group consisting of CA I, CA II and CA IV. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 1  wherein said MN/CA IX-specific sulfonamide is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of each of the carbonic anhydrases in the group consisting of CA I, CA II and CA IV. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 4  wherein said MN/CA IX-specific sulfonamide is positively-charged. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 1  wherein said inhibitor is labeled. 
 
     
 9. A method for imaging tumors and/or metastases that express activated MN/CA IX in a patient comprising:
 (a) determining whether MN/CA IX is overexpressed in a sample taken from said tumor or from one of said metastases, at a level above that for a control sample; and if so, 
 (b) administering a membrane-impermeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX conjugated to a label or imaging agent to said patient, wherein said specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is an organic heterocyclic sulfonamide or aromatic sulfonamide; 
 wherein said specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be a potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity in a screening assay comprising determining the inhibition constant K I , of said inhibitor, wherein if said inhibition constant K I  is determined to be less than about 50 nanomolar, said labeled specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be a potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity; 
 wherein said inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be an MN/CA IX-specific inhibitor if said inhibitor is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of at least one of the carbonic anhydrases selected from the group consisting of CA I, CA II and CA IV; 
 and wherein said potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is considered to be membrane-impermeant if it is tested in a membrane permeance assay comprising: 
 (1) incubating a millimolar solution of said potent MN/CA IX-specific inhibitor with human erythrocytes at 37° C. for at least 30 minutes; 
 (2) washing said human erythrocytes; 
 (3) quantitating the levels of said potent MN/CA IX-specific inhibitor present in said human erythrocytes; and 
 (4) if said potent MN/CA IX-specific inhibitor is present in said human erythrocytes at 1 micromolar or less, then said potent inhibitor is considered to be membrane-impermeant. 
 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 9 , wherein said imaging agent comprises a radioactive isotope. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 10 , wherein said inhibitor conjugated to said radioactive imaging agent is used in vivo to locate metastases by scintigraphy. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 9  wherein said membrane-impermeant, potent specific sulfonamide inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is a membrane-impermeant pyridinium derivative of an aromatic sulfonamide or a membrane-impermeant pyridinium derivative of a heterocyclic sulfonamide. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 12 , wherein said membrane-impermeant pyridinium derivative of an aromatic sulfonamide is Compound 39. 
 
     
 14. A diagnostic/prognostic method for a preneoplastic/neoplastic disease associated with abnormal MN/CA IX expression, comprising determining whether MN/CA IX is activated in a vertebrate sample, comprising:
 (a) determining whether MN/CA IX is overexpressed in said vertebrate sample, at a level above that for a control sample; and if so, 
 (b) contacting said vertebrate sample with a membrane-permeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX, wherein said membrane-permeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is selected from the group consisting of organic heterocyclic sulfonamides and aromatic sulfonamides, and 
 (c) detecting or detecting and quantifying binding of said specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX in said vertebrate sample; 
 wherein binding of said inhibitor to MN/CA IX indicates that MN/CA IX is activated; 
 wherein said inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be a potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity in a screening assay comprising determining the inhibition constant K I , of said inhibitor, wherein if said inhibition constant K I  is determined to be less than about 50 nanomolar, said inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be a potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity; 
 wherein said membrane-permeant, potent specific sulfonamide inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is determined to be an MN/CA IX-specific inhibitor if said inhibitor is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of CA II; 
 and wherein said potent inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX is considered to be membrane-permeant if it is tested in a membrane permeance assay comprising: 
 (1) incubating a millimolar solution of said potent inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX with human erythrocytes at 37° C. for at least 30 minutes; 
 (2) washing said human erythrocytes; 
 (3) quantitating the levels of said potent inhibitor present in said human erythrocytes; and 
 (4) if said potent inhibitor is present in said human erythrocytes at more than 1 micromolar, then said potent inhibitor is considered to be membrane-permeant. 
 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 14  wherein said activated MN/CA IX is hypoxia-activated. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 14  further wherein said MN/CA IX-specific sulfonamide is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of at least one of the carbonic anhydrases in the group consisting of CA I and CA IV. 
 
     
 17. The method of  claim 14  wherein said MN/CA IX-specific sulfonamide is a more potent inhibitor of MN/CA IX enzymatic activity than of the enzymatic activity of each of the carbonic anhydrases in the group consisting of CA I, CA II and CA IV. 
 
     
 18. The method of  claim 14  wherein said inhibitor is labeled. 
 
     
 19. The method of  claim 18  wherein said inhibitor is labeled with fluorescein isothiocyanate. 
 
     
 20. The method of  claim 8  wherein said inhibitor is labeled with fluorescein isothiocyanate. 
 
     
 21. The method of  claim 9  wherein said membrane-impermeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX conjugated to a label or imaging agent is a more potent inhibitor of the enzymatic activity of MN/CA IX than of CA IV. 
 
     
 22. The method of  claim 9  wherein said membrane-impermeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX conjugated to a label or imaging agent is a more potent inhibitor of the enzymatic activity of MN/CA IX than of the enzymatic activity of at least two of the carbonic anhydrases in the group consisting of CA I, CA II and CA IV. 
 
     
 23. The method of  claim 9  wherein said membrane-impermeant, potent specific inhibitor of activated MN/CA IX conjugated to a label or imaging agent is a more potent inhibitor of the enzymatic activity of MN/CA IX than of the enzymatic activity of each of the carbonic anhydrases in the group consisting of CA I, CA II and CA IV. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
