
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method of delivering a non-adenoviral nucleic acid to a smooth muscle cell, the method comprising:
 delivering the non-adenoviral nucleic acid to said smooth muscle cell by infecting said smooth muscle cell with a recombinant adenovirus comprising:
 a fiber of adenovirus 11, 16, 35, or 51; and 
 a non-adenoviral nucleic acid encoding a non-adenoviral polypeptide. 
 
 
 
     
 2. The method according to  claim 1 , wherein said recombinant adenovirus comprises an adenoviral genome of an adenovirus of serotype 5 and wherein said adenoviral genome is modified by a deletion of at least an E1 gene. 
 
     
 3. The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the non-adenoviral nucleic acid is a gene selected from the group of genes encoding an apolipoprotein, a nitric oxide synthase, a herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase, an interleukin-3, an interleukin-1α, an anti-angiogenesis protein, angiostatin, an anti-proliferation protein, a smooth muscle cell anti-migration protein, a vascular endothelial growth factor, a basic fibroblast growth factor, a hypoxia inducible factor 1α, and a Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor. 
 
     
 4. The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the fiber is of adenovirus 16. 
 
     
 5. A method of delivering a non-adenoviral nucleic acid to a smooth muscle cell, the method comprising:
 infecting the smooth muscle cell with an adenovirus comprising:
 a fiber of adenovirus 16; and 
 a non-adenoviral nucleic acid encoding a non-adenoviral polypeptide, wherein the non-adenoviral polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of an apolipoprotein, a nitric oxide synthase, a herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase, an interleukin-3, an interleukin-1α, an anti-angiogenesis protein, angiostatin, an anti-proliferation protein, a smooth muscle cell anti-migration protein, a vascular endothelial growth factor, a basic fibroblast growth factor, a hypoxia inducible factor 1α, and a Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor, 
 
 wherein the adenovirus further has an adenoviral genome of an adenovirus of serotype 5, wherein the adenoviral genome is modified by a deletion of at least an E1 gene, 
 so as to deliver said non-adenoviral nucleic acid to the smooth muscle cell.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
