
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A process for enzymatically converting glycolonitrile to glycolic acid, said process comprising:
 (a) providing a set of reaction components comprising:
 (i) an aqueous solution of glycolonitrile comprising at least 0.01 ppm formaldehyde; 
 (ii) an enzyme catalyst comprising a polypeptide having nitrilase activity wherein said polypeptide has the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:55; wherein said enzyme catalyst comprises a specific activity for hydrolyzing glycolonitrile to glycolic acid; and 
 (iii) an effective amount of at least one amine protectant selected from the group consisting of:
 a) a compound of the formula
    [R 3 ] (1+X) —NH (2−X)  
 
 wherein X is 0 or 1 and R 3  is independently C1 to C20 hydrocarbyl group or substituted hydrocarbyl group, wherein R 3  optionally comprises one or more ether linkages; with the proviso that (i) the substituted group is not a cyano group capable of reacting with the enzyme catalyst and (ii) R 3  is not a carbonyl group, 
 
 b) a polyamine polymer comprising an effective number of free amine groups; and 
 c) an amine-functionalized material comprising an effective number of free amine groups; wherein the amine protectant is not naturally-produced by said enzyme catalyst; 
 
 
 (b) combining the set of reaction components under suitable aqueous reaction conditions whereby glycolic acid is produced; wherein said specific activity is increased by the addition of said at least one amine protectant; and 
 (c) recovering the glycolic acid or salt thereof produced in (b). 
 
 
     
 2. The process of  claim 1  wherein the amine protectant is soluble under said suitable aqueous reaction conditions. 
 
     
 3. The process of  claim 1  wherein the amine protectant is insoluble under said suitable aqueous reaction conditions. 
 
     
 4. The process of  claim 3  wherein the enzyme catalyst is not immobilized in a matrix comprising said amine protectant. 
 
     
 5. The process of  claim 3  wherein the enzyme catalyst is immobilized in an insoluble matrix comprising said amine protectant. 
 
     
 6. The process of  claim 5  wherein the enzyme catalyst is immobilized in or on an insoluble matrix comprising polyethylenimine. 
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 6  wherein the enzyme catalyst is immobilized in or on a glutaraldehyde-polyehtyleneimine crosslinked carrageenan particle or bead. 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 1  wherein the polyamine polymer is selected from the group consisting of 2-amino-2-deoxy-(1→4)-β-D-glucopyranan, polyalkyleneamine polymers having alkylene moieties of 2 to 12 carbon atoms, polyethylenimine, polyallylamine, polyvinyl alcohol/polyvinylamine copolymers, D-polylysine, L-polylysine, mixtures of D/L polylysine, polyethylenimine cross-linked with glutaraldehyde, and mixtures thereof. 
 
     
 9. The process of  claim 8  wherein the polyamine polymer has an average molecule weight ranging from 1,000 Daltons to 2,000,000 Daltons. 
 
     
 10. The process of  claim 1  wherein the amine-functionalized material is selected from the group consisting of an amine-functionalized polymer and an amine-functionalized support material. 
 
     
 11. The process of  claim 10  wherein the amine-functionalized polymer is selected from the group consisting of amine-functionalized polysaccharides, amine-functionalized glycans, amine-functionalized agarose, amine-functionalized carrageenan, amine-functionalized alginate, amine-functionalized dextran, amine-functionalized cellulose, amine-functionalized methacrylates, amine-functionalized polyurethanes, amine-functionalized polyesters, amine-functionalized nylons, amine-functionalized polystyrene, and amine-functionalized polyvinyl alcohols. 
 
     
 12. The process of  claim 10  wherein the amine-functionalized support material is selected from the group consisting of amine-functionalized alumina, amine-functionalized silica, amine-functionalized magnetite, amine-functionalized controlled pore glass, weakly basic anion exchange resins comprising one or more primary or secondary amine groups, aminopropylsilated glass beads, ω-aminohexylagarose, ω-aminododecylagarose, and ω-aminoethylagarose. 
 
     
 13. The process of  claim 12  wherein the amine-functionalized support material is functionalized with polyethylenimine. 
 
     
 14. The process of  claim 13  wherein the amine-functionalized support material is selected from the group consisting of polyethyleneimine-functionalized silica and polyethyleneimine-functionalized polystyrene. 
 
     
 15. The process of  claim 1  wherein the polypeptide having nitrilase activity is derived from a host cell from a genus selected from the group consisting of  Acidovorax, Rhodococcus, Nocardia, Bacillus , and  Alcaligenes.    
 
     
 16. The process of  claim 1  wherein the enzyme catalyst is in the form of whole microbial cells, permeabilized microbial cells, one or more cell components of a microbial cell extract, partially purified enzyme, or purified enzyme. 
 
     
 17. The process of  claim 16  wherein the enzyme catalyst is a transformed microbial host cell selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas  sp.,  Corynebacterium  sp.,  Brevibacterium  sp.,  Rhodococcus  sp.,  Azotobacter  sp.,  Citrobacter  sp.,  Enterobacter  sp.,  Clostridium  sp.,  Klebsiella  sp.,  Salmonella  sp.,  Lactobacillus  sp.,  Aspergillus  sp.,  Saccharomyces  sp.,  Yarrowia  sp.,  Zygosaccharomyces  sp.,  Pichia  sp.,  Kluyveromyces  sp.,  Candida  sp.,  Hansenula  sp.,  Dunaliella Debaryomyces  sp.,  Mucor  sp.,  Torulopsis  sp.,  Methylobacteria  sp.,  Bacillus  sp.,  Escherichia  sp.,  Pseudomonas  sp.,  Rhizobium  sp., and  Streptomyces  sp. 
 
     
 18. The process of  claim 17  wherein the transformed microbial host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Bacillus  sp.,  Pseudomonas  sp., and  Escherichia  sp. 
 
     
 19. The process of  claim 18  wherein the transformed microbial host cell is  Escherichia coli . 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
