
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A liquid enzyme preparation prepared by a process comprising filtering a fermentation broth of a culture of an isolated  Penicillium funiculosum  strain deposited under accession number IMI 378536 at the International Mycological Institute, to obtain a concentrated filtered fermentation broth of said culture containing a mixture of enzymes produced by said strain, wherein the composition comprises between 0.3 and 76 percent by weight of the concentrated filtered fermentation broth, an antimicrobial agent, and sorbitol. 
 
     
 2. The liquid enzyme preparation of  claim 1 , further comprising an antifreezing agent. 
 
     
 3. The liquid enzyme preparation of  claim 1 , wherein the antimicrobial agent is selected from the group consisting of sorbic acid and salts thereof, benzoic acid and salts thereof, methyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, n-propyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, furamic acid and salts, and esters thereof, sodium chloride and potassium chloride. 
 
     
 4. The liquid enzyme preparation of  claim 2 , wherein the antifreezing agent is selected from the group consisting of 1,2-propandiol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol. 
 
     
 5. The liquid enzyme preparation of  claim 1 , further comprising an amount of total organic solids, said total organic solids including the microbial products. 
 
     
 6. A powder enzyme preparation prepared by a process comprising filtering a fermentation broth of a culture of an isolated  Penicillium funiculosum  strain deposited under accession number IMI 378536 at the International Mycological Institute to obtain a concentrated filtered fermentation broth of said culture which contains a mixture of enzymes produced by said strain and then drying the obtained filtered concentrated fermentation broth, wherein the amount of the dried filtered concentrated fermentation broth is between 16 and 40 percent by weight of the powder composition. 
 
     
 7. The powder enzyme preparation of  claim 6 , further comprising a carrier. 
 
     
 8. The powder enzyme preparation of  claim 7 , wherein the carrier is selected from the group consisting of wheat flow, starch, gypsum, maltodextrin, corn solid, by-product from cereal processing such as maize grits, wheat middlings, wheat bran, and rye tailings. 
 
     
 9. The liquid enzyme preparation of  claim 5 , wherein the amount of total organic solids, which are microbial products, is between 4 and 10 percent by weight. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
