
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A method of predicting resistance to endocrine therapy in a breast cancer patient with an ER-positive breast tumor, comprising:
 (a) obtaining a breast tumor tissue sample from said ER-positive breast cancer patient; 
 (b) determining immunologically whether said sample is MN/CA IX-positive, wherein MN/CA IX positivity is indicated by any conventionally detectable MN/CA IX-specific immunohistochemical staining of cells in said sample; and 
 (c) correlating a finding of combined ER-positivity in said tumor and MN/CA IX-positivity in said sample with a greater probability of resistance to said endocrine therapy for said ER-positive breast cancer patient than if said tumor were ER-positive and said sample were MN/CA IX-negative. 
 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein said endocrine therapy comprises or consists of the use of an antiestrogen or estrogen lowering drug, or drug that modifies endocrine environment. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1 , wherein said endocrine therapy is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM), a pure antiestrogen, a steroidal aromatase inhibitor, a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor, or estrogen. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 1 , wherein said endocrine therapy is selected from the group consisting of tamoxifen, raloxifene, toremifene, fulvestrant, exemestane, letrozole or anastrozole. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 2 , wherein said antiestrogen is tamoxifen. 
 
     
 6. A method of predicting resistance to endocrine therapy in a breast cancer patient with an ER-positive breast tumor, comprising:
 (a) obtaining a body fluid sample from said ER-positive breast cancer patient; 
 (b) immunologically detecting the presence or absence of soluble MN/CA IX in said body fluid sample; and 
 (c) correlating a finding of combined ER-positivity in said tumor and detectable soluble MN/CA IX in said body fluid sample with a greater probability of resistance to said endocrine therapy for said ER-positive breast cancer patient than if said tumor were ER-positive and said body fluid sample were MN/CA IX-negative. 
 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 6 , wherein said endocrine therapy comprises or consists of the use of an antiestrogen. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 7 , wherein said antiestrogen is tamoxifen. 
 
     
 9. A method of predicting resistance to an antiestrogen therapy in a breast cancer patient with an ER-positive breast tumor, comprising:
 (a) employing diagnostic/prognostic imaging to detect the presence or absence of MN/CA IX in one or more tumors in said ER-positive breast cancer patient, wherein said imaging comprises the use of labeled MN/CA IX-specific antibodies; and 
 (b) correlating a finding of combined ER-positivity in said breast tumor and the presence of MN/CA IX in said one or more tumors with a greater probability of resistance to said antiestrogen therapy for said ER-positive breast cancer patient than if said breast tumor were ER-positive and said one or more tumors were MN/CA IX-negative. 
 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 9 , wherein said one or more tumors is or are metastatic tumor(s). 
 
     
 11. A method for selecting an appropriate therapy for a breast cancer patient with an ER-positive breast tumor, comprising:
 (a) immunologically detecting the presence or absence of MN/CA IX in said ER-positive tumor or in a metastasis of said tumor; 
 (b) correlating a finding of combined ER-positivity in said breast tumor and the presence of MN/CA IX in said tumor or said metastasis with a greater probability of resistance to antiestrogen therapy for said ER-positive breast cancer patient, than if said breast tumor were ER-positive and said tumor or said metastasis were MN/CA IX-negative; and 
 (c) selecting an additional or alternative therapy to antiestrogen therapy for said ER-positive, MN/CA IX-positive breast cancer patient identified in step (b) as having a greater probability of resistance to antiestrogen therapy. 
 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 11 , wherein said antiestrogen therapy is tamoxifen. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 11 , wherein said MN/CA IX comprises soluble MN/CA IX antigen (s-CA IX), a MN protein or a MN polypeptide. 
 
     
 14. The method of  claim 11 , wherein said additional or alternative therapy is an anthracycline. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 14 , wherein said anthracycline is epirubicin or doxorubicin. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 11 , wherein said additional or alternative therapy is not substantially inhibited by acidic pH. 
 
     
 17. The method of  claim 11 , wherein said additional or alternative therapy is selected from adjuvant chemotherapy, alternative endocrine therapy, or MN-targeted therapy. 
 
     
 18. The method of  claim 17 , wherein said adjuvant chemotherapy is a taxane. 
 
     
 19. The method of  claim 18 , wherein said taxane is paclitaxel or docetaxel. 
 
     
 20. The method of  claim 12 , wherein if MN/CA IX is present in said tumor or said metastasis, said method further comprises deciding not to use chemotherapy or alternative endocrine therapy substantially inhibited by acidic pH. 
 
     
 21. A method of predicting resistance to tamoxifen in a breast cancer patient with an ER-positive breast tumor, comprising:
 (a) obtaining a breast tumor tissue sample from said ER-positive breast cancer patient; 
 (b) immunologically detecting MN/CA IX overexpression in said sample, wherein any conventionally detectable MN/CA IX-specific immunohistochemical staining of cells in said sample indicates MN/CA IX overexpression; and 
 (c) correlating a finding of combined ER-positivity in said tumor and MN/CA IX overexpression in said sample with a greater probability of resistance to tamoxifen for said ER-positive breast cancer patient than if said sample were MN/CA IX-negative, and identifying said ER-positive, MN/CA IX-positive breast cancer patient as a candidate for an additional or alternative therapy to tamoxifen. 
 
 
     
 22. The method of  claim 9 , wherein said imaging is positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. 
 
     
 23. The method of  claim 22 , wherein the MN/CA IX-specific antibodies are labeled using the fluorine isotope  18 F. 
 
     
 24. A method of predicting resistance to endocrine therapy in a breast cancer patient with an ER-positive breast tumor, comprising:
 (a) obtaining a breast tumor tissue sample from said ER-positive breast cancer patient; 
 (b) determining by MN/CA IX-specific immunohistochemical staining of cells in said sample an MN/CA IX immunoreactivity score of said sample, wherein said sample is assigned an immunoreactivity score with 
 a value of 0 (zero) if no staining, 
 a value of 1 if weak staining, or 
 a value of 2 if strong staining; 
 and 
 (c) correlating a finding of combined ER-positivity in said tumor and an MN/CA IX immunoreactivity score of the sample greater than 0 (zero), with a greater probability of resistance to said endocrine therapy for said ER-positive breast cancer patient, than if said tumor were ER-positive and said sample had an MN/CA IX immunoreactivity score of 0 (zero). 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
