
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A process for producing glycolic acid from formaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide comprising:
 (a) providing an aqueous formaldehyde feed stream that is heated to a temperature of about 90° C. to about 150° C. for a determinable period of time; 
 (b) contacting the heated aqueous feed stream of (a) with hydrogen cyanide at a temperature suitable for glycolonitrile synthesis, whereby glycolonitrile is produced; 
 (c) contacting the glycolonitrile of step (b) in a suitable aqueous reaction mixture with an enzyme catalyst comprising a polypeptide having nitrilase activity, said polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22, whereby glycolic acid is produced; and 
 (d) recovering the glycolic acid produced in (c) in the form of a salt or acid. 
 
 
     
 2. The process of  claim 1  wherein the glycolic acid is recovered using a recovery method selected from the group consisting of reactive solvent extraction, ion exchange, electrodialysis, polymerization, thermal decomposition, alcoholysis, and combinations thereof. 
 
     
 3. The process of  claim 2  wherein the recovery method is selected from the group consisting of ion exchange and reactive solvent extraction. 
 
     
 4. The process of  claim 1  wherein an amount of sodium hydroxide is added to the aqueous formaldehyde feed stream prior to heating the aqueous formaldehyde feed stream wherein the molar ratio of sodium hydroxide to formaldehyde is about 1:50 to about 1:2000. 
 
     
 5. The process of  claim 1  wherein the molar ratio of hydrogen cyanide to formaldehyde is at least 1.01:1 to about 1.15:1. 
 
     
 6. The process of  claim 1  wherein the heated aqueous formaldehyde feed stream is reacted with hydrogen cyanide at a reaction temperature of about 0° C. to about 70° C. 
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 6  wherein the heated aqueous formaldehyde feed stream is reacted with hydrogen cyanide at a reaction temperature of about 10° C. to about 30° C. 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 1  wherein the aqueous formaldehyde feed stream comprises about 0.1 wt to about 15 wt methanol. 
 
     
 9. The process of  claim 1  wherein the enzyme catalyst is in the form of a whole microbial cell, a permeabilized microbial cell, a microbial cell extract, partially purified enzyme, or purified enzyme. 
 
     
 10. The process of  claim 9  wherein said whole microbial cell is a transformed microbial host cell recombinantly expressing said polypeptide. 
 
     
 11. The process of  claim 10  wherein the transformed microbial host cell is selected from the group consisting of  Comamonas  sp.,  Corynebacterium  sp.,  Brevibacterium  sp.,  Rhodococcus  sp.,  Azotobacter  sp.,  Citrobacter  sp.,  Enterobacter  sp.,  Clostridium  sp.,  Klebsiella  sp.,  Salmonella  sp.,  Lactobacillus  sp.,  Aspergillus  sp.,  Saccharomyces  sp.,  Zygosaccharomyces  sp.,  Pichia  sp.,  Kluyveromyces  sp.,  Candida  sp.,  Hansenula  sp.,  Dunaliella  sp.,  Debaryomyces  sp.,  Mucor  sp.,  Torulopsis  sp.,  Methylobacteria  sp.,  Bacillus  sp.,  Escherichia  sp.,  Pseudomonas  sp.,  Rhizobium  sp., and  Streptomyces  sp. 
 
     
 12. The process of  claim 11  wherein the transformed microbial host is  Escherichia coli.    
 
     
 13. The process of  claim 12  wherein the transformed microbial host cell is an  Escherichia coli  strain selected from the group consisting of  E. coli  MG1655 having international depository number ATCC 47076 and  E. coli  FM5 having international depository number ATCC 53911. 
 
     
 14. The process of any one of  claims 9 - 13  wherein the enzyme catalyst is immobilized in or on a soluble or insoluble support. 
 
     
 15. The process of  claim 1  wherein the concentration of ammonium glycolate produced in the aqueous reaction mixture is about 0.02 wt % to about 90 wt %. 
 
     
 16. The process of  claim 15  wherein the concentration of ammonium glycolate produced in the aqueous reaction mixture is about 0.02 wt % to about 40 wt %. 
 
     
 17. The process of  claim 1  wherein the glycolonitrile concentration in the aqueous reaction mixture is in the range of about 5 mM to about 1 M. 
 
     
 18. The process of  claim 17  wherein the glycolonitrile concentration in the aqueous reaction mixture is maintained by continuous or aliquot addition. 
 
     
 19. The process of  claim 1  wherein the pH in the aqueous reaction mixture is maintained between about 5.5 and about 7.7. 
 
     
 20. The process of  claim 1  wherein the enzymatic conversion of glycolonitrile to glycolic acid occurs under substantially oxygen free conditions. 
 
     
 21. The process of  claim 1  wherein the aqueous reaction mixture further comprises a stabilizer selected from the group consisting of potassium thiosulfate and sodium dithionite at a concentration of less than 5 wt %. 
 
     
 22. The process of  claim 1 , wherein said enzyme catalyst provides a catalyst productivity of at least 300 grams of glycolic acid per gram dry cell weight of enzyme catalyst. 
 
     
 23. The process of  claim 22 , wherein said enzyme catalyst provides a catalyst productivity of at least 450 grams of glycolic acid per gram dry cell weight of enzyme catalyst. 
 
     
 24. The process of  claim 23 , wherein said enzyme catalyst provides a catalyst productivity of at least 1000 grams of glycolic acid per gram dry cell weight of enzyme catalyst. 
 
     
 25. A process for producing glycolic acid from formaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide comprising:
 (a) providing an aqueous formaldehyde feed stream that is heated to a temperature of about 90° C. to about 150° C. for a determinable period of time; 
 (b) contacting the heated aqueous feed stream of (a) with hydrogen cyanide at a temperature suitable for glycolonitrile synthesis, whereby glycolonitrile is produced; 
 (c) contacting the glycolonitrile of step (b) in a suitable aqueous reaction mixture with an enzyme catalyst comprising a polypeptide having nitrilase activity, said polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22, whereby glycolic acid is produced; and 
 (d) recovering the glycolic acid produced in (c) by ion exchange; wherein said glycolic acid has a purity of at least 99.9%. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
