
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for removing adenovirus proteins that are not incorporated into subgroup B recombinant human adenovirus particles from a preparation of subgroup B recombinant human adenovirus particles, the method comprising the steps of:
 subjecting a preparation of the recombinant adenovirus particles comprising adenovirus proteins that are not incorporated into adenovirus particles to a charged filter that contains anion exchange groups, wherein the preparation of the recombinant adenovirus particles comprises subgroup B recombinant human adenovirus particles thus removing adenovirus proteins that are not incorporated into the adenovirus particles, said adenovirus proteins comprising subgroup B adenoviral proteins II, III, IV, and 52.55 k; and 
 analyzing the filtered preparation to determine whether subgroup B adenoviral 52.55 k protein that is not incorporated into adenovirus particles has been removed from the preparation. 
 
 
     
 2. The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the recombinant adenovirus is an Ad35 recombinant adenovirus. 
 
     
 3. A method for purifying a preparation of subgroup B recombinant human adenovirus particles, wherein proteins comprising subgroup B adenoviral proteins II, III, IV, and 52.55 k not incorporated into the recombinant adenovirus particles are to be removed, the method comprising:
 analyzing the filtered preparation to determine whether subgroup B adenoviral protein 52.55 k has been removed from the preparation, said preparation having been previously subjected to a charged filter containing anion exchange groups. 
 
 
     
 4. A method for removing adenovirus proteins II, III, IV, and 52.55 k that are not incorporated into adenovirus particles from a preparation of subgroup B recombinant human adenovirus particles, the method comprising:
 subjecting a preparation of subgroup B recombinant human adenovirus particles to a charged filter that contains anion exchange groups; thus 
 separating and removing the adenovirus proteins II, III, IV, and 52.55 k that are not incorporated into adenovirus particles from the preparation of subgroup B recombinant human adenovirus particles, and 
 analyzing the filtered preparation to determine removal of adenoviral proteins that have not been incorporated into adenovirus particles from the preparation. 
 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 3 , wherein the adenovirus is an Ad35 recombinant adenovirus. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 4 , wherein the adenovirus is an Ad35 recombinant adenovirus. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
