
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A compound selected from the group consisting of the formulas I-XI 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 
 
 
     
 2. A compound selected from the group consisting of formulas XII-XXII 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 
 
 
     
 3. A process for producing compounds I-XI cultivation of cultivating a strain of  Nonomuraea  sp Bp3714-39, using said strain in the presence of a suitable medium comprising at least one source of carbon atoms and at least on source of nitrogen atom to produce compounds I-XI. 
 
     
 4. The process of  claim 3 , wherein said cultivation occurs under aerobic conditions. 
 
     
 5. The process of  claim 3 , wherein said carbon source is selected from the group consisting of agar, corn steep liquor, fish oils, fructose, glucose, glycerol, lactose, malt extract, mannitol, mannose, meat extract, plant oils, saccarose, skim milk powder, starch, wheat extract and yeast extract, or said nitrogen source is selected from the group consisting of amino acid mixture, ammonium, asparagine, brain heart infusion, casein peptones, corn steep liquor, cysteine, meat peptones, nitrate, plant peptones, proline, serine, soy flour, soy protein, tyrosine, valine and yeast extract. 
 
     
 6. The process of  claim 3 , wherein said cultivation is carried out at a temperature from 18째 C. to 40째 C. 
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 3  wherein said cultivation is carried out at a temperature from 28째 C. to 32째 C. 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 3 , wherein said cultivation is carried out at pH from 6 to 9. 
 
     
 9. A method of treating, inhibiting or ameliorating bacterial infection in a subject, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of formulas I-XXII. 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 9  wherein said compound inhibits a bacterial target affecting the lifecycle of bacteria. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 10 , wherein the bacterial target is EF-Tu. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 10 , wherein the compound inhibits protein synthesis in bacteria. 
 
     
 13. A method of treating a bacterial infection comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of compound selected from the group consisting of formulas I-XXII, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with a therapeutically effective amount of at least one or more therapeutic agents or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 
 
     
 14. A method of treating acne or bacterial endocarditis in subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically acceptable amount of a compound of formulas I-XXII. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
