
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. An isolated polynucleotide encoding an isolated variant polypeptide of a cumate repressor protein (CymR), wherein the variant polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence that has at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the amino acid sequence of the variant polypeptide has Gly at the position corresponding to amino acid 142 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and wherein the variant polypeptide has a higher affinity for a CymR response element in the presence of cumate relative to wild-type  Pseudomonas putida  CymR protein. 
 
     
 2. A polynucleotide construct comprising the isolated polynucleotide of  claim 1 , in operable association with a promoter sequence suitable for causing expression of said isolated polynucleotide to generate said variant polypeptide when a host cell is transformed or transfected with said construct. 
 
     
 3. The construct of  claim 2 , further comprising in operable association with said isolated polynucleotide, at least one CymR response element, whereby expression of said isolated polynucleotide in the host cell to generate said variant polypeptide can be regulated at least in part through binding of CymR to said response element. 
 
     
 4. An isolated eukaryotic host cell transfected with the construct of  claim 2 . 
 
     
 5. The eukaryotic host cell of  claim 4 , wherein said eukaryotic cell is a mammalian cell. 
 
     
 6. A method for producing a recombinant protein in the eukaryotic host cell of  claim 4 , the method comprising the steps of:
 (a) transfecting the eukaryotic host cell with a second construct comprising:
 (i) a promoter sequence; 
 (ii) at least one CymR response element; and 
 (iii) an open reading frame encoding said recombinant protein in operable association with the promoter sequence of (i), and said at least one CymR response element of (ii); and 
 
 (b) introducing an effector molecule that regulates CymR-mediated expression into the transfected eukaryotic host cell of step (a) to induce the expression of said open reading frame thereby generating said recombinant protein, 
 wherein said effector molecule is cumate, dimethyl-p-aminobenzoic acid (DM PABA), trimethylcumate, ethylbenzoate, 3,4-dimethylbenzoate, 4-ethylbenzoate, 4-t-butylbenzoate, 4-phenylbenzoate, 4-benzylbenzoate, 4-ethoxybenzoate, 4-propyloxybenzoate, 4-n-butyloxybenzoate, 4-chlorobenzoate, 4-bromobenzoate, 4-iodobenzoate, 4-bromomethylbenzoate, 3,4-dichlorobenzoate, 4-trifluoromethylbenzoate, 4-ethyl-m-xylene, 4-vinyltoluene, 4-n-propyltoluene, 4-allyltoluene, 4-fluoro-p-toluate, 3-chloro-p-toluate, 4-bromo-m-toluate or salts thereof. 
 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 6 , wherein said promoter sequence of (i) is selected from the group consisting of cytomegalovirus (CMV), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), thymidine kinase (tk), heat shock protein (HSP), major late promoter (MLP) and mouse mammary tumour virus (MMTV) promoters. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 6 , wherein said variant polypeptide is expressed in the eukaryotic host cell, thereby to facilitate transactivation and expression of said second construct in response to the presence of said effector molecule, thereby causing expression of said recombinant protein. 
 
     
 9. The isolated polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2, has Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQ ID NO: 2, or has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2 and has Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQID NO: 2. 
 
     
 10. The isolated polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide is a fusion polypeptide further comprising a transactivation domain. 
 
     
 11. The construct of  claim 2 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2, has Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQ ID NO: 2, or has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2 and Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 
     
 12. The construct of  claim 11 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide is a fusion polypeptide further comprising a transactivation domain. 
 
     
 13. The eukaryotic host cell of  claim 4 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2, has Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQ ID NO: 2, or has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2 and Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 
     
 14. The eukaryotic host cell of  claim 13 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide is a fusion polypeptide further comprising a transactivation domain. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 6 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2, has Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQ ID NO: 2, or has Ala at the position corresponding to amino acid 125 of SEQ ID NO: 2 and Met at the position corresponding to amino acid 144 of SEQ ID NO: 2. 
 
     
 16. The method of  claim 6 , wherein the encoded variant polypeptide is a fusion polypeptide further comprising a transactivation domain. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
