
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A packaging system for production of recombinant adenovirus without the concomitant generation of adenovirus having a functional El region, the packaging system comprising:
 a packaging cell containing, integrated into its genome, a nucleic acid encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products, wherein said nucleic acid lacks sequences that encode adenoviral pIX protein; and 
 a recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 region, said recombinant adenovirus vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule that encodes adenoviral pIX protein, said recombinant adenovirus vector lacking overlapping sequences with the nucleic acid encoding E1A and E1B gene products that lead to homologous recombination in said cell resulting in the formation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region. 
 
 
     
 2. The packaging system of  claim 1 , wherein said packaging cell is of human origin. 
 
     
 3. A packaging system for producing recombinant adenovirus without the concomitant generation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region, the packaging system comprising:
 a packaging cell, wherein said packaging cell is of primary cell origin, containing, integrated into its genome, a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products, but lacking sequences encoding adenoviral pIX protein; and 
 a recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 region, the recombinant adenovirus vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral pIX protein, said recombinant adenovirus vector lacking overlapping sequences with the polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products that lead to homologous recombination in the packing cell resulting in the formation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region. 
 
 
     
 4. A packaging system for producing recombinant adenovirus without the concomitant generation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region, the packaging system comprising:
 a packaging cell, wherein said packaging cell is of human embryonic retinoblast origin, containing, integrated into its genome, a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products, but lacking sequences encoding adenoviral pIX protein; and 
 a recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 region, the recombinant adenovirus vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral pIX protein, said recombinant adenovirus vector lacking overlapping sequences with the polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products that lead to homologous recombination in the packing cell resulting in the formation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region. 
 
 
     
 5. A packaging system for producing recombinant adenovirus without the concomitant generation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region, the packaging system comprising:
 a packaging cell containing, integrated into its genome, a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products, wherein said polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products is under control of a heterologous promoter and lacks sequences encoding adenoviral pIX protein; and 
 a recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 region, the recombinant adenovirus vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral pIX protein, said recombinant adenovirus vector lacking overlapping sequences with the polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products that lead to homologous recombination in the packing cell resulting in the formation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region. 
 
 
     
 6. The packaging system of  claim 5 , wherein said heterologous promoter is a human PGK promoter. 
 
     
 7. A packaging system for production of recombinant adenovirus without the concomitant generation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region, the packaging system comprising:
 a packaging cell containing integrated into its genome a nucleic acid encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products, wherein said nucleic acid lacks sequences that encode adenoviral pIX protein; and 
 a recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 region, the recombinant adenovirus vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule that encodes adenoviral pIX protein, the recombinant adenovirus vector lacking overlapping sequences with the nucleic acid encoding E1A and E1B gene products that lead to homologous recombination in said cell resulting in the formation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region, wherein said nucleic acid encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products consists of nucleotides 459-3510 of the E1 region of human adenovirus 5. 
 
 
     
 8. The packaging system according to  claim 7 , wherein said packaging cell is a PER.C6 cell, as deposited under no. 96022940 at the European Collection of Animal Cell Cultures. 
 
     
 9. The packaging system according to  claim 1 , wherein said packaging cell further comprises a nucleic acid encoding an adenoviral E2A gene product. 
 
     
 10. The packaging system according to  claim 9 , wherein said adenoviral E2A gene product comprises the temperature-sensitive E2A ts125 mutation. 
 
     
 11. The packaging system according to  claim 1 , wherein said recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 gene has a deletion of nucleotides 459-3510 of the E1 gene. 
 
     
 12. A packaging system for producing recombinant adenovirus without the concomitant generation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region, the packaging system comprising:
 a packaging cell containing, integrated into its genome, a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products, but lacking sequences encoding adenoviral pIX protein; and 
 a recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 region, wherein said recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 gene comprises a polynucleotide encoding adenoviral pIX protein and a nucleic acid molecule of interest, said recombinant adenovirus vector lacking overlapping sequences with the polynucleotide encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products that lead to homologous recombination in the packing cell resulting in the formation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region. 
 
 
     
 13. A packaging system for production of recombinant adenovirus without the concomitant generation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region, the packaging system comprising:
 a packaging cell containing a nucleic acid encoding adenoviral E1A and E1B gene products, wherein the nucleic acid lacks sequences that encode adenoviral pIX protein, wherein the packaging cell is obtained from a cell as deposited under No. 96022940 at the European Collection of Animal Cell Cultures; and 
 a recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 region, the recombinant adenovirus vector lacking overlapping sequences with the nucleic acid encoding E1A and E1B gene products that lead to homologous recombination thereof in the packaging cell resulting in the formation of adenovirus having a functional E1 region. 
 
 
     
 14. The packaging system according to  claim 13 , wherein the packaging cell further comprises an E1A-independent transcriptional initiation region operatively linked to an adenoviral E2A region. 
 
     
 15. The packaging system according to  claim 13 , wherein the packaging cell further comprises a packaging construct comprising a mutation in an adenoviral E2A region such that at least one E2A gene product is temperature sensitive. 
 
     
 16. The packaging system according to  claim 13 , wherein the recombinant adenovirus vector comprises a portion from a human adenovirus 5 genome from which nucleotides 459-3510 have been deleted. 
 
     
 17. The packaging system according to  claim 13 , wherein the packaging cell further comprises a packaging construct comprising a transcriptional initiation region operatively linked to an adenoviral E2A region having a temperature-sensitive is 125 mutation. 
 
     
 18. The packaging system according to  claim 13 , wherein the recombinant adenovirus vector with a deletion in the E1 gene comprises a nucleic acid of interest.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
