
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A biologically pure microorganism of  Sporolactobacillus vineae  strain KCTC 11493BP which inhibits growth of intestinal pathogenic microorganisms. 
 
     
 2. The  Sporolactobacillus vineae  strain KCTC 11493BP according to  claim 1 , wherein the strain has the 16S rRNA sequence represented by SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
     
 3. The  Sporolactobacillus vineae  strain KCTC 11493BP according to  claim 1 , wherein the intestinal pathogenic microorganism is selected from the group consisting of  Vibrio cholerae, V. alginolyticus, V. fluvialis, V. parahaemolyticus, Aeromonas bivalvium  and  Listonella anguillarum.    
 
     
 4. A probiotic composition comprising the  Sporolactobacillus vineae  strain KCTC 11493BP of  claim 1  and a carrier. 
 
     
 5. The probiotic composition according to  claim 4 , wherein the probiotic composition has growth inhibitory activity against an intestinal pathogenic microorganism selected from the group consisting of  Vibrio cholerae, V. alginolyticus, V. fluvialis, V. parahaemolyticus, Aeromonas bivalvium  and  Listonella anguillarum.    
 
     
 6. A method for the improvement of intestinal microflora, said method comprising orally or parenterally administering the composition of  claim 4  to a subject in need thereof. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the composition has growth inhibitory activity against an intestinal pathogenic microorganism selected from the group consisting of  Vibrio cholerae, V. alginolyticus, V. fluvialis, V. parahaemolyticus, Aeromonas bivalvium  and  Listonella angufflarum.    
 
     
 8. A health food composition for the improvement of intestinal microflora comprising the  Sporolactobacfflus vineae  strain KCTC 11493BP of  claim 1  and health food. 
 
     
 9. The health food composition according to  claim 8 , wherein the health food is a dairy product. 
 
     
 10. The health food composition according to  claim 8 , wherein the health food composition has growth inhibitory activity against an intestinal pathogenic microorganism selected from the group consisting of  Vibrio cholerae, V. alginolyticus, V. fluvialis, V. parahaemolyticus, Aeromonas bivalvium  and  Listonella anguillarum.    
 
     
 11. A feed additive for the improvement of intestinal microflora comprising the  Sporolactobacfflus vineae  strain KCTC 11493BP of  claim 1  and a feed ingredient. 
 
     
 12. The feed additive according to  claim 11 , wherein the feed additive has growth inhibitory activity against an intestinal pathogenic microorganism selected from the group consisting of  Vibrio cholerae, V. alginolyticus, V. fluvialis, V. parahaemolyticus, Aeromonas bivalvium  and  Listonella anguillarum.    
 
     
 13. A method for producing a probiotic composition comprising the steps of culturing the  Sporolactobacillus vineae strain KCTC  11493BP of  claim 1  in a culture medium, recovering said strain and adding a carrier to form said probiotic composition. 
 
     
 14. The method according to  claim 13 , wherein the recovering step is performed by one or more methods selected from the group consisting of centrifugation, concentration using microfilter and a method using an absorbent. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
