
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A process for recovering and concentrating the farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone of structural Formula I 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 comprising:
 a) fermenting a strain of a microorganism that produces the farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone of Formula I in an aqueous culture medium, thereby producing a fermentation broth comprising said farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone, wherein the bacterium is  Micromonospora  sp. [S01]046 having IDAC accession number 231203-01 or  Micromonospora  sp. [S01U02]046 having IDAC accession number 070905-01; 
 b) adjusting said fermentation broth by acidification to a pH value of between about 2 to 4 to allow said farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone to associate with a particulate matter present in said broth; 
 c) harvesting said particulate matter from said broth, thereby obtaining a harvested particulate matter; 
 d) extracting said harvested particulate matter with a volume of an organic solvent in a proportion of about 2:1 to about 5:1 to said harvested particulate matter, thereby forming an extract; and 
 e) subjecting said extract to evaporation or water displacement, thereby forming a first concentrate comprising said farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone of Formula I, wherein said first concentrate comprises said farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone at a concentration greater than about 50-fold than said farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone in said fermentation broth of a), and wherein at least about 50% of the amount of said farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone in said fermentation broth of a) is recovered in said first concentrate. 
 
 
     
 2. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the particulate matter comprises the microorganism present in the fermentation broth. 
 
     
 3. The process of  claim 2 , wherein the particulate matter further comprises a first adsorbent resin. 
 
     
 4. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the organic solvent comprises i) at least one lower alkyl alcohol selected from the group consisting of ethanol, propanol, iso-propanol, butanol or methanol, or a mixture thereof; ii) ethyl acetate; and iii) acetonitrile. 
 
     
 5. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the harvesting of (c) is by ultrafiltration or by centrifugation. 
 
     
 6. The process of  claim 1 , wherein step (d) comprises one to three rounds of extraction using the organic solvent. 
 
     
 7. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the volume of the organic solvent is calculated in proportion to the harvested particulate matter mass or to the harvested particulate matter volume. 
 
     
 8. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the extract is subjected to evaporation. 
 
     
 9. The process of  claim 1 , wherein the subjecting step (e) is water displacement, wherein said water displacement comprises incubating the extract with an absorbent resin to form a mixture, followed by an addition of water to the mixture to displace the farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone of Formula I onto the resin added at step (e), thereby forming the first concentrate comprising the farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone. 
 
     
 10. The process of  claim 1 , wherein said fermentation broth of a) comprises about 10 mg/L to about 465 mg/L of said farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone. 
 
     
 11. The process of  claim 1 , further comprising processing said first concentrate obtained by the method of  claim 1  to reduce a level of an impurity in said first concentrate to thereby produce a second concentrate. 
 
     
 12. The process of  claim 11 , further comprising the step of crystallizing from said second concentrate the farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone of Formula I to thereby produce a crystal of the farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone of Formula I suitable for use in the preparation of a pharmaceutical formulation. 
 
     
 13. The process of  claim 9 , wherein the adsorbent resin added at step (e) is mixed with the extract in a ratio (W/W) of about 10 times to about 40 times of the farnesylated dibenzodiazepinone of Formula I present in said extract, and wherein the water is added to the mixture at a volumetric rate (V/V) of about 0.5% to about 20% per minute of the volume of the mixture. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
