
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 1. A composition comprising conditioned medium, wherein said medium has been conditioned by the UCHT1 rat thyroid cell line having deposit number DSM ACC2535. 
 
     
 2. The composition of  claim 1 , further comprising one or more cells, wherein said medium increases the proliferation potential of the one or more cells. 
 
     
 3. The composition of  claim 2 , wherein said one or more cells comprise a plurality of cells of two or more cell types. 
 
     
 4. A method for proliferating cells, comprising culturing one or more target cells with conditioned medium prepared from the UCHT1 rat thyroid cell line having deposit number DSM ACC2535 for a period of time sufficient to increase the proliferation potential of the one or more target cells; and including the cells within a composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, for transplantation. 
 
     
 5. An isolated cell that has been immortalized by contact with conditioned medium prepared from the UCHT1 rat thyroid cell line having deposit number DSM ACC2535. 
 
     
 6. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the contact with the conditioned medium causes said cell to have a division rate of at least once every 24 hours. 
 
     
 7. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human cell. 
 
     
 8. The isolate cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a porcine cell. 
 
     
 9. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a bovine cell. 
 
     
 10. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human neural cell. 
 
     
 11. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human neuronal cell. 
 
     
 12. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is an islet cell. 
 
     
 13. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human islet cell. 
 
     
 14. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a stem cell or precursor cell. 
 
     
 15. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human stem cell or human precursor cell. 
 
     
 16. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human adult stern cell. 
 
     
 17. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human secretory cell. 
 
     
 18. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a parathyroid cell. 
 
     
 19. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a human parathyroid cell. 
 
     
 20. The isolated cell of  claim 5 , wherein the cell is a genetically modified cell. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
