
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A yeast substrain deposited as deposit CCTCC M 2012254 in International Depository Authority China Center for Type Culture Collection (CCTCC), wherein said yeast substrain is a  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  substrain having an upstream regulation region of hsp104 gene which has been replaced with a nucleic acid fragment comprising:
 a first portion comprising
 two FIp/FRT flippase reaction sites, and 
 a sequence of an antibiotic resistance gene between the two FIp/FRT flippase reaction sites; and 
 
 a second portion downstream of the first portion and comprising a regulation region of hsp26 gene. 
 
 
     
 2. A method for making a  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  substrain designated as CCTCC M 2012254 in International Depository Authority China Center for Type Culture Collection (CCTCC), capable of fermenting at a temperature higher than 42° C. to produce ethanol comprising:
 obtaining a plasmid comprising:
 a nucleic acid fragment comprising:
 a first portion comprising
 two FIp/FRT flippase reaction sites and 
 a sequence of a antibiotic resistance gene between the two 
 FIp/FRT flippase reaction sites, and 
 
 a second portion downstream of the first portion and comprising a regulation region of hsp26 gene; and 
 
 two homologous sequences flanking upstream and downstream of the nucleic acid fragment corresponding to hsp104 gene and a upstream regulation region of the hsp104 gene; 
 transforming a  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  strain with the plasmid; and 
 screening a  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  substrain the upstream regulation region of the hsp104 gene of which has been replaced with the nucleic acid fragment. 
 
 
 
     
 3. The method as claimed in  claim 2 , wherein the antibiotic resistance gene is the sequence of KanMX6 for resistance against kanamycin. 
 
     
 4. The method as claimed in  claim 2 , wherein each of the FIp/FRT flippase reaction sites is selected from a group consisting of:
 a FRT sequence and 
 a FRT sequence comprising a core region having less than 4 mutated nucleotides. 
 
 
     
 5. The method as claimed in  claim 2 , wherein each of the two homologous sequences has a length of 40 base pairs. 
 
     
 6. The method as claimed in  claim 2 , wherein the  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  strain belongs to  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  Kyokai strain series. 
 
     
 7. A yeast substrain, which is made by the method as claimed in  claim 2 . 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
