
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for detecting a human metapneumovirus in a sample, wherein the method comprises contacting the sample with a nucleic acid encoding an amino acid sequence that is greater than 88% identical to the amino acid sequence of the N protein of MPV isolate 00-1, SEQ ID NO.: 1. 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the amino acid sequence is: SEQ ID No.: 1. 
 
     
 3. A method for detecting a human metapneumovirus in a sample, wherein the method comprises contacting the sample with an antibody that specifically binds to a protein that is greater than 88% identical to the amino acid sequence of the N protein of MPV isolate 00-1, SEQ ID NO.: 1. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 3 , wherein the protein consists of an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No.: 1. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 4 , wherein the method further comprises an immune fluorescence assay. 
 
     
 6. A method for detecting a human metapneumovirus in a sample, wherein the method comprises contacting the sample with a first nucleic acid that is at least 90% homologous to a second nucleic acid, wherein the second nucleic acid encodes, or wherein the second nucleic acid is complementary to the nucleic acid that encodes, a protein, or fragment thereof, consisting of a sequence that is greater than 88% identical to the amino acid sequence of the N protein of MPV isolate 00-1, SEQ ID NO.: 1. 
 
     
 7. A method for detecting a human metapneumovirus in a sample, wherein the method comprises contacting the sample with one or more nucleic acids that are at least 90% homologous to the genome or antigenome of the virus isolate deposited as I-2614 with CNCM, Paris. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 1  or  7 , wherein the nucleic acid sequence is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID No.: 1. 
 
     
 9. A method for detecting an antibody against human metapneumovirus in a sample, wherein the method comprises contacting the sample with a protein comprising the amino acid sequence of: SEQ ID No.: 1. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
