
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A polynucleotide which encodes an insect inhibitory protein comprising a Cry1Ac polypeptide, said Cry1Ac polypeptide comprising domains I, II, and III, and a supplemental domain III of a Cry1F, Cry2Ab or Cry3Bb operably linked to domain III of said Cry1Ac polypeptide, and wherein said operable linkage of said supplemental domain III is
 (a) to the N-terminus of said domain III of said Cry1Ac polypeptide; or 
 (b) to the C-terminus of said first domain III of said Cry1Ac polypeptide. 
 
 
     
 2. The polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein said supplemental domain III comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of a native Cry1F, Cry2Ab and Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence. 
 
     
 3. The polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein said supplemental domain III comprises an engineered Cry1F, Cry2Ab or Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence, said engineered Cry1F, Cry2Ab or Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence comprising (a) amino acid substitutions, insertions, and/or deletions compared to an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of a native Cry1F, Cry2Ab and Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence, wherein said engineered Cry1F, Cry2Ab or Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence is at least 95% sequence identical to the amino acid sequence of its corresponding native sequence, or (b) segments of two or more Cry1F, Cry2Ab or Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequences, or (c) amino acid substitutions, insertions, and/or deletions in one or more segments of subpart (b), wherein said segment of said Cry1F, Cry2Ab or Cry3Bb domain III polypeptide sequence is at least 95% sequence identical to its corresponding native segment's sequence. 
 
     
 4. The polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein said supplemental domain III is a Cry1IF domain III and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 95% sequence identical to SEQ ID NO:1. 
 
     
 5. The polynucleotide of  claim 4 , wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against an  Agrotis , a  Helicoverpa , or a  Striacosta  insect relative to a Cry1IAc polypeptide lacking said supplemental domain III. 
 
     
 6. The polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein said supplemental domain III is a Cry2Ab domain III and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 95% sequence identical to SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
     
 7. The polynucleotide of  claim 6 , wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against a  Helicoverpa , or a  Striacosta  insect relative to a Cry1Ac polypeptide lacking said supplemental domain III. 
 
     
 8. The polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein said supplemental domain III is a Cry3Bb domain III and wherein said insect inhibitory protein comprises a polypeptide sequence that is at least 95% sequence identical to SEQ ID NO:5. 
 
     
 9. The polynucleotide of  claim 8 , wherein said insect inhibitory protein exhibits improved insecticidal activity against a  Striacosta  insect relative to a Cry1Ac polypeptide lacking said supplemental domain III. 
 
     
 10. A transgenic plant comprising the polynucleotide of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 11. The transgenic plant of  claim 10 , wherein said plant comprises said insect inhibitory protein at a concentration that inhibits a Lepidopteran insect. 
 
     
 12. The transgenic plant of  claim 11 , wherein said Lepidopteran insect is an  Agrotis , a  Helicoverpa , an  Ostrinia , a  Striacosta  or a  Spodoptera  insect. 
 
     
 13. A transgenic plant part comprising the polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein said plant part is a leaf, a stem, a flower, a sepal, a fruit, a root, or a seed. 
 
     
 14. A transformed host cell comprising the polynucleotide of  claim 1 , wherein said host cell is a bacterial cell or a plant cell. 
 
     
 15. The transformed host cell of  claim 14 , wherein said plant cell is selected from the group consisting of alfalfa, banana, barley, bean, broccoli, cabbage, canola, carrot, cassava, castor, cauliflower, celery, chickpea, citrus, coconut, coffee, corn, clover, cotton, a cucurbit, Douglas fir, eggplant, eucalyptus, flax, garlic, grape, hops, lettuce, Loblolly pine, millets, melons, nut, oat, olive, onion, ornamental, palm, pasture grass, pea, peanut, pepper, pigeonpea, pine, potato, poplar, pumpkin, Radiata pine, radish, rapeseed, rice, rye, safflower, shrub, sorghum, Southern pine, soybean, spinach, squash, strawberry, sugar beet, sugarcane, sunflower, sweet gum, sweet potato, switchgrass, tea, tobacco, tomato, triticale, turf grass, watermelon, and wheat plant cells. 
 
     
 16. The transformed host cell of  claim 14 , wherein said bacterial cell is selected from the group consisting of an  Agrobacterium , a  Bacillus , an  Escherichia , a  Salmonella , a  Pseudomonas , and a  Rhizobium  bacterial cell. 
 
     
 17. The transformed host cell of  claim 14 , wherein said bacterial cell is a  Bacillus thuringiensis  cell. 
 
     
 18. A method for controlling a Lepidopteran insect, said method comprising the steps of:
 (a) providing a Lepidopteran insect inhibitory amount of an insect inhibitory protein, wherein said insect inhibitory protein is encoded by the polynucleotide of  claim 1 ; and 
 (b) contacting said Lepidopteran insect with said inhibitory amount of said insect inhibitory protein, thereby controlling said Lepidopteran insect. 
 
 
     
 19. The method of  claim 18 , wherein said Lepidopteran insect is an  Agrotis , a  Spodoptera , a  Helicoverpa , an  Ostrinia , or a  Striacosta  insect. 
 
     
 20. The method of  claim 18 , wherein said Lepidopteran insect inhibitory amount of said insect inhibitory protein is provided in a Lepidopteran insect diet in step (a) and said Lepidopteran insect is contacted in step (b) by permitting said Lepidopteran insect to feed on said diet. 
 
     
 21. The method of  claim 20 , wherein said Lepidopteran insect diet is a transgenic plant, said transgenic plant comprising said polynucleotide. 
 
     
 22. A method for controlling an insect pest, said method comprising the steps of:
 (a) providing an insect inhibitory amount of an insect inhibitory protein in combination with an insect control agent that is different from said insect inhibitory protein, wherein said insect inhibitory protein is encoded by the polynucleotide of  claim 1 ; and 
 (b) contacting said insect pest with said inhibitory amount of said insect inhibitory protein and said insect control agent, thereby controlling said insect pest. 
 
 
     
 23. The method of  claim 22 , wherein said insect control agent is selected from the group consisting of an insect inhibitory dsRNA molecule, a Cry1A protein, a Cry1B protein, a Cry1C protein, a Cry1F protein, a VIP protein, a Cry2Ab protein and a Cry3Bb protein. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
