
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for determining the level of a FVIII protein or a fragment thereof in a sample, comprising:
 (a) contacting the sample with a first antibody directed to a FVIII antigen, said first antibody being attached to a first bead having at least one first characteristic, wherein the FVIII protein or fragment thereof comprising said FVIII antigen binds to said first antibody being attached to the first bead, thereby forming a capture antibody, and forms a complex therewith; 
 (b) contacting the sample with a control antibody not directed to a FVIII antigen, said control antibody being attached to a second bead having at least one second characteristic distinguishable from the first characteristic of the first bead, wherein one or more proteins in the sample may form non-specific complexes with the control antibody; 
 (c) contacting the complexes formed in steps (a) and (b) with a second antibody directed to the FVIII antigen, said second antibody being labeled with a marker, to form a complex which includes the antibody of step (a) or (b), the FVIII protein or fragment thereof comprising said FVIII antigen, and the second antibody; and 
 (d) subtracting the quantity of the second labeled antibody in complexed associated with the second beads attached to the control antibody from the quantity of the second labeled antibody in complexes associated with the first beads attached to the first antibody directed against the FVIII antigen, thereby removing spurious non-specific binding and more accurately determining the level of the FVIII protein or fragment thereof comprising said antigen in the sample. 
 
 
     
 2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the sample comprises plasma. 
 
     
 3. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the sample comprises plasma obtained from a human having or at risk of developing a blood clotting disorder. 
 
     
 4. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the sample is a pharmaceutical product comprising FVIII protein obtained from human blood. 
 
     
 5. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the sample comprises recombinant FVIII protein. 
 
     
 6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the first antibody can bind to FVIII under conditions wherein FVIII is dissociated from von Willebrand factor. 
 
     
 7. The method of  claim 1 , wherein an epitope recognized by the first antibody resides in the L-chain of FVIII. 
 
     
 8. The method of  claim 7 , wherein the first antibody is anti-FVIII-68 mAb, deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-6891. 
 
     
 9. The method of  claim 1 , wherein an epitope recognized by the second antibody resides in the H/L-chain of FVIII. 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the second antibody is anti-FVIII-24 mAb, deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-6890. 
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the determined level of FVIII protein in the sample is between about 0.001 nM and 1000 nM. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the first antibody is anti-FVIII-68 mAb and the second antibody is anti-FVIII-24 mAb. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising prior to step (a) contacting the sample with a reducing agent that releases FVIII from a FVIII-binding molecule, wherein the reducing agent is selected from the group consisting of β-mercaptoethanol, sodium borohydride, dithiothreitol, erytritol, and ethane thiol. 
 
     
 14. An isolated antibody directed to FVIII protein, wherein the epitope recognized by said antibody resides in the H/L-chain of FVIII antigen, said antibody having a binding affinity (IC 50 ) in the range of about 50-100 nM.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
