
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. A pigmented oleaginous yeast biomass comprising a recombinant  Yarrowia lipolytica  capable of accumulating at least 25 weight percent of its dry cell weight as oil and capable of producing (i) a commercially significant amount of at least one carotenoid compound selected from the group consisting of: astaxanthin, β-carotene, lycopene, zeaxanthin, lutein and canthaxanthin and (ii) high level production of at least one polyunsaturated fatty acid selected from the group consisting of an omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid and an omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid. 
 
     
 2. The pigmented oleaginous yeast biomass of  claim 1  wherein the omega-3 or the omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid is selected from the group consisting of: alpha-linolenic acid, arachidonic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid. 
 
     
 3. The pigmented oleaginous yeast biomass of  claim 1 , wherein the recombinant  Yarrowia lipolytica  comprises:
 a) at least one copy of a crtE gene encoding a geranyl pyrophosphate synthase; 
 b) at least one copy of a crtB gene encoding a phytoene synthase; 
 c) at least one copy of a crtI gene encoding a phytoene desaturase; 
 d) at least one copy of a crtY gene encoding a lycopene cyclase; 
 e) at least one copy of a crtZ gene encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase; and 
 f) at least one copy of a crtW gene encoding a carotenoid ketolase. 
 
 
     
 4. The pigmented oleaginous yeast biomass of  claim 3 , wherein the recombinant  Yarrowia lipolytica  further comprises:
 a) at least one gene encoding a resveratrol synthase; 
 b) at least one gene encoding a coumaroyl-CoA ligase; and 
 c) at least one gene encoding a polypeptide having both phenylalanine ammonia lyase activity and tyrosine ammonia lyase activity. 
 
 
     
 5. The pigmented oleaginous yeast biomass of  claim 2 , wherein the recombinant  Yarrowia lipolytica  comprises at least 10% by weight eicosapentaenoic acid in the total lipids of the  Yarrowia lipolytica.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
