
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for generating in vitro an antibody, or one of its functional fragments directed against a tumoral antigen expressed at the surface of a tumor resistant to at least one anti-tumoral compound, the method comprising a step consisting of immunizing animals directly with a milled homogenate and/or a suspension and/or a cell lysate stemming from said resistant tumor, and a step consisting of selecting antibodies recognizing the resistant tumor and not the native tumor from which the resistant tumor stems, characterized in that said resistant tumor is obtained directly by biopsy and/or surgery of a patient following, or having followed, a therapeutic treatment with at least said anti-tumoral compound having induced the resistance of the tumor, and in that said at least one anti-tumoral compound is a monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
 2. The method according to  claim 1 , characterized in that said immunization is carried out via intraperitoneal and/or subcutaneous and/or intravenous and/or intrasplenic injection. 
 
     
 3. The method according to  claim 1 , characterized in that said antibody, or one of its functional fragments, directed against a tumoral antigen expressed at the surface of said resistant tumor is a monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
 4. The method according to  claim 1 , characterized in that said antibody, or one of its functional fragments is an immunoglobulin selected from the group of an IgG, an IgA, an IgM, an IgD or an IgE. 
 
     
 5. The method according to  claim 4 , characterized in that said antibody, or one of its functional fragments, is an IgG of gamma 1, gamma 2 or gamma 4 isotype. 
 
     
 6. The method according to  claim 1 , characterized in that said functional fragment is selected from Fv, Fab, (Fab′)2, Fab′, scFv, scFv-Fc fragments and diabodies, or any fragment for which the in vivo life-time would increase. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , characterized in that said fragment for which the in vivo life-time would have increased is a pegylated fragment. 
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 1 , characterized in that it comprises the following steps: i) directly immunizing animals with a milled homogenate and/or a suspension and/or a cell lysate stemming from a resistant tumor, ii) fusing cells from the spleen of the immunized animal of step i) with myeloma cells in order to obtain hybridomas, and iii) selecting by differential selection, the hybridomas secreting antibodies which specifically recognize the antigens expressed at the surface of the tumoral cells of the resistant tumor and the expression of which is induced by the anti-tumoral treatment. 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 8 , characterized in that said step iii) for selecting hybridomas secreting antibodies which do not recognize the antigens of the native tumoral cell is achieved by differential screening of the antibodies secreted by the hybridomas between the native tumor and the resistant tumor. 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 1 , characterized in that said antibody is monoclonal antibody selected from the group of antibodies, or their functional fragments, directed against growth factor receptors, molecules involved in angiogenesis, chemokines or integrins involved in cell migration phenomena. 
 
     
 11. The method according to  claim 1 , characterized in that said at least one anti-tumoral compound consists in a combination of at least two, anti-tumoral compounds of different nature, and/or having different action mechanisms, and/or targeting different proteins. 
 
     
 12. The method according to  claim 11 , characterized in that said at least one anti-tumoral compound consists in a combination of at least three anti-tumoral compounds of different nature, and/or having different action mechanisms, and/or targeting different proteins. 
 
     
 13. The method according to  claim 11 , characterized in that said combination of anti-tumoral compounds consists in a combination of monoclonal antibodies or of their functional fragments. 
 
     
 14. The method according to  claim 13 , characterized in that said combination of monoclonal antibodies, or of its functional fragments consists in a combination of antibodies selected from anti-IGF-IR, anti-EGFR, anti-Her/2neu, anti-VEGF, anti-VEGFR, anti-CXCR, anti-cMET, anti-RON antibodies. 
 
     
 15. The method according to  claim 14 , characterized in that said combination consists in the combination of an anti-IGF-IR antibody, an anti-EGFR antibody and an anti-Her/2neu antibody. 
 
     
 16. The method according to  claim 15 , characterized in that said combination consists in a combination of monoclonal antibodies i) 7C10, produced by the hybridoma deposited at the Collection Nationale de Cultures de Microorganismes (CNCM) under the reference number I-2717, ii) 225, produced by the hybridoma deposited at the ATCC under the reference number HB-8508, and iii) h4D5, the commercially available Herceptin. 
 
     
 17. The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the generated antibody is a therapeutic and/or diagnostic monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
 18. A method for identifying novel therapeutic and/or diagnostic targets, either intracellular or extracellular, involved in resistance phenomena, characterized in that it consists of applying the method according to  claim 1  for obtaining a monoclonal antibody and then identifying the protein recognized by said monoclonal antibody. 
 
     
 19. A method for generating and selecting in vitro an antibody, or one of its functional fragments, capable of inhibiting the resistance of a tumor to an anti-tumoral compound or a method for generating and selecting in vitro an antibody, or one of its functional fragments, directed against the tumoral antigen expressed at the surface of a tumor resistant to at least one anti-tumoral compound, said tumoral antigen being involved in the resistance of said tumor to the anti-tumoral compound, characterized in that the method comprises: a) a method for generating in vitro an antibody, or one of its functional fragments, according to  claim 1 , said antibody being directed against said tumoral antigen specifically expressed at the surface of the resistant tumor, said tumoral antigen not being expressed at the surface of the cells of the native tumor from which the resistant tumor stems; b) putting the antibody obtained in step a) in vitro or in vivo in contact with the tumor resistant to the anti-tumoral compound; and c) selecting said antibody if an inhibitory effect of this antibody on the resistance of the tumor to the anti-tumoral compound is demonstrated. 
 
     
 20. A monoclonal antibody, or one of its functional fragments, obtained by applying the method according to  claim 8 . 
 
     
 21. The monoclonal antibody according to  claim 20 , characterized in that said functional fragment is selected from the Fv, Fab, (Fab′)2, Fab′, scFv, scFv-Fc fragments and diabodies, or any fragment for which the half-life would have been increased. 
 
     
 22. The monoclonal antibody according to  claim 21 , characterized in that said fragment for which the in vivo half-life would have increased is a pegylated fragment.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
