
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. An attenuated  Flavabacterium  spp. strain suitable for use as an active component of a safe and effective immunological composition, which is suitable for eliciting in a fish an immune response against at least one virulent  Flavobacterium  spp. wherein the strain is selected from the group consisting of strain 17-23 deposited as CECT 7737, and strain 16-534 deposited as CECT 7736. 
 
     
 2. A safe and effective immunological composition comprising at least one attenuated strain of a genomovar II  Flavobacterium  spp., wherein the attenuated strain is resistant to rifampicin, and wherein the attenuated strain is capable of eliciting an immune response in fish against a subsequent natural exposure to, or experimental challenge with, at least one virulent  Flavabacterium  ssp. strain, wherein the attenuated strain is selected from the group consisting of strain 17-23 deposited as CECT 7737, and strain 16-534 deposited as CECT 7736. 
 
     
 3. The composition of  claim 2 , wherein the composition is a vaccine composition, which is capable of eliciting a protective immune response in fish against a subsequent natural exposure to, or experimental challenge with, at least one virulent  Flavabacterium  ssp. strain. 
 
     
 4. The composition of  claim 2 , further comprising a pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable carrier. 
 
     
 5. The composition of  claim 2 , further comprising a stabilization buffer. 
 
     
 6. The composition of  claim 5 , wherein the stabilization buffer comprises:
 a. FeSO 4 ; 
 b. CaCl 2 ; 
 c. KH 2 PO 4 ; and 
 d. MgSO 4 . 
 
 
     
 7. The composition of  claim 5 , wherein the stabilization buffer comprises:
 a. about 0.4 μM FeSO 4 ; 
 b. about 4.6 μM CaCl 2 ; 
 c. about 100 μM KH 2 PO 4 ; and 
 d. about 120 μM MgSO 4 . 
 
 
     
 8. The composition of  claim 5 , wherein the buffer stabilizes the composition for at least about two months when the composition is stored at ambient temperature. 
 
     
 9. A method of inducing protective immunity in fish against exposure to, or experimental challenge with, virulent strains of genomovar I or II  Flavobacterium  spp., comprising the step of administering to said fish the composition of  claim 2 , thereby inducing the protective immunity. 
 
     
 10. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the virulent strain is either a genomovar I or II  F. columnare.    
 
     
 11. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the fish is a freshwater fish. 
 
     
 12. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the fish is a tilapia, a catfish, a zebrafish a salmon, a trout, a carp, a tuna or a shellfish. 
 
     
 13. The method of  claim 9 , wherein the administration is by immersion vaccination. 
 
     
 14. A method for producing the composition of  claim 5  comprising the stabilization buffer, the method comprising the step of re-suspending the at least one attenuated  Flavobacterium  spp. strain in the stabilization buffer. 
 
     
 15. The method of  claim 14 , comprising the steps of:
 a. growing the attenuated  Flavobacterium  spp. strain in a medium and pelleting the  Flavobacterium  spp. strain by centrifugation at approximately 5,000 rpm for 5 minutes; 
 b. removing the medium; 
 c. re-suspending the  Flavobacterium  spp. strain in the stabilization buffer; 
 d. transferring the resuspended cells to a sterile container, thereby producing the composition comprising the stabilization buffer.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
