
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. An isolated biologically pure culture of  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 deposited under ATCC accession number PTA-8831, wherein the Maseca-1 is lyophilized. 
 
     
 2. The  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 according to  claim 1 , wherein the Maseca-1 is in a form of vegetative cells, spores, or a combination thereof. 
 
     
 3. A probiotic composition comprising the lyophilized  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 4. A food product comprising the lyophilized  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 5. The food product according to  claim 4 , comprising a baked composition of an edible starch. 
 
     
 6. A symbiotic composition comprising the lyophilized  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 of  claim 1  in combination with at least one bifidogenic or lactobacillogenic oligosaccharide that is not readily digested by pathogenic bacteria and that promotes the growth of Maseca-1. 
 
     
 7. The composition according to  claim 6 , wherein the at least one bifidogenic or lactobacillogenic oligosaccharide is selected from the group consisting of: fructooligosaccharides (FOS), galactooligosaccharides (GOS), xylooligosaccharides (XOS), sugar acids, sugar alcohols and long-chain polymers. 
 
     
 8. The  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 according to  claim 1 , wherein the Maseca-1 is disrupted to form cell wall fractions. 
 
     
 9. A method for inhibiting undesired microorganisms in a material containing or exposed to the microorganisms, comprising exposing the material to an effective amount of an inhibitor of the undesired microorganisms, the inhibitor being a biologically pure culture of the lyophilized  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 9 , wherein the material is a food product. 
 
     
 11. The method according to  claim 9 , wherein the material is a baked food product. 
 
     
 12. A method of treating a bacterial gastrointestinal infection in a human or animal, comprising:
 orally administering to a subject in need thereof a composition comprising viable cells of the lyophilized  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 of  claim 1 ; and 
 allowing the  Bacillus subtilis  Maseca-1 to grow in the subject's gastrointestinal tract, thereby reducing the bacterial gastrointestinal infection. 
 
 
     
 13. A method for modulating digestion in a human or animal comprising orally administering to the human or animal the probiotic composition of  claim 3 , in a quantity sufficient to obtain a desired level of modulation. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
