
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:  
   
 1. An adenovirus packaging cell line permissive for replication of an E1A/E1B deficient adenovirus vector, wherein the cell line comprises an adenovirus E1A coding sequence operably linked to a first promoter and an adenovirus E1B coding sequence operably linked to a second promoter, separate from the first promoter, wherein both the first and second promoters lack substantial sequence identity with a native adenovirus E1A or E1B promoter, and wherein the adenovirus E1A coding sequence and the adenovirus E1B coding sequence are stably integrated into the cell line. 
 
     
 2. The adenovirus packaging cell line of  claim 1 , wherein the adenovirus E1A coding sequence and the adenovirus E1B coding sequence are stably integrated at different sites in the cell line. 
 
     
 3. The adenovirus packaging cell line of  claim 2 , wherein the packaging cell line is of human origin. 
 
     
 4. An adenovirus packaging cell line comprising a first expression vector and a second expression vector stably integrated into the genome of the cell line, wherein the first expression vector comprises human adenovirus E1A coding sequences, operably linked to a first non-adenoviral heterologous promoter, and the second expression vector comprises human adenovirus E1B coding sequences operably linked to a second non-adenoviral heterologous promoter, separate from the first non-adenoviral heterologous promoter. 
 
     
 5. A method of producing the adenovirus packaging cell line of  claim 1 , the method comprising: introducing into a cell line permissive for adenovirus replication, nucleic acid comprising (i) an adenovirus E1A coding sequence operably linked to a first promoter that lacks substantial sequence identity with a native adenovirus E1A or E1B promoter and (ii) an adenovirus E1B coding sequence operably linked to a second promoter, separate from the first promoter, that lacks substantial sequence identity with a native adenovirus E1A or E1B promoter, and wherein the nucleic acid comprising the adenovirus E1A coding sequence and the nucleic acid comprising the adenovirus E1B coding sequence are present on separate vectors. 
 
     
 6. A method of producing an adenoviral vector substantially free of replication-competent adenovirus, the method comprising:
 producing an adenoviral vector substantially free of replication-competent adenovirus utilizing the adenovirus packaging cell line of  claim 1 . 
 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the packaging cell line comprises a first expression vector and a second expression vector stably integrated into the packaging cell line's genome, wherein the first expression vector comprises adenoviral E1A coding sequences, operably linked to a first non-adenoviral heterologous promoter, and the second expression vector comprises adenoviral E1B coding sequences operably linked to a second non-adenoviral heterologous promoter, separate from the first non-adenoviral heterologous promoter. 
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the adenoviral E1A coding sequence and the adenoviral E1B sequence are stably integrated at different sites in the packaging cell line. 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the packaging cell line is of human origin. 
 
     
 10. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the adenoviral vector is replication defective. 
 
     
 11. The method according to  claim 6 , further comprising admixing the adenoviral vector substantially free of replication-competent adenovirus together with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. 
 
     
 12. A cell comprising an adenovirus E1A coding sequence operatively linked to a first promoter that lacks substantial sequence identity with a native adenovirus E1A or E1B promoter and an adenovirus E1B coding sequence operably linked to a second promoter that lacks substantial sequence identity with a native adenovirus E1A or E1B promoter, separate from the first non-adenoviral heterologous promoter, and wherein the adenovirus E1A coding sequence and the adenovirus E1B coding sequence are stably integrated into the packaging cell line. 
 
     
 13. The adenovirus packaging cell line of  claim 1  together with an adenoviral vector substantially free of wild-type replication-competent adenovirus. 
 
     
 14. The adenovirus packaging cell line of  claim 13 , wherein the adenoviral vector is replication defective. 
 
     
 15. The adenovirus packaging cell line of  claim 13 , wherein no wild-type replication-competent adenovirus is detected following 18 cycles of infection.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
