
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A method of generating an  Actinobacillus succinogenes  bacterium with improved ability to convert glycerol to succinic acid, the method comprising:
 a) combining a starter strain of  Actinobacillus succinogenes  with ability to convert glycerol to succinic acid and a medium containing an initial concentration of between 10 g/L and 60 g/L glycerol to produce a fermentation mixture; 
 b) allowing fermentation to occur such that succinic acid is produced; 
 c) assaying for an indication of glycerol metabolism; and 
 d) generating the  Actinobacillus succinogenes  bacterium with improved ability to convert glycerol to succinic acid relative to the starter strain of  Actinobacillus succinogenes    
 wherein the  Actinobacillus succinogenes  starter strain corresponds to the strain deposited as American Type Culture Collection Number 55618 (ATCC No. 55618). 
 
 
     
 2. A method according to  claim 1 , further comprising repeating steps a) and b) and/or further comprising repeating step c). 
 
     
 3. A method according to  claim 1 , comprising between 4 and 19 repetitions of steps a) and b). 
 
     
 4. A method according to  claim 1 , wherein the assay for an indication of glycerol metabolism is a cell growth assay. 
 
     
 5. A method according to  claim 1 , wherein the assay for an indication of glycerol metabolism is an assay for production of succinic acid. 
 
     
 6. A method according to  claim 1 , wherein the fermentation mixture comprises glycerol at an initial concentration of between 10 g/L and 25 g/L. 
 
     
 7. A method according to  claim 1 , wherein a final concentration of 20 g/L or more of succinic acid is produced. 
 
     
 8. A method according to  claim 1 , wherein the succinic acid is produced at a yield of 0.7 or more units of succinic acid produced per unit of glycerol. 
 
     
 9. A method of producing succinic acid from glycerol, the method comprising:
 a) mixing an  Actinobacillus succinogenes  bacterium with improved ability to convert glycerol to succinic acid produced by the method of  claim 1  and a medium comprising an initial concentration of between 10 g/L and 60 g/L glycerol to produce a fermentation mixture; and 
 b) incubating the fermentation mixture, under conditions that promote fermentation to produce succinic acid, until succinic acid is produced. 
 
 
     
 10. A method according to  claim 9 , wherein the medium comprises crude glycerol. 
 
     
 11. A method according to  claim 9 , wherein the initial concentrations of carbon, nitrogen and phosphorous within the fermentation mixture are in the region of:
 C: 2-20 g/L 
 N: 2.5-5 g/L 
 P: 0.3-0.5 g/L. 
 
 
     
 12. A method according to  claim 9 , wherein the fermentation mixture comprises between 5 g/L and 10 g/L of a yeast extract. 
 
     
 13. A method according to  claim 9 , wherein the fermentation mixture comprises glycerol at an initial concentration of between 10 g/L and 25 g/L. 
 
     
 14. A method according to  claim 9 , wherein a final concentration of 20 g/L or more of succinic acid is produced. 
 
     
 15. A method according to  claim 9 , wherein the succinic acid is produced at a yield of 0.7 or more units of succinic acid produced per unit of glycerol. 
 
     
 16. A method of producing succinic acid from glycerol, the method comprising:
 a) mixing an  Actinobacillus succinogenes  bacterium with improved ability to convert glycerol to succinic acid produced by the method of  claim 1  and a medium comprising glycerol to produce a fermentation mixture; and 
 b) incubating the fermentation mixture, under conditions that promote fermentation to produce succinic acid, until a final concentration of 20 g/L or more of succinic acid is produced wherein the  Actinobacillus succinogenes  starter strain corresponds to the strain deposited as American Type Culture Collection Number 55618 (ATCC No. 55618). 
 
 
     
 17. A method according to  claim 16 , wherein the final concentration of succinic acid is between 20 g/L-32 g/L. 
 
     
 18. A method of producing succinic acid from glycerol, the method comprising:
 a) mixing an  Actinobacillus succinogenes  bacterium with improved ability to convert glycerol to succinic acid produced by the method of  claim 1  and a medium comprising glycerol to produce a fermentation mixture; and 
 b) incubating the fermentation mixture, under conditions that promote fermentation to produce succinic acid at a yield of 0.7 or more units of succinic acid produced per unit of glycerol, 
 wherein the  Actinobacillus succinogenes  starter strain corresponds to the strain deposited as American Type Culture Collection Number 55618 (ATCC No. 55618). 
 
 
     
 19. A method according to  claim 18 , wherein the yield is between 0.7-1.2. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
