
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A recombinant microorganism of the genus  Escherichia  having an enhanced L-tryptophan productivity compared to the L-tryptophan productivity of a corresponding wild-type  Escherichia  microorganism,
 wherein the recombinant microorganism has a modification to a chromosomal tryptophan operon, wherein the modification is a deletion of part or all of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 in an expression regulatory region comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, 
 wherein the recombinant microorganism is transformed with tryptophan operon genes trpD, trpC, trpB, and trpA for increased expression of said tryptophan operon genes as compared to the corresponding wild-type  Escherichia  microorganism, and wherein the recombinant microorganism does not have increased expression of a trpE gene or increased activity of anthranilate synthase encoded by the trpE gene as compared to the corresponding wild-type  Escherichia  microorganism. 
 
 
     
 2. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein the recombinant microorganism has an additional modification to the chromosomal tryptophan operon, wherein the modification is a deletion of part or all of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 in the expression regulatory region comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
     
 3. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 2 , wherein the trpD gene encodes a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:37, the trpC gene encodes a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:38, the trpB gene encodes a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:39, and the trpA gene encodes a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:40. 
 
     
 4. The recombinant microorganism according to  claim 1 , wherein the recombinant microorganism is an  Escherichia coli  strain. 
 
     
 5. A method for producing L-tryptophan, comprising culturing the recombinant microorganism of  claim 1  under conditions suitable for the production of L-tryptophan. 
 
     
 6. The method according to  claim 5 , wherein the recombinant microorganism has a further modification to a chromosomal tryptophan operon, wherein the modification is a deletion of part or all of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 in the expression regulatory region comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 5 , wherein the recombinant microorganism is an  Escherichia coli  strain. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
