
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A method for preparing a dairy composition, which comprises: i) inoculating sterilized skim milk with  Lactobacillus rhamnosus , and incubating at 37° C. for 14-16 h, which forms as curd; ii) inoculating sterilized skim milk with the curd of step i), and incubating at 37° C. for 14-16 h, which results in curd; iii) inoculating sterilized skim milk with the curd of step ii), and incubating at 37° C. for 14-16 h, which forms curd that named as a mother starter; iv) inoculating sterilized skim milk with the mother starter, and incubating at 37° C. for 14-16 h, which forms curd as a starter culture which contains 1-3×10 9  CFU/ml bacteria; v) mixing the starter culture with a sterilized raw milk which contains at least 10 6  CFU/ml  Lactobacillus rhamnosus , and storing at a refrigerator, characterized in that the  Lactobacillus rhamnosus  is  Lactobacillus rhamnosus  CCFM1107, deposited at the General Microbiology Culture Collection Center of China Committee for Culture Collection of Microorganisms under accession number CGMCC5496. 
 
     
 2. The method according to  claim 1 , which further comprises: a) mixing the raw milk with the starter culture, incubating at 37° C. for 12-18 h which yields fermented milk after the step iv) of  claim 1 ; then b) mixing the fermented milk and the sterilized raw milk, homogenizing, vacuum-concentrating and spray-drying which yields milk powders which are optionally capsulated as milk capsules. 
 
     
 3. The method according to  claim 1 , wherein the raw milk is one or more kinds of milk selected from skim milk, fresh milk, or reconstituted milk wherein the milk is selected from cow's milk, goat's milk or mare's milk. 
 
     
 4. The method according to  claim 1 , which further comprises: c) adding 3-5% of the starter culture and 3-5% of commercial culture by volume into the sterilized raw milk after the step iv) of  claim 1 ; and chi) homogenizing, fermenting at 37° C. until the concentration of lactic acid is up 0.6-0.7%; iii) cooling and storing in a refrigerator. 
 
     
 5. The method according to  claim 4 , wherein the commercial culture contains  Lactobacillus bulgaricus  or/and  Streptococcus thermophilus.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
