
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
   
 1. An anti-c-Met/anti-EGFR bispecific antibody comprising (a) an anti-c-Met antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof and (b) an anti-EGFR antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof,
 wherein the anti-c-Met antibody or the antigen-binding fragment thereof comprises: 
 (a) a CDR-H1 comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1; (b) a CDR-H2 comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; and (c) a CDR-H3 comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3, 
 (d) a CDR-L1 comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 10, (e) a CDR-L2 comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11, and (f) a CDR-L3 comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13, SEQ ID NO: 14, SEQ ID NO: 15, SEQ ID NO: 16, or SEQ ID NO: 37. 
 
 
     
 2. The anti-c-Met/anti-EGFR bispecific antibody according to  claim 1 , wherein the antigen-binding fragment is scFv, (scFv)2, scFvFc, Fab, Fab′ or F(ab′) 2 . 
 
     
 3. The anti-c-Met/anti-EGFR bispecific antibody according to  claim 1 , wherein the anti-c-Met antibody or the antigen-binding fragment thereof comprises:
 (i) a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 62, the amino acid sequence from the 18 th  to 462 nd  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 62, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 64, the amino acid sequence from the 18 th  to 461 st  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 64, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 66, or the amino acid sequence from the 18 th  to 460 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 66; and 
 (ii) a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 68, the amino acid sequence from the 21 st  to 240 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 68, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 70, or the amino acid sequence from the 21 st  to 240 th  positions of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 70. 
 
 
     
 4. The anti-c-Met/anti-EGFR bispecific antibody according to  claim 1 , wherein the antigen-binding fragment of the anti-EGFR antibody is:
 (a) an antigen binding fragment of Cetuximab, 
 (b) an antigen binding fragment of Panitumumab, or 
 (c) an antigen binding fragment comprising a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 109 or SEQ ID NO: 113, and a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 111 or SEQ ID NO: 114. 
 
 
     
 5. The anti-c-Met/anti-EGFR bispecific antibody according to  claim 1 , comprising an anti-c-Met antibody and an antigen-binding fragment of an anti-EGFR antibody, wherein the antigen-binding fragment of the anti-EGFR antibody is coupled to the C terminus of the anti-c-Met antibody. 
 
     
 6. A method of treatment of a cancer, comprising administering the anti-c-Met/anti-EGFR bispecific antibody of  claim 1  to a patient in need thereof. 
 
     
 7. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the antigen-binding fragment is scFv, (scFv)2, scFvFc, Fab, Fab′ or F(ab′) 2  of the antibody. 
 
     
 8. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the antigen-binding fragment of the anti-EGFR antibody is
 (a) an antigen binding fragment of Cetuximab, 
 (b) an antigen binding fragment of Panitumumab, or 
 (c) an antigen binding fragment comprising a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 109 or SEQ ID NO: 113, and a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 111 or SEQ ID NO: 114. 
 
 
     
 9. The method according to  claim 6 , wherein the anti-c-Met/anti-EGFR bispecific antibody comprises an anti-c-Met antibody and an antigen-binding fragment of an anti-EGFR antibody, wherein the antigen-binding fragment of the anti-EGFR antibody is coupled to the C terminus of the anti-c-Met antibody. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
