
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A composition for biologic control of insect pathogens of plants wherein said composition is free of conventional insecticides and comprises three  Bacillus thuringiensis  variety (var.) kurstaki strains deposited with the Agricultural Research Service Culture Collection (ARS) with accession numbers NRRL B-50551, NRRL B-50552, and NRRL B-50553 or endotoxins derived from said three strains. 
 
     
 2. A composition according to  claim 1 , wherein the composition comprises crystals of endotoxins derived from said strains. 
 
     
 3. The composition according to  claim 1 , wherein the composition form is selected from the group consisting of a suspension capsule for seed treatment; a bait in any of its forms; a combo pack in any of its forms, such as concentrates, emulsifiable, concentrate, encapsulated, or miscible suspension of ultra-low volume; tablets in any of their forms, of ultralow volume; oil-in-water and water-in-oil emulsions in the form of gel, concentrate paste, or emulsifiable gel; dispersible, encapsulated, fine, soluble, emulsifiable granules; macro granules or micro granules; paste; contact, wettable or dispersible powder; a solution; and a concentrate suspension. 
 
     
 4. The composition according to  claim 1 , wherein the strains are added to the composition at concentrations between 10 2  UFC/g and 10 12  UFC/g UU of each strain. 
 
     
 5. The composition of  claim 1 , further comprising zeolite as a carrier. 
 
     
 6. A method for protecting a plant from an insect pathogen, the method comprising applying a composition according to  claim 1  to the plant, a part of the plant, soil adjacent to the plant, or an area surrounding the plant. 
 
     
 7. A method according to  claim 6 , wherein the composition is applied to a part of the plant selected from a flower, a fruit, a seed, a leaf, a stem, a root, and/or a rhizome. 
 
     
 8. A method according to  claim 6 , wherein the method protects the plant from a pathogen insect from the order Lepidoptera. 
 
     
 9. A method according to  claim 8 , wherein said pathogen insect from the order Lepidoptera is selected from the group consisting of species  Tuta absoluta, Proeulia  spp.,  Spodoptera frugiperda, Plutella xylostella, Agrotis  spp., and  Lobesia botrana.    
 
     
 10. A method for the protection of a plant from an insect pathogen, the method comprising applying a composition according to  claim 1  to the plant, a part of the plant, soil adjacent to the plant, or an area surrounding the plant, wherein the composition comprises crystals of endotoxins derived from said three strains. 
 
     
 11. A method according to  claim 10 , wherein the composition is applied to a part of the plant selected from a flower, a fruit, a seed, a leaf, a stem, a root, and/or a rhizome. 
 
     
 12. A method according to  claim 10 , wherein the strains are added to the composition at concentrations between 10 2  UFC/g and 10 12  UFC/g UU of each strain. 
 
     
 13. A method according to  claim 10  wherein the composition protects the plant from a pathogen insect from the order Lepidoptera. 
 
     
 14. A method according to  claim 13 , wherein said pathogen insect from the order Lepidoptera is selected from the group consisting of species  Tuta absoluta, Proeulia  spp.,  Spodoptera frugiperda, Plutella xylostella, Agrotis  spp., and  Lobesia botrana.    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
