
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The invention claimed is: 
   
 1. A composition comprising a bacterial strain and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier, wherein the bacterial strain is MW-DCG_HNCv18, wherein the bacterial strain is capable of arresting growth of, regressing or destroying a solid tumor of a head and neck cancer, and wherein the bacterial strain comprises a polyclonal mixture of bacterial cells. 
 
     
 2. A composition comprising a bacterial strain and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier, wherein the bacterial strain is MW-DCG_CCv17, wherein the bacterial strain is capable of arresting growth of, regressing or destroying a solid tumor of a colon cancer, and wherein the bacterial strain comprises a polyclonal mixture of bacterial cells. 
 
     
 3. A composition comprising a bacterial strain and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier, wherein the bacterial strain is MW-DCG_LCv26, wherein the bacterial strain is capable of arresting growth of, regressing or destroying a solid tumor of a non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and wherein the bacterial strain comprises a polyclonal mixture of bacterial cells. 
 
     
 4. The composition of any one of  claims 1 - 3 , wherein the bacterial strain is produced by a method comprising the steps of:
 (1) injecting a plurality of injectable clostridial spores into an animal that supports growth of a solid tumor, wherein the plurality of injectable clostridial spores generate a plurality of vegetative rods upon contacting the tumor; 
 (2) assessing one or more parameter(s) to determine rate and degree of oncolysis and toxicity of the plurality of vegetative rods of (1); 
 (3) collecting the plurality of vegetative rods from the tumor of (2); 
 (4) streaking out the plurality of vegetative rods of (3) onto a plate; 
 (5) selecting two or more single colonies from the plate of (4) 
 (6) culturing the two or more single colonies in a broth culture to produce a second or subsequent plurality of vegetative rods 
 (7) culturing the second or subsequent plurality of vegetative rods in a sporulation medium under conditions sufficient to produce a second or subsequent plurality of injectable clostridial spores; 
 (8) purifying the second or subsequent plurality of injectable clostridial spores, and 
 (9) repeating steps (1) to (8) between about 17 to about 26 times. 
 
 
     
 5. The composition of  claim 4 , wherein the animal that supports growth of a solid tumor is a mouse. 
 
     
 6. The composition of  claim 4  or  5 , wherein the solid tumor comprises a xenograft of human tumor cells. 
 
     
 7. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 6 , wherein the steps (1) to (8) are repeated from about 15 to about 30 times. 
 
     
 8. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 6 , wherein the steps (1) to (8) are repeated from about 10 to about 35 times. 
 
     
 9. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 8 , wherein the one or more parameter(s) of step (2) comprise time of spore colonization, oncolysis, pus formation and burst, tumor volume, systemic toxicity, animal survival, number of spores and/or rods isolated from the tumors after intravenous administration of spores or any combination thereof. 
 
     
 10. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 9 , wherein the bacterial strain oncolyses cells contained within the microenvironment of the tumor. 
 
     
 11. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 10 , wherein the bacterial strain oncolyses about 20% to about 90% of cells within the microenvironment of the tumor. 
 
     
 12. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 10 , wherein the bacterial strain oncolyses about 20% to about 70% of cells within the microenvironment of the tumor. 
 
     
 13. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 10 , wherein the bacterial strain oncolyses 20% to about 40% of cells within the microenvironment of the tumor. 
 
     
 14. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 10 , wherein the bacterial strain oncolyses about 20% to about 35% of cells within the microenvironment of the tumor. 
 
     
 15. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 10 , wherein the bacterial strain oncolyses about 25% to about 35% of cells within the microenvironment of the tumor. 
 
     
 16. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 15 , wherein the bacterial strain causes less toxicity than a reference clostridial strain. 
 
     
 17. The composition of any one of  claims 4 - 16 , further comprising an excipient. 
 
     
 18. A method of arresting the growth of, regressing or destroying one or more solid malignant tumors of a head and neck cancer in a subject, comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the composition of  claim 1 . 
 
     
 19. A method of arresting the growth of, regressing or destroying one or more solid malignant tumors of a colon cancer in a subject, comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the composition of  claim 2 . 
 
     
 20. A method of arresting the growth of, regressing or destroying one or more solid malignant tumors of a NSCLC in a subject, comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the composition of  claim 3 . 
 
     
 21. The method of any one of  claims 18  to  20 , wherein the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of an anti-cancer agent. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
