
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Claims 54 
 
 1. An isolated antibody, said antibody being specifically immunoreactive with a soluble human receptor to an advanced glycosylation end- product ("RAGE") polypeptide. 
 
 
 2. The isolated antibody of claim 1 , wherein said antibody is specifically immunoreactive with a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence substantially homologous to the amino acid sequence shown in Figures 1A or 1B (Seq ID NOS: 2 and 4), or immunologically active fragments thereof. 
 
 
 3. The isolated antibody of claim 2, wherein said antibody is specifically immunoreactive with a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence shown in Figure 1 B (Seq ID NO: 4). 
 
 
 4. The isolated antibody of claim 1 , wherein said antibody is monoclonal. 
 
 
 5. The isolated antibody of claim 1 , wherein said antibody is selected from the group consisting of RBF9D9 (ATCC Accession No. HB-12165), SW10C1 (ATCC Accession No. HB-12164) and SW1E8 (ATCC Accession No. HB- 12166). 
 
 
 6. The isolated antibody of claim 1 , wherein said antibody is polyclonal. 
 
 
 7. The isolated antibody of claim 1 , wherein said antibody is humanized. 
 
 
 8. The isolated antibody of claim 1 , wherein said antibody further comprises a labeling group. 
 
 
 9. The isolated antibody of claim 8, wherein said labeling group is selected from the group consisting of a fluorescent label, a radioactive label and a bioactive label.   
 
 
 10. An isolated antibody, said antibody being capable of inhibiting an interaction between an advanced glycosylation end-product ("AGE") and its receptor. 
 
 
 11. The isolated antibody of claim 10, wherein said antibody is specifically immunoreactive with a soluble human RAGE polypeptide. 
 
 
 12. The isolated antibody of claim 11 , wherein said human RAGE polypeptide is a soluble human RAGE polypeptide having an amino acid sequence shown in Figure 1A or 1 B (Seq ID NOS: 2 and 4), or immunologically active fragments thereof. 
 
 
 13. A pharmaceutical composition, comprising an antibody that is specifically immunoreactive with a soluble human RAGE polypeptide in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 
 
 14. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 3, wherein said antibody inhibits an interaction between an AGE protein and a human RAGE polypeptide. 
 
 
 15. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 13, wherein said antibody is specifically immunoreactive with a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence substantially homologous to the amino acid sequence shown in Figure 1A or 1B (Seq ID NOS: 2 and 4), or immunologically active fragments thereof. 
 
 
 16. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 13, wherein said antibody is specifically immunoreactive with a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence substantially homologous to the amino acid sequence shown in Figure 1A or 1B (Seq ID NOS: 2 and 4). 
 
 
 17. A method of treating a patient for symptoms of a disorder, wherein said symptoms are caused by an interaction between an AGE and its receptor, the method comprising administering to said patient an effective amount of an antibody that is specifically immunoreactive with a soluble human RAGE polypeptide. 
 
 
 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said patient is a diabetic patient, and said symptom is increased vascular permeability.   
 
 
 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said disorder is Diabetes Mellitus and said symptom is selected from the group consisting of diabetic microvasculopathy, diabetic macrovasculopathy and occlusive vascular disorder. 
 
 
 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said symptom is selected from the group consisting of neuropathy, nephropathy, retinopathy and atherosclerosis. 
 
 
 21. A method of detecting a human RAGE polypeptide in a sample, the method comprising the steps of: contacting the sample with an isolated antibody that is specifically immunoreactive with a soluble human RAGE polypeptide; and determining whether the antibody specifically immunoreacts with a component of the sample. 
 
 
 22. A method of purifying a human RAGE polypeptide from a mixture of proteins, the method comprising the steps of: providing an antibody that is specifically immunoreactive with a soluble human RAGE polypeptide immobilized on a solid support; contacting the solid support with the mixture of proteins under conditions permitting a specific immunoreaction between the antibody and the human RAGE polypeptide from the mixture of proteins; removing nonspecifically bound proteins from said solid support; and isolating the human RAGE polypeptide from the solid support in substantially pure form. 
 
 
 23. Use of an effective amount of an antibody that is specifically immunoreactive with a soluble human RAGE polypeptide for the production of a pharmaceutical pompound or composition for the treatment of a patient for symptoms of a disorder, wherein said symptoms are caused by an interaction between an AGE and its receptor. 
 
 
 24. Use according to claim 23, wherein said patient is a diabetic patient, and said symptom is increased vascular permeability. 
 
 
 25. Use according to claim 23, wherein said disorder is Diabetes 
 Mellitus and said symptom is selected from the group consisting of diabetic microvasculopathy, diabetic macrovasculopathy and occlusive vascular disorder.   
 
 
 26. Use according to claim 25, wherein said symptom is selected from the group consisting of neuropathy, nephropathy, retinopathy and atherosclerosis. 
 
 
 27. Use according to claim 23, wherein said symptom is hemodialysis-associated amyloidosis.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
