
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 culture deposit ATCC 20912 , together with Colletotrichum truncatum (Schw.) Andrus & Moore, in association with an inert agricultural carrier. 6. A composition for agricultural application for controlling purple nutsedge, said composition comprising a mixture of an isolate of the fungus Colletotrichum having the identifying characteristics of culture deposit ATCC 20912, together with a suitable chemical herbicide. 7. A composition, according to claim 6, wherein said chemical herbicide is selected from the group consisting of 2,4-D, atrazine, linuron, paraquat, alachlor, metolachlor, glyphosate, dichlobenil, EPTC, and bentazon. 8. A biologically pure culture of the novel isolate of Colletotrichum having the identifying characteristics of culture deposit ATCC 20912. 9. A process for controlling purple nutsedge, said process comprising the application of an agricultural composition comprising an isolate of the fungus Colletotrichum having the identifying characteristics of ATCC 20912, onto said purple nutsedge or onto the situs of said purple nutsedge. 10. A process, according to claim 9, wherein said novel fungus is in combination with an inert biological carrier. 11. A process, according to claim 9, wherein said fungus is in the spore form at a concentration of from about 1 x 10 4  spores/ml of carrier to about 1 x 10 7  spores/ml of carrier. 

 
 12. A process for controlling purple nutsedge and yellow nutsedge, said process comprising the application of an agricultural composition comprising a mixture of an isolate of the fungus Colletotrichum having the identifying characteristics of culture deposit ATCC 20912, together with the rust pathogen Puccinia canaliculata in association with an inert agricultural carrier. 13. A process for controlling purple nutsedge and sicklepod, said process comprising the application of an agricultural composition comprising a mixture of an isolate of the fungus Colletotrichum having the identifying characteristics of culture deposit ATCC 20912, together with Alternaria cassiae, in association with an inert agricultural carrier. 14. A process for controlling purple nutsedge and Florida beggarweed, said process comprising the application of an agricultural composition comprising a mixture of an isolate of the fungus Colletotrichum having the identifying characteristics of culture deposit ATCC 20912, together with Colletotrichum truncatum ( Schw. ) Andrus & Moore, in association with an inert agricultural carrier. 15. A process for controlling purple nutsedge, said process comprising the application of an agricultural composition comprising a mixture of an isolate of the fungus Colletotrichum having the identifying characteristics of culture deposit ATCC 20912, together with a suitable chemical herbicide. 16. A process, according to claim 15, wherein said chemical herbicide is selected from the group consisting of 

2,4-D, atrazine, linuron, paraquat, alachlor, metolachlor, glyphosate, dichlobenil, EPTC, and bentazon. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
