
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CLAIMS : 
 
 1. An isolated polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence that has at least 80% identity to a nucleotide sequence encoding the hBKb3 polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2 over its entire length; or a nucleotide sequence complementary to said nucleotide sequence. 
 
 
 2. The polynucleotide of claim 1 which is DNA or RNA. 
 
 
 3. A polynucleotide according to one of claims 1 and 2 wherein said nucleotide sequence is at least 80% identical to that contained in SEQ ID NO:l. 
 
 
 4. A polynucleotide according to one of claims 1 and 3 wherein said nucleotide sequence comprises the hBKb3 polypeptide encoding sequence contained in SEQ ID NO:l. 
 
 
 5. A polynucleotide according to one of claims 1 and 4 which is polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO: 1.  
 
 
 6. An isolated hBKb3 polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from teh group consisting of : 
 (a) a nucleotide sequence having at least 80% identity to a nucleotide sequence encoding the hBKb3 polypeptide expressd by the cDNA insert deposited at the ATCC with Deopisu Number 209476 ; and (b) a nucleotide sequence complementary to the nucleotide sequence of (a) . 
 
 
 7. A DNA or RNA molecule comprising an expression system, wherein said expression system is capable of producing a hBKb3 polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence, which has at least 80% identity with the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2 when said expression system is present in a compatible host cell. 
 
 
 8. A host cell comprising the expression system of claim 7. 
 
 
 9. A process for producing a hBKb3 polypeptide comprising culturing a host of claim 8 under conditions sufficient for the production of said polypeptide and recovering the polypeptide from the culture.   
 
 
 10. A process for producing a cell which produces a hBKb3 polypeptide thereof comprising transforming or transfecting a host cell with the expression system of claim 7 such that the host cell, under appropriate culture conditions, produces a hBKb3 polypeptide. 
 
 
 11. A hBKb3 polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence which is at least 80% identical to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 over its entire length. 
 
 
 12. The polypeptide of claim 11 which comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 
 
 
 13. An antibody immunospecific for the hBKb3 polypeptide of claim 11. 
 
 
 14. Use of (a) a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist of hBKb3 polypeptide of claim 11 and/or (b) a polynucleotide according to one of claims 1 to 6 in a form so as to effect production of said hBKb3 polypeptide activity in vivo, for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a subject in need of enhanced activity or expression of hBKb3 polypeptide. 
 
 
 15. Use of (a) a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist of hBKb3 polypeptide of claim 11 and/or (b) a nucleic acid- molecule that inhibits the expression of the nucleotide sequence encoding said hBKb3 polypeptide and/or (c) a therapeutically effective amount of a polypeptide that competes with said hBKb3 polypeptide, for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a subject having need to inhibit activity or expression of hBKb3 polypeptide. 
 
 
 16. A process for diagnosing a disease or a susceptibility to a disease in a subject related to expression or activity of hBKb3 polypeptide of claim 11 in a subject comprising: 
 (a) determining the presence or absence of a mutation in the nucleotide sequence encoding said hBKb3 polypeptide in the genome of said subject; and/or 
 (b) analyzing for the presence or amount of the hBKb3 polypeptide expression in a sample derived from said subject.   
 
 
 17. A method for identifying agonists to hBKb3 polypeptide of claim 11 comprising: 
 (a) contacting cells produced by claim 10 with a candidate compound; and 
 (b) determining whether the candidate compound effects a signal generated by activation of the hBKb3 polypeptide. 
 
 
 18. An agonist identified by the method of claim 17. 
 
 
 19. The method for identifying antagonists to hBKb3 polypeptide of claim 11 comprising: 
 (a) contacting said cell produced by claim 10 with an agonist; and (b) determining whether the signal generated by said agonist is diminished in the presence of a candidate compound. 
 
 
 20. An antagonist identified by the method of claim 19.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
