
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 
 
 1. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity and a leader sequence. 
 
 
 2. The molecule of claim 1, wherein said leader sequence consists essentially of the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu. 
 
 
 3. The molecule of claim 1 , wherein said leader sequence consists essentially of the amino acid sequence: NH.-Met-Lys-Ile-Ala- Val- Val-Asp-Lys-AIa-Leu- 
 Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- Leu-Tyr-Gly-GIu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His. 
 
 
 4. The molecule of claim 1, further consisting essentially of a promoter. 
 
 
 5. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (a) a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity and a leader sequence, and 
 (b) a promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that said structural gene may be expressed in a cell under control of said promoter. 
 
 
 6. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (a) a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity and a leader sequence; 

 (b) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that said structural gene may be expressed in a cell under control of said promoter; and 
 (c) an origin of replication heterologous to said structural gene. 
 
 
 7. The molecule of any one of claims 4 or 5, wherein said promoter is inducible. 
 
 
 8. The molecule of claim 7, wherein said promoter is a lac promoter. 
 
 
 9. The molecule of claim 7, wherein said promoter is a tac promoter. 
 
 
 10. The molecule of claim 7, wherein said promoter is a lambda P L  promoter. 
 
 
 11. The molecule of any one of claims 4 or 5, wherein said structural gene encodes a protein having a processive 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity. 
 
 
 12. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule comprising a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity, a substantially reduced 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity, and a leader sequence. 
 
 
 13. The molecule of claim 12, further comprising a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that said structural gene may be expressed in a cell under control of said promoter. 

 - 3n ~ 
 
 
 14. The molecule of claim 13, wherein said structural gene is heterologous to the promoter. 
 
 
 15. The molecule of any of claims 13 or 14, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 1 unit/mg protein. 
 
 
 16. The molecule of claim 15, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.1 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 17. The molecule of claim 16, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.003 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 18. The molecule of claim 17, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.0001 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 19. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of a structural gene encoding a protein having a leader sequence, wherein said protein is a functional derivative of a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 20. The molecule of claim 19, wherein said functional derivative has at least 75% homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 21. The molecule of claim 20, wherein said functional derivative has at least 90 £ homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 22. The molecule of any one of claims 4, 5, 13 or 14, wherein said structural gene encodes a protein having T5 DNA polymerase activity which polymerizes an average of at least 100 nucleotides before dissociation. 
 
 
 23. The molecule of claim 22, wherein said T5 DNA polymerase activity polymerizes an average of at least 200 nucleotides before dissociation. 

  
 
 
 24. A host cell comprising the molecule of any one of claims 4, 5, 13 or 14. 
 
 
 25. The host cell of claim 24, wherein said host cell is E. coli. 
 
 
 26. The host cell of claim 25, wherein said host cell is E. coli BH215. 
 
 
 27. A method for producing a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity and a leader sequence, said method comprising the steps of: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and 
 (ii) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 28. A method for producing a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity and a leader sequence, said method comprising the steps of: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and (ii) a promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be 

 - 2,6 - 
 expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 29. The method of claim 27, wherein said molecule of step (a) further consists essentially of: 
 (iii) an origin of replication capable of maintaining the structural gene/promoter/origin . of the replication combination in said host cell. 
 
 
 30. The method of any one of claims 27 or 28, wherein said host cell is E. coli. 
 
 
 31. The method of any one of claims 27 or 28, wherein said promoter is inducible. 
 
 
 32. The method of any one of claims 27 or 28, wherein said structural gene encodes a protein having a processive 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity. 
 
 
 33. A method of producing a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity, a substantially reduced 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity and a leader sequence, said method comprising the steps of: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and 
 (ii) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 

 - 3 - 
 (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 34. The method of claim 33, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 1 unit/mg protein. 
 
 
 35. The method of claim 34, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.1 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 36. The method of claim 35, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.003 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 37. The method of claim 36, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.0001 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 38. A method for producing a protein having a leader sequence, wherein said protein is a functional derivative of a T5 DNA polymerase protein, said method comprising the steps of: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of: (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and 
 (ii) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 39. The method of claim 38, wherein said functional derivative has at least 75 % homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 

 - 3&- 
 
 
 40. The method of claim 39, wherein said flinctional derivative has at least 90% homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 41. A mutant T5 DNA polymerase protein having a processive ^  thioredoxin-independent DNA polymerase activity, a substantially reduced 3 '- to-5' exonuclease activity, and a leader sequence. 
 
 
 42. The protein of claim 41, wherein said leader sequence comprises the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-VaI-Asp-Lys-AIa-Leu. 
 
 
 43. The protein of claim 42, wherein said leader sequence comprises the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-AIa-Leu- 
 Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- 
 Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His. 
 
 
 44. The protein of claim 41 , wherein Asp 138  of T5 DNA polymerase is deleted or substituted with a different amino acid. 
 
 
 45. The protein of claim 44, wherein Ala 138  is substituted for Asp 138  of T5 DNA polymerase. 
 
 
 46. The protein of claim 41 , wherein Glu 140  of T5 DNA polymerase is deleted or substituted with a different amino acid. 
 
 
 47. The protein of claim 46, wherein Ala 140  is substituted for Glu 140  of T5 DNA polymerase. 
 
 
 48. The protein of claim 41, wherein said protein has a 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity of about or less than 1 unit/mg protein. 

 - IS - 
 
 
 49. The protein of claim 48, wherein said protein has a 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity of about or less than 0.1 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 50. The protein of claim 49, wherein said protein has a 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity of about or less than 0.003 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 51. The protein of claim 50, wherein said protein has a 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity of about or less than 0.0001 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 52. A leader sequence comprising the amino acid sequence: NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-VaI-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu-Asn-Asn-Thr- Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln-Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp- Val-Phe-His. 
 
 
 53. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of a nucleotide sequence, wherein said nucleotide sequence encodes a leader sequence of T5 DNA polymerase. 
 
 
 54. The molecule of claim 53, wherein the amino acid sequence of said leader sequence is: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu-Asn-Asn-Thr- Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln-Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp- Val-Phe-His. 
 
 
 55. The molecule of claim 54, further consisting essentially of a promoter, wherein said promoter and said nucleotide sequence are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that said nucleotide sequence may be expressed in a cell under control of said promoter. 
 
 
 56. The molecule of claim 55, wherein said promoter is inducible. 

 10 - 
 
 
 57. A method of producing a soluble protein comprising: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding a protein having a leader sequence of T5 DNA polymerase; and 
 (ii) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that said structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter; 
 (b) expressing said protein; and 
 (c) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 58. A method of producing a soluble protein comprising: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding a protein having a leader sequence of T5 DNA polymerase, and 
 (ii) a promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (b) expressing said protein; and 
 (c) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 59. The method of claim 57, wherein the amino acid sequence of said leader sequence is: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu-Asn-Asn-Thr- Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln-Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-GIu-Val-Asp- Val-Phe-His. 

 -4 » - 
 
 
 60. The method of any one of claims 57 or 58, wherein said protein is a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 61. The method of any one of claims 57 or 58, wherein said host cell is E. coli. 
 
 
 62. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity. 
 
 
 63. The molecule of claim 62, further consisting essentially of a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that said structural gene may be expressed in a cell under control of said promoter. 
 
 
 64. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (a) a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity; and (b) a promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in a host cell under control of said promoter. 
 
 
 65. The molecule of any one of claims 63 or 64, wherein said promoter is inducible. 
 
 
 66. The molecule of claim 65, wherein said promoter is a lac promoter. 
 
 
 67. The molecule of claim 65, wherein said promoter is a tac promoter. 

  
 
 
 68. The molecule of claim 65, wherein said promoter is a lambda P L  promoter. 
 
 
 69. The molecule of any one of claims 63 or 64, wherein the structural gene encodes a protein having a processive 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity. 
 
 
 70. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule comprising a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity and a substantially reduced 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity. 
 
 
 71. The molecule of claim 70, further comprising a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in a host cell under control of aid promoter. 
 
 
 72. The molecule of claim 71, wherein said structural gene is heterologous to the promoter. 
 
 
 73. The molecule of any one of claims 71 or 72, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 1 unit/mg protein. 
 
 
 74. The molecule of claim 73, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.1 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 75. The molecule of claim 74, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.003 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 76. The molecule of claim 75, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.0001 units/mg protein. 

  
 
 
 77. An isolated recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of a structural gene encoding a protein, wherein said protein is a functional derivative of a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 78. The molecule of the claim 77, wherein said functional derivative has at least 75 % homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 79. The molecule of claim 78, wherein said functional derivative has at least 90% homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 80. The molecule of any one of claims 63, 64, 71 or 72, wherein said structural gene encodes a protein having T5 DNA polymerase activity which polymerizes an average of at least 100 nucleotides before dissociation. 
 
 
 81. The molecule of claim 80, wherein said T5 DNA polymerase activity polymerizes an average of at least 200 nucleotides before dissociation. 
 
 
 82. A host cell comprising the molecule of any one of claims 63, 64, 71 or 72. 
 
 
 83. The host cell of claim 82, wherein said host cell is E. coli. 
 
 
 84. The host cell of claim 83, wherein said host cell is E. coli BH215. 
 
 
 85. A method for producing a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity, said method comprising the steps of: (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and 

 (ii) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 86. A method for producing a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity, said method comprising the steps of: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and (ii) a promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 87. The method of claim 85, wherein said molecule of step (a) further consisting essentially of: 
 (iii) an origin of replication capable of maintaining the structural gene/promoter/origin of the replication combination in said host cell. 
 
 
 88. The method of any one of claims 85 or 86, wherein said host cell is E. coli. 
 
 
 89. The method of any one of claims 85 or 86, wherein said promoter is inducible. 

  
 
 
 90. The method of any one of claims 85 or 86, wherein said structural gene encodes a protein having a processive 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity. 
 
 
 91. A method of producing a protein, wherein said protein has a T5 DNA polymerase activity and a substantially reduced 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity, said method comprising the steps of: 
 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule comprising: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and (ii) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 92. The method of claim 91, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 1 unit/mg protein. 
 
 
 93. The method of claim 92, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.1 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 94. The method of claim 93, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.003 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 95. The method of claim 94, wherein said exonuclease activity is about or less than 0.0001 units/mg protein. 
 
 
 96. A method of producing a protein, wherein said protein is a functional derivative of T5 DNA polymerase, said method comprising the steps of: 

 (a) culturing a host cell containing a recombinant DNA molecule, the recombinant DNA molecule consisting essentially of: 
 (i) a structural gene encoding said protein, and (ii) a promoter, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said host cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (b) isolating said protein from said host cell. 
 
 
 97. The method of claim 96, wherein said functional derivative has at least 75 % homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 
 
 
 98. The method of claim 97, wherein said functional derivative has at least 90% homology with a T5 DNA polymerase protein. 

 
 4 / 
 AMENDED CLAIMS 
 [received by the International Bureau on 27 May 1993 (27 05 93 ) - or i ginal claims 1-98 replaced by amended claims 1-33 ( 7 pages ) ]' 
 1. In a method for producing a protein comprising the steps of: a) culturing a transformed cell containing a heterologous 
 DNA molecule; and b) isolating said protein from said host cell, the improvement which comprises using as the heterologous DNA molecule one comprising: 
 (1) a structural gene encoding a protein having a T5 DNA polymerase activity, a substantially reduced 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity, and a leader sequence comprising the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu, and 
 (2) a promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said cell under control of said promoter. 
 2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the transformed cell is aE. coli cell. 
 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the heterologous DNA molecule further comprises: 
 (3) an origin of replication capable of maintaining the structural gene/promoter/origin of the replication combination in said E. coli cell. 
 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the leader sequence consists essentially of the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu- Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- 

 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the leader sequence consists essentially of the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-VaI-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu- Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His. 
 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the promoter is inducible. 
 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the promoter is a lac promoter. 
 8. The method of claim 6 , wherei n the promoter is a tac promoter. 
 
 
 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the promoter is a lambda P L  promoter. 
 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the exonuclease activity is about or less than 1 unit/mg protein. 
 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.1 unit/mg protein. 
 12. The method of claim 11 , wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.003 unit mg protein. 
 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.0001 unit/mg protein. 
 14. In a method for producing a protein comprising the steps of: a) culturing a transformed cell containing a heterologous 
 DNA molecule and b) isolating said protein from said host cell, 

the improvement which comprises using as the heterologous DNA molecule one comprising: 
 (1) a structural gene encoding a protein having a T5 DNA polymerase activity, an exonuclease activity of about or less than 1 unit/mg protein, and a leader sequence consisting essentially of the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu- Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His; (2) an inducible promoter selected from the group consisting of a lac promoter, a tac promoter, and a lambda P L  promoter which is heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said inducible promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said cell under control of said promoter; and 
 (3) an origin of replication capable of maintaining the structural gene/promoter/origin of the replication combination in said cell. 
 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the transformed cell is an E. coli cell. 
 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.1 unit/mg protein. 
 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.003 unit/mg protein. 
 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.0001 unit/mg protein. 

 19. In a method for producing a soluble protein comprising the steps of: a) culturing a transformed cell containing a heterologous DNA molecule, b) expressing the protein, and c) isolating said protein from said host cell, the improvement which comprises using as the heterologous DNA molecule one comprising: 
 (1) a structural gene encoding a soluble protein having a leader sequence comprising the amino acid sequence: 
 NH -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-AIa-Leu; 
 and 
 (2) a promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said cell under control of said promoter. 
 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the transformed cell is an E. coli cell. 
 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the heterologous DNA molecule further comprises: 
 (3) an origin of replication capable of maintaining the structural gene/promoter/origin of the replication combination in said E. coli cell. 
 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the leader sequence consists essentially of the amino acid sequence: 

 c 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu- 
 Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- 
 Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His. 
 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the leader sequence consists essentially of the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu- 
 Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- 
 Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His. 
 24. The method of claim 19, wherein the promoter is inducible. 
 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the promoter is a lac promoter. 
 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the promoter is a tac promoter. 
 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the promoter is a lambda P promoter. 
 28. In a method for producing a soluble protein comprising the steps of: a) culturing a transformed cell containing a heterologous DNA molecule; b) expressing the protein; and c) isolating said protein from said host cell, the improvement which comprises using as the heterologous DNA molecule one comprising: 

 (1) a structural gene encoding a soluble T5 DNA polymerase having a leader sequence consisting essentially of the amino acid sequence: 
 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-AIa-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu- Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- 
 Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His; 
 (2) an inducible promoter selected from the group consisting of a lac promoter, a tac promoter, and a lambda P L  promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said inducible promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said cell under control of said promoter, and 
 (3) an origin of replication capableof maintaining the structural gene/promoter/origin of the replication combination in said cell. 
 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the transformed cell is an 
 E. coli cell. 
 30. In a method for producing a soluble protein comprising the steps of: a) culturing a transformed E. coli cell containing a heterologous DNA molecule; b) expressing the protein; and c) isolating said protein from said host cell, the improvement which comprises using as the heterologous DNA molecule one comprising: (1) a structural gene encoding a protein having a T5 
 DNA polymerase activity, an exonuclease activity of about or less than 1 unit mg protein, and a leader sequence consisting essentially of the amino acid sequence: 

 NH 2 -Met-Lys-Ile-Ala-Val-Val-Asp-Lys-Ala-Leu- Asn-Asn-Thr-Arg-Tyr-Asp-Lys-His-Phe-Gln- Leu-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-Asp-Val-Phe-His; (2) an inducible promoter selected from the group consisting of a 'ac promoter, a tac promoter, and a lambda P L  promoter heterologous to said structural gene, wherein said inducible promoter and said structural gene are in such position and orientation with respect to each other that the structural gene may be expressed in said E. coli cell under control of said promoter; and (3) an origin of replication capable of maintaining the structural gene/promoter/origin of the replication combination in said E. coli cell. 
 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.1 unit/mg protein. 
 32. The method of claim 31 , wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.003 unit/mg protein. 
 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the exonuclease activity is less than 0.0001 unit/mg protein. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
