
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We claim:  
 
 1. An isolated and purified DNA molecule consisting essentially of the DNA sequence of Sequence ID No. 1.  
 
 
 2. An isolated and purified DNA molecule according to claim 1, wherein the DNA molecule encodes the production of a 255 amino acid polypeptide, comprising a 32 amino acid leader sequence from M-CSF and a 223 amino acid polypeptide having M-CSF activity, said polypeptide lacking the carboxy-terminal propeptide sequence present in wild-type recombinant M-CSF polypeptide before intracellular processing when produced by mammalian cells.  
 
 
 3. An isolated and purified DNA molecule comprising the plasmid pMemcMAT.  
 
 
 4. An isolated and purified DNA molecule consisting essentially of a DNA sequence encoding the polypeptide comprised of the amino acid sequence of Sequence ID No. 2.   
 
 
 5. An isolated and purified DNA molecule according to claim 4, wherein the DNA molecule encodes the production of a 255 amino acid polypeptide, comprising a 32 amino acid leader sequence from M-CSF and a 223 amino acid polypeptide having M-CSF activity, said polypeptide lacking the carboxy-terminal propeptide sequence present in wild-type recombinant M-CSF polypeptide before intracellular processing when produced by mammalian cells.  
 
 
 6. A method of producing MCSF-223 protein comprising:  
  a) culturing in a suitable culture medium cells transformed with a DNA molecule according to claim 1; and  
  b) isolating and purifying said protein from said culture medium.  
 
 
 7. A method of producing MCSF-223 protein comprising:  
  a) culturing in a suitable culture medium cells transformed with the DNA molecule according to claim 3;  
  b) isolating and purifying said protein from said culture medium.  
 
 
 8. A mammalian cell line capable of producing MCSF-223 protein, said mammalian cell line comprising a DNA sequence according to claim 1.   
 
 
 9. A mammalian cell line capable of producing MCSF-223 protein, said mammalian cell line comprising a DNA sequαice according to claim 2.  
 
 
 10. A method of purifying MCSF-223 protein comprising the following steps in sequαice:  
  a) ultrafiltration/diafiltration;  
  b) QAE- Sephrose chromatography;  
  c) ceramic hydroxyapatite chromatography;  
  d) Phenyl-Toyoperl chromatography; and  
  e) diafiltration.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
