
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. A strain of Streptococcus salivarius that encodes for the bacteriocin, subtilosin.  
 
 
 2. The S. salivarius strain of claim 1, which additionally encodes for a thiazolyl peptide and/or a bacteriocin-like peptide (blp) bacteriocin.  
 
 
 3. The S. salivarius strain of claim 1, which exhibits the following properties: i) inhibits oral pathogens; ii) outcompetes S. mutans ; iii) is able to colonize human cell surfaces; iv) is susceptible to antibiotics; and/or v) is a non-producer of biogenic amines.  
 
 
 4. The S. salivarius strain of claim 1, which inhibits the following oral pathogens: Po. gingivalis, Ta. forsythia, Pr. shahii , F. nucleatum, L. wadei, and Pe. Stomatis.  
 
 
 5. The S. salivarius strain of claim 1, which exhibits a cell-surface hydrophobicity of at least about 85%.  
 
 
 6. The S. salivarius strain of claim 1, comprising the bacteriocin locus of SEQ ID NO: 19.  
 
 
 7. The strain of claim 1, comprising the following genome sequences: i) chromosomal sequence of GenBank accession no. CP054153; ii) megaplasmid sequence of GenBank accession no. CP054154; iii) episome sequence of GenBank accession no. CP054155; and iv) plasmid sequence of GenBank accession no. CP054156.  
 
 
 8. The S. salivarius strain of claim 1, which exhibits protease-resistant anti-microbial activity. 
 
 
 9. The S. salivarius strain of claim 8, wherein the anti-microbial activity is resistant to at least one of pronase, subtilisin, or Proteinase K.  
 
 
 10. A method of treating or preventing disease in a mammal comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of an S. salivarius strain as defined in claim 1 to the mammal.  
 
 
 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the S. salivarius strain is combined with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for oral administration. 

 
 
 
 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the S. salivarius strain is administered in an amount of 500 million to 20 billion CFUs per day.  
 
 
 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the S. salivarius strain is combined with one or more probiotics.  
 
 
 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the S. salivarius strain is administered to the oral cavity.  
 
 
 15. The method of claim 10, comprising the additional step of maintaining the S. salivarius strain in the oral cavity for a period of time prior to ingesting or expectorating.  
 
 
 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the disease is an oral disease selected from the group consisting of dental caries, periodontal disease, gingivitis, halitosis and dysbiosis  
 
 
 17. A composition comprising an S. salivarius strain as defined in claim 1 combined with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.  
 
 
 18. A composition comprising an S. salivarius strain as defined in claim 1 combined with one or more probiotics.  
 
 
 19. A composition comprising an S. salivarius strain as defined in claim 1 combined with a food or beverage.  
 
 
 20. A composition comprising an S. salivarius strain as defined in claim 1 formulated for oral administration.  
 
 
 21. The composition of claim 18, wherein the composition is a rinse, paste, gel or lozenge.  
 
 
 22. A Streptococcus salivarius strain which is deposited at The International Depository Authority of Canada (ID AC) under accession no. 160720-1.  
 
 
 23. A Streptococcus salivarius strain which exhibits anti -microbial activity that is protease-resistant.  
 
 
 24. The S. salivarius strain of claim 23, wherein the anti-microbial activity is resistant to at least one of pronase, subtilisin, or Proteinase K.  
 
 
 25. The S. salivarius strain of claim 23, which exhibits the following properties: i) inhibits oral pathogens; ii) outcompetes S. mutans ; iii) is able to colonize human cell surfaces; iv) is susceptible to antibiotics; and/or v) is a non-producer of biogenic amines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
