
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CLAIMS WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 
 
 1. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising the alpha-subunit of a nitrile hydratase enzyme, said polypeptide having the amino acid sequence as represented in SEQ ID NO:4. 
 
 
 2. An isolated polynucleotide encod ing a polypeptide having at least 98 % identity to a polypeptide alpha-subunit of the nitrile hydratase enzyme from Comamonas testosteroni 5-MGAM-4D as represented by SEQ ID NO:4. 
 
 
 3. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising the alpha-subunit of a nitrile hydratase enzyme, said isolated polynucleotide having the nucleic acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO:3. 
 
 
 4. A polypeptide having the amino acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO:4. 
 
 
 5. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising the beta-subunit of a nitrile hydratase enzyme, said polypeptide having the amino acid sequence as represented in SEQ ID NO:6. 
 
 
 6. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising the beta-subunit of a nitrile hydratase enzyme, said isolated polynucleotide having the nucleic acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO:5. 
 
 
 7. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having at least 95 % identity to a polypeptide as represented by SEQ ID NO:6, wherein the polypeptide is the beta-subunit of the nitrile hydratase enzyme from Comamonas testosteroni 5-MGAM-4D. 
 
 
 8. A polypeptide having the amino acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO:6. 
 
 
 9. An isolated polynucleotide encoding the alpha- and beta- subunits of a nitrile hydratase enzyme, said isolated polynucleotide having the nucleic acid sequence as represented in SEQ ID NO:7. 
 
 
 10. An isolated polynucleotide encoding the alpha- and beta- subunits of a nitrile hydratase enzyme and an accessory protein, said  isolated polynucleotide having the nucleic acid sequence as represented in SEQ ID NO:11. 
 
 
 11. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising an amidase, said polypeptide having the amino acid sequence as represented in SEQ ID NO: 1 7. 
 
 
 12. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having amidase activity and having at least 95 % identity to the polypeptide from Comamonas testosteroni 5-MGAM-4D represented by SEQ ID NO:17. 
 
 
 13. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising an amidase enzyme, said isolated polynucleotide having the nucleic acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO: 16. 
 
 
 14. A polypeptide having the amino acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO:17. 
 
 
 15. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising an accessory protein, said polypeptide having the amino acid sequence as represented in SEQ ID N 0: 14. 
 
 
 16. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising an accessory protein, said isolated polynucleotide having the nucleic acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO: 13. 
 
 
 17. A polypeptide having the amino acid sequence represented in SEQ ID NO:14. 
 
 
 18. An isolated polynucleotide encoding the alpha- and beta- subunits of a nitrile hydratase enzyme, an accessory protein, and an amidase, said alpha- and beta-subunits of a nitrile hydratase enzyme, the accessory protein, and the amidase encoded by the nucleic acid sequence as represented in SEQ D NO:23. 
 
 
 19. An expression vector comprising any one of the nucleic acid sequences of Claims 1-3, 5-7, 9-13,15-16, or 18. 
 
 
 20. The expression vector as contained in E. coli SW132 designated ATCC PTA-5073. 
 
 
 21. The expression vector as contained in E. coli SW137 designated ATCC PTA-5074 
 
 
 22. A transformed microbial host cell comprising the expression vector of Claim 19.   
 
 
 23. A transformed microbial host cell comprising the expression vector of Claims 20 or 21. 
 
 
 24. The transformed microbial host cell of Claim 23 wherein the microbial host cell is a bacterium, yeast, or filamentous fungi. 
 
 
 25. The transformed microbial host cell of Claim 24 wherein the microbial host cell is a) a bacterium selected from the group consisting of the genera Escherichia, Pseudomonas, Rhodococcus, Acinectobacter, Bacillus, Methylomonas, and Streptomyces; b) a yeast selected from the group consisting of the genera Pichia, Hansenula, and Saccharomyces; or c) a filamentous fungi selected from the group consisting of the genera Aspergillus, Neurospora, and Penicillium. 
 
 
 26. The transformed microbial host cell of Claim 25 wherein the microbial host cell is Escherichia coli. 
 
 
 27. A purified transformed microbial host cell selected from the group consisting of Escherichia co// SW132 designated ATCC PTA-5073 and a purified microbial host cell Escherichia co// SW137 designated ATCC PTA-5074. 
 
 
 28. A method for producing polypeptides comprising a) culturing, under suitable conditions, a transformed microbial host cell containing the expression vector of Claim 19; and b) recovering the polypeptides produced in step a). 
 
 
 29. A method for converting a substrate containing one or more nitrile functional groups to an amide, the method comprising: a) contacting, under suitable reaction conditions, a transformed microbial host cell expressing a nitrile hydratase polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:11 with a substrate containing one or more nitrile functional groups; and b) recovering the amide produced in step (a). 
 
 
 30. The method of Claim 29 wherein the substrate comprises at least one nitrile functional group and is a nitrile of  Formula 1 R-C≡N or Formula 2 N≡C-R-C≡N wherein N is Nitrogen, C is Carbon, and R is: a) Ci-C 9  alkyl, linear, branched, or cyclic, optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, a halogen atom, or an oxo group; b) C 1 -C 9  alkenyl, linear, branched, or cyclic, optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, a halogen atom, or an oxo group; or c) C 1 -C 9  aryl, optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, or a halogen atom. 
 
 
 31. The method of Claim 30 wherein the nitrile is 2-hydroxynitrile, 3-hydroxynitrile, or 4-hydroxynitrile. 
 
 
 32. The method of Claim 30 wherein the R of Formula 2 is CrC 4  alkyl, linear, or branched. 
 
 
 33. The method of Claim 32 wherein the nitrile is selected from the group consisting of malononitrile, adiponitrile, g lutaronitrile, and 2- methylglutaronitrile. 
 
 
 34. The method of Claim 30 wherein the R of Formula 1 is C 1 -C 4  alkenyl, linear, or branched. 
 
 
 35. The method of Claim 34 wherein the nitrile is acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile. 
 
 
 36. A method for hydrating methacrylonitrile to methacrylamide comprising a) contacting methacrylonitrile, under suitable reaction conditions, with a catalyst having nitrile hydratase activity from Comamonas testosteroni 5-MGAM-4D. 
 
 
 37. The method of Claim 36, further com prising b) recovering the methacrylamide produced in step a). 
 
 
 38. A method of hydrating acrylonitrile to acrylamide comprising a) contacting acrylonitrile, under suitable reaction conditions, with a catalyst having nitrile hydratase activity from Comamonas testosteroni 5-MGAM-4D. 
 
 
 39. The method of Claim 38, further com prising b) recovering the acrylamide formed in step a).   
 
 
 40. The method of Claims 29, 36, or 38, wherein the catalyst is in the form of whole cells, permeabilized microbial cells, one or more components of a microbial cell extract, partially purified enzyme, or purified enzyme. 
 
 
 41. The method of Claim 40, wherein the catalyst is immobilized on or in a soluble or insoluble support. 
 
 
 42. The method of Claim 41 , wherein the catalyst is immobilized in alginate or carrageenan.  [   
 
 
 43. The method of Claim 29 wherein the substrate comprises at least one nitrile functional group and is a nitrile of: 
 Formula 3 R -C≡N wherein N is Nitrogen, C is Carbon, and R 2  is selected from the group consisting of the general formulae 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8: 
    Formula 4 Formula 5 
    Formula 6 Formula 7 
    Formula 8 
 wherein in Formulae 4, 5, and 6 X is N, wherein in Formula 7 X is NH, O or S 1  and wherein in Formula 8 X is NH and Y is N, O, or S, and where R 3  and R 4  are independently selected from the group comprised of a) a hydrogen atom, b) a halogen atom, c) a C 1 -C 9  alkyl group that is linear, branched or cyclic and optionally substituted with a  hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, a halogen atom, or an oxo group, d) a C 1 -C 9  alkenyl group that is linear, branched, or cyclic and optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, a halogen atom, or an oxo group, and e) a Cβ-Cg aryl group, optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group A  or a halogen atom. 
 
 
 44. The method of Claim 43 wherein the nitrile is 3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine, pyrazinecarbonitrile, 2-furancarbonitrile, 2- thiophenecarbonitrile, or 4-thiazolecarbonitrile. 
 
 
 45. The method of Claim 43 wherein R 3  and R 4  are independently of a hydrogen atom. 
 
 
 46. The method of Claim 43 wherein R 3  and R 4  are independently of a halogen atom. 
 
 
 47. The method of Claim 43 wherein R 3  and R 4  are independently of a C 1 -C 9  alkyl group that is linear, branched, or cyclic and optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, a halogen atom, or an oxo group. 
 
 
 48. The method of Claim 43 wherein R 3  and R 4  are independently of a C- 1 -C 9  alkenyl group that is linear, branched, or cyclic and optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, a halogen atom, or an oxo g roup. 
 
 
 49. The method of Claim 43 wherein R 3  and R 4  are independently of a Cβ-Cg aryl group, optionally substituted with a hydroxyl group, an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, a carboxamide group, or a halogen atom. 
 
 
 50. A method for hydrating 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide comprising a) contacting 3-cyanopyridine, under suitable reaction conditions, with a catalyst having nitrile hydratase activity from Comamonas testosteroni 5-MGAM-4D. 
 
 
 51. The method of Claim 50, further comprising b) recovering the nicotinamide produced in step a).   
 
 
 52. A method of hydrating pyrazinecarbonitrile to pyrazinecarboxamide comprising a) contacting pyrazinecarbonitrile, under suitable reaction conditions, with a catalyst having nitrile hydratase activity from Comamonas testosteroni 5-MGAM-4D. 
 
 
 53. The method of Claim 52, further comprisi ng b) recovering the pyrazinecarboxamide formed in step a). 
 
 
 54. The method of Claims 43, 50, or 52, wherein the catalyst is in the form of whole cells, permeabilized microbial cells, one or more components of a microbial cell extract, partially purified enzyme, or purified enzyme. 
 
 
 55. The method of Claims 43, 50, or 52 wherein the catalyst is immobilized on or in a soluble or insoluble support. 
 
 
 56. The method of Claims 43, 50, or 52 wherein the catalyst is immobilized in alginate or carrageenan.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
