
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Claims: 
 
 1. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is endogenously expressed in wheat anthers, and encodes a peptide having fatty acyl Co-A reductase (FAR) activity. 
 
 
 2. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) a TAA 1 gene, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and 
 (b) a nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide having at least 50% identity to a peptide encoded by a TAAl gene, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; 
 said nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. 
 
 
 3. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 2, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 1 , 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and 
 (b) a nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide having at least 50% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof;  said nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. 
 
 
 4. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 2, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 1 , 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and (b) a nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide having at least 70% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; 
 said nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. 
 
 
 5. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 2, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 1 , 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and 
 (b) a nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide having at least 90% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof;  said nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. 
 
 
 6. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 2, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 1 , 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and (b) a nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide having at least 95% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; 
 said nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. 
 
 
 7. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 2, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO:l, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and 
 (b) a nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide having at least 99% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof;  said nucleotide sequence encoding a protein or a part thereof, that alters lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant exogenously expressing said nucleotide sequence. 
 
 
 8. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 3, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof; and (b) a nucleotide sequence that can hybridize to SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5 under stringent hybridization conditions. 
 
 
 9. An expression cassette, characterized in that the expression cassette comprises the nucleotide sequence according to claim 2, operably linked to a promoter. 
 
 
 10. The expression cassette according to claim 9, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is oriented in an antisense direction, or in both a sense and an antisense direction to produce double stranded RNA, relative relative to said promoter. 
 
 
 11. A construct, characterized in that the construct comprises the nucleotide sequence according to claim 2. 
 
 
 12. The construct according to claim 11, characterized in that the construct includes a promoter, said nucleotide sequence operatively linked to said promoter.   
 
 
 13. A transgenic plant, characterized in that the transgenic plant comprises the construct according to claim 12, said nucleotide sequence expressed from said promoter thereby altering a lipid metabolism of said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 14. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said plant comprises an increased concentration of fatty alcohols per weight of plant material relative to an unmodified plant. 
 
 
 15. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said plant comprises a decreased concentration of fatty alcohols per weight of plant material relative to an unmodified plant. 
 
 
 16. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that the transgenic plant comprises pollen grains or seeds having an altered fatty alcohol content relative to pollen grains or seeds of an unmodified plant. 
 
 
 17. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said plant is a species of a woody plant, a non- woody plant, or a grass. 
 
 
 18. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said plant is selected from the group consisting of crucifer crops, tobacco, wheat, corn, sugar cane, apple, tomato, and berries. 
 
 
 19. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said construct comprises an organ-specific promoter to direct organ-specific expression of said nucleotide sequence in said transgenic plant.   
 
 
 20. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said transgenic plant exhibits modified characteristics compared to an unmodified plant, said modified characteristics selected from the group consisting of: 
 increased pest resistance; male sterility; reduced height; reduced internode spacing; increased resistance to wind damage; reduced growth rate; altered cross-pollination specification; increased fruit or nut aesthetic appeal; increased fruit or nut shelf-life; delayed vegetative development; and delayed propagative development. 
 
 
 21. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said nucleotide sequence is oriented for antisense expression from said construct, said transgenic plant exhibiting reduced levels of fatty acyl Co-A reductase compared to an unmodified plant. 
 
 
 22. A plant extract, characterized in that said plant extract is derived from a transgenic plant according to any one of claims 13 to 21 for use in the production of a nutritional, cosmetic or pharmaceutical agent. 
 
 
 23. An isolated and purified nucleotide sequence, characterized in that the nucleotide sequence is selected from: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 7, 8, or 9 or a complement thereof; and  (b) a nucleotide sequence that can hybridize to SEQ ID NO: 7, 8, or 9 or a complement thereof under stringent hybridization conditions. 
 
 
 24. The isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 23, characterized in that said nucleotide sequence is for use as a hybridization probe, PCR primer or DNA sequencing primer. 
 
 
 25. A promoter sequence, characterized in that said promoter sequence regulates gene expression of anthers and is isolated from a genomic DNA library by chromosome walking, using as a probe the isolated and purified nucleotide sequence according to claim 24. 
 
 
 26. A promoter sequence, characterized in that said promoter sequence comprises a region of about 1.6kb upstream from a start codon of SEQ ID NO: 8. 
 
 
 27. A construct, characterized in that said construct comprises a promoter sequence according to any one of claims 23 to 26, operably linked to a nucleotide sequence-having an open reading frame, -or a part thereof, or a complement thereof. 
 
 
 28. A transgenic plant, characterized in that said transgenic plant is transformed with a construct according to claim 27, said promoter inducing expression of said open-reading frame, or a part thereof, or a complement thereof, in at least one anther of said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 29. The transgenic plant according to claim 28, characterized in that said open-reading frame encodes an anther or pollen inactivating gene, and expression of said open-reading frame induces male sterility of said transgenic plant.   
 
 
 30. The transgenic plant according to claim 28, characterized in that said open-reading frame encodes a transposase, and expression of said open-reading frame induces an increased rate of genomic DNA rearrangement in anther or pollen cells of said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 31. The transgenic plant according to claim 28, characterized in that said open-reading frame encodes a peptide suitable for use as a nutritional or pharmaceutical agent, said peptide expressed in anthers or pollen of said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 32. The transgenic plant according to claim 28, characterized in that said open-reading frame encodes a peptide required for the production of a nutritional or pharmaceutical agent. 
 
 
 33. The transgenic plant according to claim 28, characterized in that said open-reading frame encodes a protein that inhibits the production and / or accumulation of an unwanted substance selected from the group consisting of a -toxin, and an allergen. 
 
 
 34. The transgenic plant according to claim 28, characterized in that said open-reading frame encodes a peptide for altering a cross-pollination specification of said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 35. The transgenic plant according to claim 28, characterized in that said open reading frame is oriented for antisense expression within said construct, thereby inducing antisense repression of an endogenous gene expression within anthers or pollen of said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 36. The transgenic plant according to claim 32, characterized in that said nutritional agent is Octacosanol.   
 
 
 37. A plant extract, characterized in that the plant extract is derived from a transgenic plant according to any one of claims 28 to 36. 
 
 
 38. The transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that the plant comprises fruit, and the plant exhibits increased levels of fatty alcohols in said fruit to preserve and / or provide an enhanced appearance of said fruit. 
 
 
 39. Use for Octacosanol derived from the transgenic plant according to claim 36, characterized in that said Octacosanol is for use as a nutritional supplement. 
 
 
 40. Use for fatty alcohols derived from the transgenic plant according to claim 13, characterized in that said use is selected from: 
 use as a wax; use as a cleaning agent; use as a cosmetic agent; use- as a dermatological agent; use as a pharmaceutical agent; use as a nutritional agent; and use as a coating agent. 
 
 
 41. An isolated and purified peptide, characterized in that said isolated and purified peptide is selected from the group consisting of: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; and (b) a peptide having at least 50% identity to a peptide encoded by a 
 SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof;  said peptide or a part thereof altering lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant when generated by exogenous gene expression in said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 42. An isolated and purified peptide according to claim 41 , characterized in that said isolated and purified peptide is selected from the group consisting of: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; and 
 (b) a peptide having at least 70% identity to a peptide encoded by a 
 SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; 
 said peptide or a part thereof altering lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant when generated by exogenous gene expression in said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 43. An isolated and purified peptide according to claim 41, characterized in that said isolated and purified peptide is selected from the group consisting of: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; and (b) a peptide having at least 90% identity to a peptide encoded by a 
 SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; 
 said peptide or a part thereof altering lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant when generated by exogenous gene expression in said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 44. An isolated and purified peptide according to claim 41 , characterized in that said isolated and purified peptide is selected from the group consisting of: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; and 
 (b) a peptide having at least 95% identity to a peptide encoded by a 
 SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof;  said peptide or a part thereof altering lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant when generated by exogenous gene expression in said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 45. An isolated and purified peptide according to claim 41 , characterized in that said isolated and purified peptide is selected from the group consisting of: 
 (a) SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; and (b) a peptide having at least 99% identity to a peptide encoded by a SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 6, or a part thereof; 
 said peptide or a part thereof altering lipid metabolism in a transgenic plant when generated by exogenous gene expression in said transgenic plant. 
 
 
 46. A pharmaceutical composition, characterized in that the pharmaceutical composition comprises a fatty alcohol derived from the transgenic plant according to any one of claims 13 to 21 and 28 to 37, together with an excipient or carrier. 
 
 
 47. A pharmaceutical composition, characterized in that the pharmaceutical composition comprises the plant extract according to claim 22 or claim 37, together with an excipient or carrier. 
 
 
 48. A nutritional composition, characterized in that the nutritional composition comprises a fatty alcohol derived from the transgenic plant according to any one of claims 13 to 21 and 28 to 37 together with an excipient or carrier.   
 
 
 49. A nutritional composition, characterized in that the nutritional composition comprises the plant extract according to claim 22 or claim 37 together with an excipient or carrier. 
 
 
 50. A method of treating or preventing a medical condition, characterized in that the method comprises administration a pharmaceutical composition according to claim 46 or claim 47. 
 
 
 51. A method of providing a dietary supplement, characterized in that the method comprises administration of a nutritional composition according to claim 48 or claim 49. 
 
 
 52. A method for the production and isolation of fatty alcohols, characterized in that the method comprises the steps of: transforming an organism with a construct according to claim 11 ; growing or propagating said organism containing said construct; and extracting said fatty alcohols from said organism. 
 
 
 53. A method according to claim 52, characterized in that said organism is an E. co // bacterium. 
 
 
 54. A method according to claim 52, characterized in that said organism is a plant, or a plant embryo. 
 
 
 55. A method according to claim 52, characterized in that said organism is a tobacco plant, or a tobacco plant embryo. 
 
 
 56. Isolated and purified fatty alcohols, characterized in that said fatty alcohols are obtained by a method according to any one of claims 52 to 54.   
 
 
 57. A method of inducing dwarfism in a plant, characterized in that the method comprises the steps of: transforming a plant cell, plant embryo or plant with a construct according to claim 11; growing or propagating said plant cell, plant embryo, or plant, thereby generating a plant expressing a DNA sequence encoded by said construct, said plant having a reduced size compared to an unmodified plant. 
 
 
 58. A plant characterized in that the plant is generated by the method according to claim 57. 
 
 
 59. The plant according to claim 58, characterized in that said plant exhibits an increased resistance to wind damage compared to an unmodified plant.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
