
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is:
1. A method for preparing a protein of interest surface-displayed on genetic carrier, which comprises the steps of:  (a) transforming a host cell harboring the genetic carrier selected from the group consisting of spore and virus with a vector containing a gene encoding the protein of interest;  (b) culturing the transformed host cell and expressing the protein of interest in the host cell; and  (c) allowing to form noncovalent bond between the expressed protein and a surface of the genetic carrier so that the protein of interest is displayed on the surface of the genetic carrier.


 
 2. A method for improving a protein of interest, which comprises the steps of:  (a) constructing a gene library of the protein of interest by means of mutating the gene encoding the protein of interest;  (b) preparing a vector library containing the constructed gene library;  (c) transforming a host cell harboring a genetic carrier selected from the group consisting of spore and virus with the vector library;  (d) culturing the transformed host cell and expressing the variants of the protein of interest in the host cell;
 
   (e) obtaining a genetic carrier library by means of allowing to form noncovalent bond between the expressed protein variant and a surface of the genetic carrier so that the variant is displayed on the surface of the genetic carrier; and  (f) screening the genetic carrier displaying on its surface the variant of the protein of interest having a desired property.


 
 3. A method for isolating a substance of interest in mixture, which comprises the steps of:  (a) constructing a gene library encoding a variant of binding protein or binding domain thereof by means of mutating the gene encoding the binding protein or binding domain as protein of interest;  (b) preparing a vector library containing the constructed gene library;  (c) transforming a host cell harboring a genetic carrier selected from the group consisting of spore and virus with the vector library;  (d) culturing the transformed host cell and expressing the variants of the binding protein or binding domain in the host cell;
 
   (e) obtaining a genetic carrier library by means of allowing to form noncovalent bond between the expressed binding protein variant or binding domain variant and a surface of the genetic carrier so that the variant is displayed on the surface of the genetic carrier;  (f) contacting the genetic carrier library with a predetermined substance and screening an improved binding protein or binding domain thereof by means of selecting the genetic carrier displaying on its surface the variant binding the predetermined substance;  (g) contacting the genetic carrier displaying on its surface the improved binding protein or binding domain thereof with the mixture to isolate the substance of interest in mixture.


 
 4. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the protein of interest is selected from the group consisting of hormone, hormone analogue, enzyme, enzyme inhibitor, signal transduction protein or fragment thereof, antibody or fragment thereof, single chain antibody, binding protein or fragment thereof, peptide, antigen, adhesive protein, structural protein, regulatory protein, toxin protein, cytokine, transcription regulatory protein, blood clotting protein and plant defense-inducing protein.


 
 5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the binding protein or binding domain thereof is antibody or antibody domain thereof.


 
 6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the binding protein or binding domain thereof is antibody or antibody domain thereof.


 
 7. The method according to claim 3, wherein the binding protein or binding domain is selected from the group consisting of protease inhibitor, crambin, enterotoxin, conotoxin, apaminm lysozyme, ribonuclease, charybdotoxin, cystatin, eglin, ovomucoid, azurin, tumor necrosis factor and CD4.


 
 8. The method according to claim 4, wherein the binding protein or binding domain is selected from the group consisting of protease inhibitor, crambin, enterotoxin, conotoxin, apaminm lysozyme, ribonuclease, charybdotoxin, cystatin, eglin, ovomucoid, azurin, tumor necrosis factor and CD4.


 
 9. The method according to claim 3, wherein the binding protein is monomer or multimer.


 
 10. The method according to claim 4, wherein the binding protein is monomer or multimer.


 
 11. The method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the protein of interest is one modified to enhance noncovalent bond with the genetic carrier.


 
 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the protein of interest is modified by virtue of: (i) deleting a portion of amino acids of the protein of interest; (ii) fusing oligopeptide or polypeptide, which enhance noncovalent bond between the protein of interest and genetic carrier, to the protein of interest or deleted form of (i)   ; (iii)    subjecting the protein of interest to site-directed mutagenesis; or (iv) subjecting the protein of interest to random mutagenesis.


 
 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the deleting a portion of amino acids of the protein of interest is performed by deleting ionic amino acids from N-terminal sequence of the protein of interest.


 
 14. The method according to claim 12, wherein the fused oligopeptide is cationic peptide.


 
 15. The method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the genetic carrier has a surface protein modified to enhance noncovalent bond with the protein of interest.


 
 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the genetic carrier is modified by virtue of: (i) fusing oligopeptide or polypeptide, which enhance noncovalent bond between the protein of interest and genetic carrier, to the surface protein of genetic carrier; (ii) subjecting the surface protein of genetic carrier to site-directed mutagenesis; or (iii) subjecting the surface protein of genetic carrier to random mutagenesis.


 
 17. The method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the host harboring spore is selected from the group consisting of a spore-forming Gram negative bacterium, a spore-forming Gram positive bacterium, a spore-forming Actionmycete, a spore-forming yeast and a spore-forming fungus.


 
 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the spore-forming Gram positive bacterium is selected from the group consisting of Clostridium, Paenibacillus and
Bacillus.


 
 19. The method according to claim 19, wherein the
Bacillus is selected from the group consisting of
Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus thuringiensis and Bacillus   megaterium.   


 
 20. The method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the virus is a bacteriophage.


 
 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the bacteriophage is located in periplasm of host cell and the protein of interest is bound to a surface of the bacteriophage.


 
 22, The method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the host cell is one mutated to eliminate a production of intracellular protease or extracellular protease which is involved in degradation of the surface-displayed protein of interest.


 
 23. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of screening is performed in such a manner that the spore library is treated with one or more selected from the group consisting of organic solvent, heat, acid, base, oxidant, dryness, surfactant and protease and then spore displaying on its surface the variant of protein of interest resistant to the treatment is selected.


 
 24. The method according to claim 2, wherein the genetic carrier is spore and the step of screening is performed in such a manner that the spore library is primarily treated with one or more selected from the group consisting of organic solvent, heat, acid, base, oxidant, dryness and surfactant followed by secondary treatment with protease and then spore displaying on its surface the variant of protein of interest resistant to the protease is selected.


 
 25. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the step of screening the genetic carrier displaying on its surface the protein of interest. 26. The method according to claim 2,3 or 25, wherein the step of screening is performed by means of (i) an activity of the protein of interest displayed on surface of genetic carrier; (ii) a protein being capable of recognizing a substance labeling the protein of interest; (iii) a labeled ligand being capable of binding to the protein of interest; or (iv) an antibody being capable of binding to the protein of interest specifically.


 
 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the screening by means of a labeled ligand being capable of binding to the protein of interest or an antibody being capable of binding to the protein of interest specifically is performed by virtue of flow cytometry.


 
 28. The method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the method further comprises the step of stabilizing the bond between the surface of the genetic carrier and the protein of interest by means of forming covalent bonds to between the surface of the genetic carrier and the protein of interest by use of physical, chemical or biochemical methods following displaying the protein of interest on the surface of genetic carrier via noncovalent bond.


 
 29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the chemical method to form covalent bond is a treatment of glutaraldehyde, the physical method is a treatment of ultraviolet and the biochemical method is a treatment of enzyme ensuring formation of covalent bond.


 
 30. A vector for displaying on surface of genetic carrier a protein of interest, which comprises a replication origin, an antibiotic-resistance gene, a restriction site, a gene encoding the protein of interest, wherein the protein of interest, when expressed in host cell, is capable of forming noncovalent bond to the surface of genetic carrier.


 
 31. The vector according to claim 30, wherein the gene encoding the protein of interest is one mutated to enhance noncovalent bond between the surface of genetic carrier and the protein of interest.


 
 32. The vector according to claim 31, wherein the gene encoding the protein of interest is mutated to (i) delete a portion of amino acids of the protein of interest; (ii) fuse oligopeptide or polypeptide, which enhance noncovalent bond between the protein of interest and genetic carrier, to the protein of interest or deleted form of (i); (iii) subject the protein of interest to site-directed mutagenesis; or (iv) subject the protein of interest to random mutagenesis.


 
 33. A microbial transformant, characterized in that the transformant is produced by transformation a host cell harboring spore or virus with a vector according to any one of claims 30-32.


 
 34. The transformant according to claim 33, wherein the host cell is one mutated to eliminate a production of intracellular protease or extracellular protease which is involve in degradation of the surfacedisplayed protein of interest.


 
 35. A complex between genetic carrier and protein of interest, characterized in that the complex is prepared by displaying on the surface of the genetic carrier, according to the method of claim 1, hormone, hormone analogue, enzyme, enzyme inhibitor, signal transduction protein or fragment thereof, antibody or fragment thereof, single chain antibody, binding protein or fragment thereof, peptide, antigen, adhesive protein, structural protein, regulatory protein, toxin protein, cytokine, transcription regulatory protein, blood clotting protein or plant defense-inducing protein.


 
 36. The complex according to claim 35, wherein the protein of interest is one modified by virtue of: (i) deleting a portion of amino acids of the protein of interest; (ii) fusing oligopeptide or polypeptide, which enhance noncovalent bond between the protein of interest and genetic carrier, to the protein of interest or deleted form of (i); (iii) subjecting the protein of interest to site-directed mutagenesis ; or (iv) subjecting the protein of interest to random mutagenesis.


 
 37. The complex according to claim 35, wherein the complex has additional covalent bonds to stabilize the bond between the surface of the genetic carrier and the protein of interest, in which the covalent bonds are formed by use of physical, chemical or biochemical methods following displaying the protein of interest on the surface of genetic carrier via noncovalent bond. 


 
 38. The complex according to any one of claims 35-37, wherein the genetic carrier is a spore.


 
 39. The complex according to claim 38, wherein the spore is non-reproductive one obtained by means of one or more methods selected from the group consisting of genetic method, chemical method and physical method.


 
 40. The complex according to claim 39, wherein the genetic method to make the spore non-reproductive is performed by deleting a gene involved in spore reproduction of host cell.


 
 41. The complex according to claim 38, wherein the spore is derived from a variant mutated to increase its agglutination property by one or more methods selected from the group consisting of genetic method, chemical method and physical method.


 
 42. The complex according to claim 35, wherein the protein of interest is monomer or multimer.


 
 43. The complex according to any one of claims 35-37, wherein the genetic carrier is a bacteriophage. 44. A genetic carrier library displaying on its surface variants of a protein of interest, prepared by a process comprising the steps of: (a) constructing a gene library of the protein of interest by means of mutating the gene encoding the protein of interest; (b) preparing a vector library containing the constructed gene library; (c) transforming a host cell harboring a genetic carrier selected from the group consisting of spore and virus with the vector library; (d) culturing the transformed host cell and expressing the variants of the protein of interest in the host cell;
 
  (e) obtaining a genetic carrier library by means of allowing to form noncovalent bond between the expressed protein variant and a surface of the genetic carrier so that the variant is displayed on the surface of the genetic carrier; and (f) screening the genetic carrier displaying on its surface the variant of the protein of interest having a desired property.


 
 45. The genetic carrier library according to claim 44, wherein the genetic carrier is a spore.


 
 46. The genetic carrier library according to claim 44, wherein the genetic carrier is a bacteriophage and the variants of the protein of interest is variants of binding protein or binding domain.


 
 47. A method for bioconversion using protein with activity for conversion reaction, characterized in that the method employs the complex between genetic carrier and protein of interest according to any one of claims 35-37.


 
 48. The method according to claim 47, wherein the protein having activity for conversion reaction is enzyme or antibody.


 
 49. A method producing an antibody to antigen in vertebrates, characterized in that the method comprises administering to vertebrates a composition containing an immunologically effective amount of the complex between genetic carrier and protein of interest according to any one of claims 35-37.


 
 50. A protein microarray comprising a solid substrate and a material immobilized onto the substrate, characterized in that the material immobilized onto the substrate is selected from the group consisting of the complex between genetic carrier and protein of interest according to any one of claims 35-37; and the genetic carrier library according to any one of claims 44-46.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
