
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims 
 
 1. A polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of: 
 (a) polynucleotides encoding a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO:2; 
 (b) polynucleotides comprising the nucleotide sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 1 ; 
 (c) polynucleotides comprising a nucleotide sequence obtainable by nucleic acid amplification such as polymerase chain reaction, using genomic DNA from a microorganism as a template and a primer set according to SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO:4; 
 (d) polynucleotides comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a fragment or derivative of a polypeptide encoded by a polynucleotide of any of (a) to (c) wherein in said derivative one or more amino acid residues are conservatively substituted compared to said polypeptide, and said fragment or derivative has the activity of a sugar transporter and/or sugar alcohol transporter; 
 (e) polynucleotides the complementary strand of which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a polynucleotide as defined in any one of (a) to (d) and which encode a sugar transporter and/or sugar alcohol transporter; and 
 (f) polynucleotides which are at least 70%, such as 85, 90 or 95% identical to a polynucleotide as defined in any one of (a) to (d) and which encode a sugar transporter and/or sugar alcohol transporter 
 or 
 the complementary strand of such a polynucleotide. 
 
 
 2. A vector containing the polynucleotide according to claim 1. 
 
 
 3. The vector of claim 2 in which the polynucleotide is operatively linked to expression control sequences allowing the expression in prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cells. 
 
 
 4. A microorganism genetically engineered with a polynucleotide according to claim 1 or with the vector of claim 2 or 3.   
 
 
 5. A microorganism according to claim 4 capable of directly producing Vitamin C from D-sorbitol in quantities of 300 mg/1 or more when measured in a resting cell method after an incubation period of 20 hours. 
 
 
 6. A microorganism according to claim 5 capable of directly producing Vitamin C from L-sorbose in quantities of 800 mg/1 or more. 
 
 
 7. A polypeptide encoded by a polynucleotide according to claim 1. 
 
 
 8. Process for producing cells capable of expressing a polypeptide according to claim 7, comprising the step of genetically engineering cells with the vector of claim 2 or 3 or with a polynucleotide according to claim 1. 
 
 
 9. Use of a polynucleotide according to claim 1 or a vector according to claims 2 or 3 for the production of Vitamin C. 
 
 
 10. Use according to claim 9, wherein the polynucleotide is operatively linked to expression control sequences and transferred into a microorganism. 
 
 
 11. Use according to claim 10, wherein the expression control sequences comprise a regulation-, and/or promoter-, and/or terminator sequence and wherein at least one of these sequences is altered in such a way that it leads to an improved yield and/or efficiency of production of Vitamin C produced by said microorganism. 
 
 
 12. Use according to claim 11, wherein the expression control sequences comprise a regulation-, and/or promoter-, and/or terminator sequence and wherein at least one of these sequences is altered in such a way that it leads to an increased and/or improved activity of a sugar transporter and/or sugar alcohol transporter. 
 
 
 13. A microorganism according to claim 4 or a microorganism containing an endogenous gene comprising a polynucleotide according to claim 1, said microorganism being genetically altered in such a way that it leads to an improved yield and/or efficiency of production of Vitamin C produced by said microorganism. 
 
 
 14. A microorganism according to claim 13 producing a polypeptide according to claim 7 with increased and/or improved sugar transporter and/or sugar alcohol transporter activity. 
 
 
 15. A microorganism according to any one of claims 4 to 6, 13 or 14 wherein the polynucleotide according to claim 1 is overexpressed.   
 
 
 16. A microorganism according to any one of claim 4 to 6 or 13 to 15 selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas, Pantoea, Escherichia, Corynebacterium, Ketogulonicigenium and acetic acid bacteria like e.g., Gluconobacter, Acetobacter or Gluconacetobacter, preferably Acetobacter sp., Acetobacter aceti, Gluconobacter frateurii, Gluconobacter cerinus, Gluconobacter thaϊlandicus, Gluconobacter oxydans, preferably Gluconobacter oxydans, more preferably Gluconobacter oxydans DSM 17078. 
 
 
 17. Process for the production of an enhanced endogenous sugar transporter and/or sugar alcohol transporter gene in a microorganism, said microorganism comprising a polynucleotide according to claim 1, said process comprising the step of altering said polynucleotide in such a way that it leads to an improved yield and/or efficiency of production of Vitamin C produced by said microorganism. 
 
 
 18. Process for the production of a microorganism capable of producing Vitamin C, comprising the step of altering said microorganism so that the microorganism produces a polypeptide with increased and/or improved sugar transporter and/or sugar alcohol transporter activity leading to an improved yield and/or efficiency of production of Vitamin C produced by said microorganism. 
 
 
 19. Process for the production of a microorganism containing an endogenous gene comprising a polynucleotide according to claim 1, comprising the step of altering said microorganism so that the endogenous gene is overexpressed, leading to an improved yield and/or efficiency of production of Vitamin C produced by said microorganism. 
 
 
 20. Process according to claim 18 or 19 for the production of a microorganism according to any one of claims 13 to 16. 
 
 
 21. Process for the production of Vitamin C with a microorganism according to any one of claims 13 to 16 or claims 4 to 6 wherein said microorganism is cultivated in a aqueous nutrient medium under conditions that allow the direct production of Vitamin C from D- sorbitol or L-sorbose and wherein optionally Vitamin C is isolated as the fermentation product.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
