
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
　ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌と、乳脂肪分と、を含む発酵乳であって、 
　前記乳脂肪分が前記発酵乳の総質量の２．０質量％以下である、発酵乳。
 A fermented milk containing bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei and milk fat,  Fermented milk, wherein the milk fat content is 2.0% by mass or less of the total mass of the fermented milk. 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記発酵乳が前記細菌を１．０×１０ ８ ＣＦＵ／ｇ以上含む、請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 The fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein the fermented milk contains the bacteria at 1.0×10  8  CFU/g or more. 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記発酵乳が前記細菌を２．０×１０ ８ ＣＦＵ／ｇ以上含む、請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 The fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein the fermented milk contains the bacteria at 2.0×10  8  CFU/g or more. 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記乳脂肪分が前記発酵乳の総質量の０．５質量％未満である、請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 
The fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein the milk fat content is less than 0.5% by mass of the total mass of the fermented milk.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記発酵乳がさらに無脂乳固形分を含み、 
　前記無脂乳固形分が前記発酵乳の総質量の８．０質量％以上である、 
請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 The fermented milk further includes non-fat milk solids,  The non-fat milk solid content is 8.0% by mass or more of the total mass of the fermented milk,  Fermented milk according to claim 1. 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記細菌がラクトバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｏｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）　ＭＣＣ１８４９（ＮＩＴＥ　ＢＰ－０１６３３）である、請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 
The fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein the bacterium is Lactobacillus paracasei MCC1849 (NITE BP-01633).
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記細菌が死菌である、請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 
The fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein the bacteria are dead bacteria.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記発酵乳のｐＨが５．０以下である、請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 
The fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein the fermented milk has a pH of 5.0 or less.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記発酵乳が固形食品、半固形食品、又はスプーンで食べる食品である、請求項１に記載の発酵乳。
 
The fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein the fermented milk is a solid food, a semi-solid food, or a food eaten with a spoon.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　請求項１に記載の発酵乳を製造するための発酵乳の製造方法であって、ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌を、乳脂肪分を２．０質量％以下含む発酵乳に添加することを含む、発酵乳の製造方法。
 
A method for producing fermented milk for producing fermented milk according to claim 1, wherein bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei are added to fermented milk containing 2.0% by mass or less of milk fat. A method for producing fermented milk, comprising adding.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌を乳脂肪分が２．０質量％以下の発酵乳に添加することを含む、発酵乳の酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強のための方法。
 
A method for reducing the sourness and/or enhancing the richness of fermented milk, which comprises adding bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei to fermented milk having a milk fat content of 2.0% by mass or less. .
 
 
 
     
 
   
　乳脂肪分が２．０質量％以下の発酵乳における酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強のための、ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌の使用。
 
Use of bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei for reducing acidity and/or enhancing body taste in fermented milk with a milk fat content of 2.0% by mass or less.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌を有効成分とする、乳脂肪分が２．０質量％以下の発酵乳の酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強のための剤。
 
An agent for reducing the sourness and/or enhancing the richness of fermented milk with a milk fat content of 2.0% by mass or less, which contains bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei as an active ingredient.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　乳脂肪分が２．０質量％以下の発酵乳の酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強における使用のための、ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌。
 
Bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei for use in reducing acidity and/or enhancing body taste of fermented milk with a milk fat content of 2.0% by mass or less.
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
