
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
 
 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding at least one carotenoid ketolase and at least one carotenoid hydroxylase, said nucleic acid molecule comprising: a) a nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid ketolase having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 17 and SEQ ID NO: 22; and b) a isolated nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 19 and SEQ ID NO: 24: or an isolated nucleic acid molecule completely complementary to the nucleic acid molecule comprising the elements of (a) and (b). 
 
 
 2. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding at least one carotenoid ketolase and at least one carotenoid hydroxylase, said nucleic acid molecule comprising: a) a nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid ketolase having a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 16 and SEQ ID NO: 21 ; and b) a nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase having a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID 
 NO: 18 and SEQ ID NO: 23; or an isolated nucleic acid molecule completely complementary to the nucleic acid molecule comprising the elements of (a) and (b). 
 
 
 3. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid ketolase and a carotenoid hydroxylase, said isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising: a) a nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid ketolase having an amino acid sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 17 and b) a nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme having an amino acid sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 19; or an isolated nucleic acid molecule completely complementary to the nucleic acid molecule comprising the elements of (a) and (b).   
 
 
 4. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a carotenoid ketolase and a carotenoid hydroxylase, said isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising: a) a nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid ketolase having an amino acid sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 21 ; and b) a nucleic acid fragment encoding a carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme having an amino acid sequence as represented by SEQ ID NO: 23; or an isolated nucleic acid molecule completely complementary to the nucleic acid molecule comprising the elements of (a) and (b). 
 
 
 5. A chimeric gene cluster comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of Claims 1 , or 3 operably linked to suitable regulatory sequences. 
 
 
 6. A transformed host cell comprising the chimeric gene cluster of Claim 5. 
 
 
 7. The transformed host cell of Claim 6 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, algae, and green plants. 
 
 
 8. The transformed host cell of Claim 7 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Phaffia, Candida, Hansenula, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinectorbacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter, Chloroborium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria, Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Methanomonas, Synechococcus, Anabeana, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, and Myxococcus. 
 
 
 9. The transformed host cell of Claim 8 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of Escherichia, Phaffia, and Methylomonas.   
 
 
 10. The transformed host cell of Claim 9 wherein the host cell is Methylomonas sp. 16a having the designation ATCC PTA 2402. 
 
 
 11. The transformed host cell of Claim 7 where the host cell is selected from the group consisting of soybean, rapeseed (Brassica napυs, B. campestris), pepper, sunflower (Helianthus annυs), cotton (Gossypium hirsutum), corn, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), wheat (Triticum sp), barley (Hordeum vulgare), oats (Avena sativa, L), sorghum (Sorghum bicoloή, rice (Oryza sativa), Arabidopsis, cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, parsnips, etc.), melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, and forage grasses. 
 
 
 12. A method for the production of astaxanthin comprising: a) providing a transformed host cell that produces β-carotene and which comprises the chimeric gene cluster of Claim 5 encoding at least one carotenoid ketolase enzyme and at least one carotenoid hydroxylase enzyme; and b) growing the transformed host cell of (a) under suitable conditions whereby astaxanthin is produced. 
 
 
 13. A method according to Claim 12, wherein after step (b) the astaxanthin is optionally isolated. 
 
 
 14. A method according to claim 12 wherein the carotenoid ketolase is a CrtO ketolase and the carotenoid hydroxylase is a CrtZ hydroxylase. 
 
 
 15. A method according to Claim 12 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi, algae, and green plants. 
 
 
 16. A method according to Claim 15 wherein the transformed host cell is selected from the group consisting of Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Saccharomyces, Pichia, Phaffia, Candida, Hansenula, Salmonella, Bacillus, Acinectorbacter, Zymomonas, Agrobacterium, Erythrobacter, Chloroborium, Chromatium, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, Rhodobacter, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, Brevibacterium, Corynebacteria,  Mycobacterium, Deinococcus, Escherichia, Erwinia, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylococcus, Methylosinus, Methylomicrobium, Methylocystis, Alcaligenes, Synechocystis, Methanomonas ,Synechococcus, Anabeana, Thiobacillus, Methanobacterium, Klebsiella, and Myxococcus. 
 
 
 17. A method according to Claim 16 wherein the transformed host cell is Methylomonas sp. 16a having the designation ATCC PTA 2402. 
 
 
 18. A method according to Claim 15 wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of soybean, rapeseed (Brassica napus, B. campestris), pepper, sunflower (Helianthus annus), cotton (Gossypium hirsutum), corn, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), wheat (Triticum sp), barley (Hordeum vulgare), oats (Avena sativa, L), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), rice (Oryza sativa), Arabidopsis, cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, parsnips, etc.), melons, carrots, celery, parsley, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, peanuts, grapes, grass seed crops, sugar beets, sugar cane, beans, peas, rye, flax, hardwood trees, softwood trees, and forage grasses. 
 
 
 19. A method of altering astaxanthin biosynthesis in an organism comprising: a) providing a host cell capable of producing astaxanthin; b) introducing into said host cell the nucleic acid molecule of Claim 5; and c) growing the host cell of (b) under conditions whereby the nucleic acid molecule is expressed and astaxanthin biosynthesis is altered. 
 
 
 20. A method according to Claim 19 wherein the expression of the nucleic acid molecule of Claim 5 is upregulated. 
 
 
 21. A method according to Claim 19 wherein the host cell of step (c ) comprises astaxanthin at a concentration of about 3% to about 20% of the total carotenoids produced. 
 
 
 22. A method according to Claim 20 wherein the nucleic acid molecule of Claim 5 is expressed on a multicopy plasmid   
 
 
 23. A method according to Claim 20 wherein the nucleic acid molecule of Claim 5 is operably linked to an inducible or regulated promoter. 
 
 
 24. A method according to Claim 19 wherein the nucleic acid molecule of Claim 5 is are down-regulated. 
 
 
 25. A method to generate and identify nucleic acid molecules encoding a carotenoid ketolase and a carotenoid hydroxylase having improved astaxanthin biosynthesis activity comprising: i) providing a host cell capable of producing β-carotene; j) providing a starting pair of genes comprising a carotenoid ketolase gene and a carotenoid hydroxylase; k) exposing said starting pair of genes simultaneously to mutational conditions in vitro to form a mutated gene pair; wherein at least one nucleotide has been altered in either one or both of said carotenoid ketolase gene or said carotenoid hydroxylase gene; I) operably linking the mutated gene pair to a suitable regulatory sequence; m) transforming the host cell of step a) with the mutated gene pair from step d) to produce a recombinant host cell; n) growing the recombinant host cell under conditions whereby astaxanthin is produced; o) measuring the amount of astaxanthin produced in step f) and selecting those transformants having increased astaxanthin production relative to the level of astaxanthin produced by the starting pair of genes in the host cell; and p) identifying the mutated gene pair from the selected transformants which have increased astaxanthin biosynthesis activity. 
 
 
 26. A method according to claim 25 wherein the mutate gene pair is optionally isolated after step (h). 
 
 
 27. A method according to Claim 25 wherein steps (e) - (h) are repeated. 
 
 
 28. A method according to Claim 27 wherein the mutational condition is error-prone PCR.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
