
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Claims  
 
 1. A method for preventing wood decay caused by pathogenic fungi, characterized in that said method comprises the steps of:  
  - from a strain of a pathogenic fungus causing wood decay, establishing a carrier host by having a preselected combination of at least a first mycovirus and a second mycovirus introduced thereto, and  
  - bringing said carrier host into contact with a surface affected by said pathogenic fungus.  
 
 
 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the carrier host is established by the strain of the pathogenic fungus selected from Heterobasidion species.  
 
 
 3. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the carrier host is established by Heterobasidion annosum or Heterobasidion parviporum.  
 
 
 4. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected such, as to complement each other in terms of a function or functions said myco viruses confer onto one another and/or onto their host.  
 
 
 5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first mycovirus is selected such, as to exert an at least one negative effect onto pathogenicity of its fimgal host, and wherein the second mycovirus is selected such, as to increase transmission rate of said first mycovirus from the carrier host to a target host established by the pathogenic fimgus on the affected surface.  
 
 
 6. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected from the double-stranded RNA viruses virulent to Heterobasidion species.  
 
 
 7. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are Heterobasidion partitiviruses.  
 
 
 8. The method of any preceding claim, wherein said first mycovirus is a Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl3-anl.  
 
 
 9. The method of any preceding claim, wherein said second mycovirus is a Heterobasidion partitivirus 15 strain HetPYl 5-pal. 

 
 
 
 10. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the carrier host is provided in the form of a fimgal mycelium.  
 
 
 11. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the surface, with which said carrier host is brought in contact with, is a living tree, a tree stump or a forest floor surrounding thereof.  
 
 
 12. A biological control agent, comprising a host established by a strain of a pathogenic fungus causing wood decay and having a preselected combination of at least a first my co virus and a second my co virus introduced thereto.  
 
 
 13. The biological control agent of claim 12, wherein the host is established by the strain of the pathogenic fungus selected from Heterobasidion species.  
 
 
 14. The biological control agent of any one of claims 12 and 13, wherein the host is established by Heterobasidion annosum or Heterobasidion parviporum.  
 
 
 15. The biological control agent of any preceding claims 12-14, wherein the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are selected such, as to complement each other in terms of a function or functions said mycoviruses confer onto one another and/or onto their host.  
 
 
 16. The biological control agent of any preceding claims 12-15, wherein the first mycovirus and the second mycovirus are Heterobasidion partitiviruses.  
 
 
 17. The biological control agent of any preceding claims 12-16, wherein said first mycovirus is a Heterobasidion partitivirus 13 strain HetPVl3-anl and wherein said second mycovirus is a Heterobasidion partitivirus 15 strain HetPVl 5-pal.  
 
 
 18. Use of the biological control agent according to any one of claims 12-17 in preventing forest diseases. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
