
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMSWhat is claimed is: 
 
 Claim 1. The isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01. 
 
 
 Claim 2. A humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 3. A chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 4. The isolated hybridoma cell line deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01. 
 
 
 Claim 5. A method for initiating antibody induced cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human breast or lung tumor comprising: providing a tissue sample from said breast or lung human tumor; providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 , the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01, the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen; and contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; wherein binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample induces cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 6. A CDMAB of the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1. 
 
 
 Claim 7. A CDMAB of the humanized antibody of claim 2.   
 
 
 Claim 8. A CDMAB of the chimeric antibody of claim 3. 
 
 
 Claim 9. The isolated antibody or CDMAB thereof, of any one of claims 1 , 2, 
 3, 6, 7 or 8 conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells. 
 
 
 Claim 10. A method of reduction of a human breast or lung tumor in a mammal, wherein said human breast or lung tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's breast or lung tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 1 1. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 12. The method of claim 1 1 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 14. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 16. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 17. A method of reduction of a human breast or lung tumor susceptible to antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human breast or lung  tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or said CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's breast or lung tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 20. The method of claim 17 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 21. The method of claim 17 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 22. The method of claim 17 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 23. The method of claim 17 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 24. A method of reduction of a human breast or lung tumor in a mammal, wherein said human breast or lung tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal  antibody or CDMAB thereof in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's breast or lung tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 27. The method of claim 24 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 28. The method of claim 24 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 29. The method of claim 24 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 30. The method of claim 24 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 31. Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human breast or lung tumor burden, wherein said human breast or lung tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammars human breast or lung tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 32. The method of claim 31 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 33. The method of claim 32 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope.   
 
 
 Claim 34. The method of claim 31 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 35. The method of claim 31 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 36. The method of claim 31 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01. 
 
 
 Claim 37. The method of claim 31 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01. 
 
 
 Claim 38. Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human breast or lung tumor burden, wherein said human breast or lung tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof; in conjunction with at least one c hemo therapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human breast or lung tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 39. The method of claim 38 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 40. The method of claim 39 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 41. The method of claim 38 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 42. The method of claim 38 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 43. The method of claim 38 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01.   
 
 
 Claim 44. The method of claim 38 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01. 
 
 
 Claim 45. A binding assay to determine a presence of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor, which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line AR79A154.2 having IDAC Accession No. 050707-01, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01, comprising: providing a tissue sample from said human tumor; providing at least one of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line AR79A154.2 having IDAC Accession No. 050707-01 ; contacting at least one said provided antibodies or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; and determining binding of said at least one provided antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated. 
 
 
 Claim 46. A monoclonal antibody which specifically binds to the same epitope or epitopes as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01. 
 
 
 Claim 47. An isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line AR79A154.2 having IDAC Accession No. 050707-01 ; said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof being characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target epitope or epitopes.   
 
 
 Claim 48. A composition effective for treating a human breast or lung tumor comprising in combination: an antibody or CDMAB of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 46, 47 a conjugate of said antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human breast or lung tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 49. A composition effective for treating a human breast or lung tumor comprising in combination: an antibody or CDMAB of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 46; 47, and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human breast or lung tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 50. A composition effective for treating a human breast or lung tumor comprising in combination: a conjugate of an antibody, antigen binding fragment, or CDMAB of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 46, 47; with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human breast or lung tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 51. An assay kit for detecting the presence of a human cancerous tumor, wherein said human cancerous tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, the kit comprising the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 050707-01 or a CDMAB thereof, and means for detecting whether the monoclonal antibody, or a CDMAB thereof, is  bound to a polypeptide whose presence, at a particular cut-off level, is diagnostic of said presence of said human cancerous tumor.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
