
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS:  
 
 1. A Trichoderma harzianum strain TSTh20-1 , which has been deposited at America Type Culture Collection under Patent Deposit Designation number PTA-10317 on September 2, 2009 and its progeny and spores thereof, or a mutant thereof having the ability to promote plant growth.  
 
 
 2. A composition comprising a Trichoderma harzianum fungus TSTh20-1 and its progeny and spores thereof, or a mutant thereof having the ability to promote plant growth, and, optionally, a carrier.  
 
 
 3. The composition of claim 2, which is in a fluid form suitable for spray application dip application or for coating seeds.  
 
 
 4. The composition of claim 2, which is in a paste-like form.  
 
 
 5. The composition of claim 2, which is in a substantially dry and powdered form for dusting.  
 
 
 6. A method of promoting plant growth, comprising inoculating a plant with isolated TSTh20-1 of claim 1 or the composition of any one of claims 2- 5.  
 
 
 7. The method of claim 6, wherein plant growth occurs under conditions of abiotic stress.  
 
 
 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the conditions of abiotic stress comprise the presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), napthenic acids (NAs), or high pH.  
 
 
 9. A method of increasing water use efficiency of a plant, comprising inoculating a plant with the isolated TSTh20-1 of claim 1 or the composition of claims 2-5.  
 
 
 10. The method of any one of the claims 7-9, further comprising growing said plant in soil or water.   
 
 
 11. A method of remediation of soil or water, comprising inoculating a plant with isolated TSTh20-1 of claim 1 or the composition of claims 2-5, and growing said plant in soil or water.  
 
 
 12. The method of claim 11 , wherein the soil or water comprises the presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), napthenic acids 
 (NAs), or high pH.  
 
 
 13. The method of any one of claims 7 or 11 , wherein plant growth occurs on oil tailing sands.  
 
 
 14. The method of any one of the claims 6- 2, wherein the plant inoculated is an agricultural plant.  
 
 
 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the agricultural plant is selected from the group of plants comprising of: tomato plants, rice plants, maize plants, watermelon plants, squash plants, turf and wheat.  
 
 
 16. The method of any one of the claims 6-15, wherein said fungus is applied to ungerminated seeds that will give rise to said plants.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
