
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A seed of a soybean [ Glycine 
  max  (L.) Merrill] cultivar SCEL-1, the seed comprising cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, procyanidin B2, and epicatechin, wherein an amount of the procyanidin B2 is greater than that of the cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, and a representative sample of the seed is deposited with the Korean Agricultural Culture Collection(KACC), which is an International Depository Authority(IDA) under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purpose of Patent Procedure under the accession number KACC 88002BP on November 8, 2018. 
 
     
 The seed of claim 1, wherein a total amount of the procyanidin B2 and the epicatechin in the seed is 2.6 times to 5.1 times greater than that of a cultivar named Wonheug based on an extract obtained by pulverizing the seed and incubating the pulverized seed at a temperature in a range of about 25 ℃ to about 55 ℃ for 6 hours by using 70 (v/v)% aqueous ethanol. 
 
     
 The seed of claim 2, wherein the total amount of the procyanidin B2 and the epicatechin in the seed is in a range of about 1.3% to about 2.4% based on a total weight of the extract thereof. 
 
     
 The seed of claim 2, wherein the cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, the procyanidin B2, and the epicatechin are contained in the seed at a content ratio of 1: 2.0 to 2.1: 0.43 to 0.48 on a weight basis. 
 
     
 A plant body derived from the seed of claim 1 or a part of the plant body. 
 
     
 The plant body or the part thereof of claim 5, wherein the part of the plant body comprises pollen, a root, a seed coat, cells, a leaf, a stem, an anther, an ovule, a bean sprout, a bean pod, or an extract of any of the foregoing. 
 
     
 A soybean plant body obtained by transforming the plant body or the part thereof of claim 5. 
 
     
 A seed of the soybean plant body of claim 7. 
 
     
 A progeny of the soybean plant body of claim 7. 
 
     
 A method of producing a product, the method comprising: 
 obtaining a plant body of a soybean cultivar seed or a part of the plant body, wherein the soybean cultivar seed is a seed of soybean Glycine max (L.) Merrill cultivar SCEL-1, the seed containing cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, procyanidin B2, and epicatechin, wherein an amount of the procyanidin B2 is greater than that of the cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, and a representative sample of the seed is deposited with the Korean Agricultural Culture Collection(KACC), which is an International Depository Authority(IDA) under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purpose of Patent Procedure under the accession number KACC 88002BP on November 8, 2018; and 
 producing a product from the plant body or the part thereof. 
 
     
 The method of claim 10, wherein the product comprises a protein concentrate, a protein isolate, soybean hulls, meal, flour, oil, an extract, or a bean sprout. 
 
     
 A composition for antioxidation, protection of hepatocytes, or reduction of amounts of total cholesterol, high-density lipoproteins (HDLs), low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), and triglycerides (TGs), the composition comprising, an active ingredient, an extract obtained by performing an extraction process on a soybean cultivar seed by using water, C 1 -C 6  alcohol, or a mixture thereof, wherein the soybean cultivar seed is a seed of soybean  Glycine max  (L.) Merrill cultivar SCEL-1, the seed containing cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, procyanidin B2, and epicatechin, wherein an amount of the procyanidin B2 is greater than that of the cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, and a representative sample of the seed is deposited with the Korean Agricultural Culture Collection(KACC), which is an International Depository Authority(IDA) under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purpose of Patent Procedure under the accession number KACC 88002BP on November 8, 2018. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 12, wherein a total amount of procyanidin B2 and epicatechin in the extract is in a range of about 1.3% to about 2.4% on a weight basis. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 12, wherein cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, procyanidin B2, and epicatechin are comprised in the composition at a ratio of 1: 2.0 to 2.1: 0.43 to 0.48, on a weight basis. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 12, wherein an amount of the extract is in a range of about 0.005% to about 99.9% based on a total weight of the composition. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 12, wherein the composition is food, a cosmetic composition, or a pharmaceutical composition. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 16, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is for protecting hepatocytes from oxidative stress. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 16, wherein the cosmetic composition is for protecting skin from oxidative stress. 
 
     
 The composition of claim 16, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is for preventing or treating an alcoholic liver disease caused by alcohol or a mixture thereof. 
 
     
 A composition for antioxidation or protection of hepatocytes, the composition comprising, as active ingredients, cyanidin-3-O-glucoside or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, procyanidin B2 or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, and epicatechin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, at a ratio of 1: 2.0 to 2.1: 0.43 to 0.48, on a weight basis, respectively. 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
