
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 A method for preparing a fermented soy product comprising: 
 inoculating a  Bacillus amyloliquefaciens  CJ24-34 (KCCM12038P) strain into a soybean meal or a soy protein concentrate; and 
 obtaining a fermented soybean meal or a fermented soy protein concentrate which is fermented by culturing the  Bacillus amyloliquefaciens  strain. 
   
 
     
 The method for preparing a fermented soy product of claim 1, wherein the fermented soy product has an antibacterial activity against at least one pathogen selected from the group consisting of  Salmonella typhimurium ,  Vibrio vulnificus ,  Vibrio parahaemolyticus ,  Photobacterium damsel ,  Listonella anguillarum , and  Edwardsiella tarda .  
   
 
     
 The method for preparing a fermented soy product of claim 1 or 2, wherein the fermented soy product comprises 40% or more of low molecular weight peptides having a molecular weight of 30　kDa or less. 
   
 
     
 The method for preparing a fermented soy product according to any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising controlling the moisture content of the soybean meal or soy protein concentrate and subjecting it to heat treatment prior to inoculating the strain into the soybean meal or soy protein concentrate. 
   
 
     
 The method for preparing a fermented soy product of claim 4, wherein the moisture content of the soybean meal or fermented soy protein concentrate is controlled in the range of 30%　(v/w) to 80%　(v/w), and the heat treatment is performed at 70℃ to 130℃ for 10 minutes to 30 minutes. 
   
 
     
 The method for preparing a fermented soy product according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the  Bacillus amyloliquefaciens  CJ24-34 (KCCM12038P) strain is inoculated at a cell count of 10 5 　CFU/g   to 10 9 　CFU/g.  
   
 
     
 The method for preparing a fermented soy product according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the culture is performed at 20℃ to 50℃ for 8 hours to 72 hours.  
   
 
     
 The method for preparing a fermented soy product according to any one of claims 1 to 7, further comprising drying and pulverizing the fermented soybean meal or fermented soy protein concentrate obtained above.  
   
 
     
 A  Bacillus amyloliquefaciens  CJ24-34 (KCCM12038P) strain. 
   
 
     
 An antibacterial composition comprising a  Bacillus amyloliquefaciens  CJ24-34 (KCCM12038P) strain, a culture of the strain, a concentrate of the culture, or a dried product of the culture and having an antibacterial activity against at least one pathogen selected from the group consisting of  Salmonella typhimurium ,  Vibrio vulnificus ,  Vibrio parahaemolyticus ,  Photobacterium damsel ,  Listonella anguillarum , and  Edwardsiella tarda . 
   
 
     
 A fermented soy product prepared by the method according to any one of claims 1 to 8.  
   
 
     
 An animal feed composition comprising the fermented soy product of claim 11.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
