
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What is claimed is: 
 
 1. A pharmaceutical composition for preventing or treating a disease or disorder associated with the expression of RANKL (receptor activator of NF-κB ligand), which comprises (a) a pharmaceutically effective amount of an antibody to IP-IO (interferon-γ-inducible protein 10); and (b) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 
 
 2. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein the antibody to IP-IO inhibits the expression of RANKL and TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor-α). 
 
 
 3. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein the antibody to IP-10 is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line as deposited with the Korean Cell Line Research Foundation under Accession Nos. KCLRF-BP-OO 142, KCLRF-BP-00143, KCLRF-BP-00144 or KCLRF-BP-00145. 
 
 
 4. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3, wherein the antibody to IP-10 is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line as deposited with the Korean Cell Line Research Foundation under Accession Nos. KCLRF-BP-00142 or KCLRF-BP-00144. 
 
 
 5. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein the disease or disorder associated with the expression of RANKL is a bone disease. 
 
 
 6. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 5, wherein the bone disease is osteoporosis, juvenile osteoporosis, osteogenesis imperfecta, hypercalcemia, hyperparathyroidism, osteomalacia, osteohalisteresis, osteolytic bone disease, osteonecrosis, Paget's disease of bone, bone loss due to rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory arthritis, osteomyelitis, metastatic bone diseases, periodontal bone loss, bone loss due to cancer and age-related loss of bone mass. 
 
 
 7. A method for inhibiting the expression of RANKL (receptor activator of NF-κB  ligand), which comprises administering to a subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising (a) a pharmaceutically effective amount of an antibody to IP-IO (interferon-γ-inducible protein 10); and (b) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 
 
 
 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the antibody to IP-IO inhibits the expression of TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor-α). 
 
 
 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the antibody to IP-10 is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line as deposited with the Korean Cell Line Research Foundation under Accession Nos. KCLRF-BP-00142, KCLRF-BP-OO 143, KCLRF-BP-00144 or KCLRF-BP-00145. 
 
 
 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the antibody to IP-10 is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line as deposited with the Korean Cell Line Research Foundation under Accession Nos. KCLRF-BP-00142 or KCLRF-BP- 00144. 
 
 
 11. The method according to claim 7, wherein the method prevents or treats a bone disease by inhibiting the expression of RANKL. 
 
 
 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the bone disease is osteoporosis, juvenile osteoporosis, osteogenesis imperfecta, hypercalcemia, hyperparathyroidism, osteomalacia, osteohalisteresis, osteolytic bone disease, osteonecrosis, Paget's disease of bone, bone loss due to rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory arthritis, osteomyelitis, metastatic bone diseases, periodontal bone loss, bone loss due to cancer and age-related loss of bone mass. 
 
 
 13. Use of an antibody to IP-10 (interferon-γ-inducible protein 10) for manufacturing a medicament for preventing or treating a disease or disorder associated with the expression of RANKL (receptor activator of NF-κB ligand).   
 
 
 14. The use according to claim 13, wherein the antibody to IP-IO inhibits the expression of RANKL and TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor-α). 
 
 
 15. The use according to claim 13, wherein the antibody to IP-10 is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line as deposited with the Korean Cell Line 
 Research Foundation under Accession Nos. KCLRF-BP-OO 142, KCLRF-BP-00143, KCLRF-BP-00144 or KCLRF-BP-00145. 
 
 
 16. The use according to claim 15, wherein the antibody to IP-10 is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line as deposited with the Korean Cell Line 
 Research Foundation under Accession Nos. KCLRF-BP-00142 or KCLRF-BP-00144. 
 
 
 17. The use according to claim 13, wherein the disease or disorder associated with the expression of RANKL is a bone disease. 
 
 
 18. The use according to claim 17, wherein the bone disease is osteoporosis, juvenile osteoporosis, osteogenesis imperfecta, hypercalcemia, hyperparathyroidism, osteomalacia, osteohalisteresis, osteolytic bone disease, osteonecrosis, Paget's disease of bone, bone loss due to rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory arthritis, osteomyelitis, metastatic bone diseases, periodontal bone loss, bone loss due to cancer and age-related loss of bone mass. 
 
 
 19. A method for screening an antibody drug candidate to inhibit the expression of RANKL (receptor activator of NF-κB ligand), which comprises the steps of: (a) preparing an antibody specifically binding to IP-10 (interferon-γ-inducible protein 10); and 
 (b) analyzing the binding affinity of the antibody to IP-10, wherein the antibody having the binding affinity IP-10 is determined as the antibody drug candidate to inhibit the expression of RANKL.   
 
 
 20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the antibody drug candidate is used for a drug for preventing or treating a bone disease. 
 
 
 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the bone disease is osteoporosis, juvenile osteoporosis, osteogenesis imperfecta, hypercalcemia, hyperparathyroidism, osteomalacia, osteohalisteresis, osteolytic bone disease, osteonecrosis, Paget's disease of bone, bone loss due to rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory arthritis, osteomyelitis, metastatic bone diseases, periodontal bone loss, bone loss due to cancer and age-related loss of bone mass. 
 
 
 22. A monoclonal antibody specifically binding to IP 10 (interferon-γ-inducible protein 10), which is produced by a hybridoma cell line as deposited with the Korean Cell Line Research Foundation under Accession Nos. KCLRF-BP-00142, KCLRF-BP- 00143, KCLRF-BP-00144 or KCLRF-BP-00145.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
