
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
 
 1. A method for screening substances affecting transcription activity associated with promoter, which comprises the steps of: (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; and 
 (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector. 
 
 
 2. A method for screening substances affecting transcription activity associated with enhancer, which comprises the steps of : 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter, the enhancer being located upstream of the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; and 
 (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector. 
 
 
 3. A method for screening substances affecting  transcription activity associated with cis-element, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter, the cis-element being located upstream of the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; and (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector. 
 
 
 4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 , wherein the reporter gene is one selected from the group consisting of genes encoding luciferase, chlroamphenicol acetyltransferase, β-galactosidase, human growth hormone, green fluorescent protein and secreted placental alkaline phosphatase . 
 
 
 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the reporter gene is luciferase. 
 
 
 6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 , wherein the eukaryotic replication origin is one selected from the group consisting of fl replication origin, SV40 replication origin and p Bl replicon.   
 
 
 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the promoter is one selected from the group consisting of promoter of p53 gene, promoter of SOD1 gene, promoter of catalase gene and pregenome promoter of HBV. 
 
 
 8. The method according to claims 2 or 3 , wherein the promoter is one selected from the group consisting of minimal promoter lacking enhancer region, SV 40 promoter and tk promoter of HSV. 
 
 
 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the minimal promoter lacking enhancer region is derived from cytomegalo virus . 
 
 
 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the minimal promoter consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l. 
 
 
 11. The method according to claim 3, wherein the cis- element is one selected from the group consisting of NFKB, 
 PP E, HRE, MRE, XRE, PRE, HSE, Spl, API, AP2 and p53. 
 
 
 12. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 , wherein the eukaryotic cells are cells derived from mammalian tumor cell lines. 
 
 
 13. A method for screening substances affecting  transcription activity associated with enhancer, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing mammalian tumor cell lines transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a minimal promoter derived from cytomegalo virus, the enhancer being located upstream of the minimal promoter and a luciferase gene being located downstream of the promoter; and 
 (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of luciferase expressed. 
 
 
 14. A method for screening substances affecting transcription activity associated with cis-element, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a minimal promoter derived from cytomegalo virus, the cis- element being located upstream of the promoter and a luciferase gene being located downstream of the promoter; and (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector.   
 
 
 15. A method for detecting dioxin-like compounds in sample, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with the sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a minimal promoter lacking enhancer region, XRE being located upstream of the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; and (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector. 
 
 
 16. A method for screening in vivo antagonists to dioxin- like compounds, which comprises the steps of: (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with the dioxin-like compound and a sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a minimal promoter lacking enhancer region, XRE being located upstream of the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; and 
 (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector. 
 
 
 17. The method according to claims 15 or 16, wherein the reporter gene is one selected from the group consisting of  genes encoding luciferase, chlroamphenicol acetyltransferase, β-galactosidase, human growth hormone, green fluorescent protein and secreted placental alkaline phosphatasereporter. 
 
 
 18. The method according to claim 17, the reporter gene is a gene encoding luciferase. 
 
 
 19. The method according to claims 15 or 16, wherein the XRE is derived from SOD gene. 
 
 
 20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the XRE comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO : 2. 
 
 
 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the XRE comprises at least 2-repeated XRE sequences. 
 
 
 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the repeated XRE sequences are contiguous. 
 
 
 23. The method according to claims 16 or 17, wherein the minimal promoter is derived from cytomegalo virus. 
 
 
 24. The method according to claim 20, wherein the minimal promoter consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID 
 NO:l.   
 
 
 25. The method according to claims 15 or 16, wherein the eukaryotic cells are mammalian tumor cell lines. 
 
 
 26. A method for detecting dioxin-like compounds in sample, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing mammalian tumor cell lines transfected stably with a reporter vector with the sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a minimal promoter lacking enhancer region derived from cytomegalo virus, at least 2 -repeated XRE sequences being located upstream of the promoter and a luciferase gene being located downstream of the promoter; and 
 (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of luciferase expressed. 
 
 
 27. A method for screening in vivo antagonists to dioxin- like compounds, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing mammalian tumor cell lines transfected stably with a reporter vector with the dioxin-like compound and a sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a minimal promoter lacking enhancer region derived from cytomegalo virus, at least 2- repeated XRE sequences being located upstream of the promoter and a luciferase gene being located downstream of the promoter; and  (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of luciferase expressed. 
 
 
 28. A TRAS-enhancer reporter vector, which comprises (a) a reporter gene, (b) an eukaryotic replication origin, (c) a polyadenylation signal sequence, (d) a gene for resistance to antibiotics affecting eukaryotic cells as selection marker, (e) an eukaryotic minimal promoter being located upstream of the reporter gene, and (f) a cloning site for receiving a transcriptional regulation sequence being a binding site of an enhancer to be analyzed, in which the cloning site is a multiple cloning site having at least 2 restriction sites and is located upstream of the eukaryotic minimal promoter. 
 
 
 29. A TRAS-TF reporter vector, which comprises (a) a reporter gene, (b) an eukaryotic replication origin, (c) a polyadenylation signal sequence, (d) a gene for resistance to antibiotics affecting eukaryotic cells as selection marker, (e) an eukaryotic minimal promoter being located upstream of the reporter gene, and (f) a cis-element being located upstream of the eukaryotic minimal promoter. 
 
 
 30. The vector according to claims 28 or 29, wherein the reporter gene is one selected from the group consisting of genes encoding luciferase, chlroamphenicol acetyltransferase, β-galactosidase, human growth hormone,  green fluorescent protein and secreted placental alkaline phosphatase; the eukaryotic replication origin is one selected from the group consisting of fl replication origin, SV40 replication origin and pMBl replicon. 
 
 
 31. The vector according to claim 30, wherein the reporter gene is a gene encoding luciferase. 
 
 
 32. The vector according to claims 28 or 29, wherein the eukaryotic minimal promoter lacks enhancer regions and is derived from cytomegalo virus . 
 
 
 33. The vector according to claim 32, wherein the eukaryotic minimal promoter consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l. 
 
 
 34. The vector according to claim 28, wherein the vector has a genetic map represented by Fig. 2. 
 
 
 35. The vector according to claim 29, wherein the cis- element is one selected from the group consisting of NFKB binding site, peroxisome response element, hydrogen peroxide response element, metal response element, XRE, progesterone response element, heat shock response element, Spl binding site, API binding site, AP2 binding site and p53 binding site.   
 
 
 36. The TRAS-TF reporter vector according to claim 35, wherein the cis-element is XRE. 
 
 
 37. The TRAS-TF reporter vector according to claim 36, wherein the vector has a genetic map represented by Fig. 3. 
 
 
 38. A TRAS-enhancer reporter vector, which comprises (a) a luciferase gene, (b) an eukaryotic replication origin, (c) a polyadenylation signal sequence, (d) a gene for resistance to antibiotics affecting eukaryotic cells as selection marker, (e) an eukaryotic minimal promoter lacking enhancer regions derived from cytomegal virus and being located upstream of the reporter gene, and (f) a cloning site for receiving a transcriptional regulation sequence being a binding site of a transcription factor to be analyzed, in which the cloning site is a multiple cloning site having at least 2 restriction sites and is located upstream of the eukaryotic minimal promoter. 
 
 
 39. A TRAS-TF reporter vector, which comprises (a) a luciferase gene, (b) an eukaryotic replication origin, (c) a polyadenylation signal sequence, (d) a gene for resistance to antibiotics affecting eukaryotic cells as selection marker, (e) an eukaryotic minimal promoter derived from cytomegal virus and being located upstream of the reporter gene, and (f) a cis-element being located upstream of the eukaryotic promoter.   
 
 
 40. A TRAS-XRE reporter vector, which comprises (a) a luciferase gene, (b) an eukaryotic replication origin, (c) a polyadenylation signal sequence, (d) a gene for resistance to antibiotics affecting eukaryotic cells as selection marker, (e) an eukaryotic minimal promoter derived from cytomegal virus and being located upstream of the reporter gene, and (f) at least 2 -repeated XRE sequences being located upstream of the promoter. 
 
 
 41. An eukaryotic cell line transfected stably with the vector of claim 39 and showing a similar growth pattern to that of cancer cell, in which the cell line is useful in the method according to claim 3. 
 
 
 42. An eukaryotic cell line transfected stably with the vector of claim 40 and showing a similar growing pattern to that of cancer cell, in which the cell line is useful in the method according claims 15 or 16. 
 
 
 43. The cell line according to claims 41 or 42, wherein the cell line is mammalian tumor cell line. 
 
 
 44. The eukaryotic cell line according to claim 43, wherein the eukaryotic cell line is TRAS-XRE HepG2 (KCLRF- BP-00034) .   
 
 
 45. A method for screening leading compounds of new drug, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed so that the efficacy of the sample affecting transcriptional activity of target sequence is evaluated, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector so that the sample can be evaluated in terms of pharmacological efficacy; 
 (c) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells with the sample, in which the cell is one designed to be employed in a preliminary test prior to preclinical trials and transfected stably with a reporter vector carrying a reporter gene, and in which the preliminary test evaluates the sample in terms of one or more selected from the group consisting of a toxicity, an adverse effect associated with sex hormone, a metabolic stability and an intestinal absorption; and 
 (d) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector of (c) . 
 
 
 46. A method for screening leading compounds of new drug,  which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed so that the efficacy of the sample affecting transcriptional activity of target sequence is evaluated, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter, an enhancer being located upstream of the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector so that the sample can be evaluated in terms of pharmacological efficacy; 
 (c) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells with the sample, in which the cell is one designed to be employed in a preliminary test prior to preclinical trials and transfected stably with a reporter vector carrying a reporter gene, and in which the preliminary test evaluates the sample in terms of one or more selected from the group consisting of a toxicity, an adverse effect associated with sex hormone, a metabolic stability and an intestinal absorption; and 
 (d) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector of (c) . 
 
 
 47. A method for screening leading compounds of new drug,  which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with a sample to be assayed so that the efficacy of the sample affecting transcriptional activity of target sequence is evaluated, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter, a cis- element being located upstream of the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector so that the sample can be evaluated in terms of pharmacological efficacy; 
 (c) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells with the sample, in which the cell is one designed to be employed in a preliminary test prior to preclinical trials and transfected stably with a reporter vector carrying a reporter gene, and in which the preliminary test evaluates the sample in terms of one or more selected from the group consisting of a toxicity, an adverse effect associated with sex hormone, a metabolic stability and an intestinal absorption; and 
 (d) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector of (c) . 
 
 
 48. The method according to any one of claims 46 to 48,  wherein the cell designed to evaluate the toxicity of the sample is one transfected stably with a reporter vector, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter, a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter and a transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a cell toxicity which is located upstream of the promoter. 
 
 
 49. The method according to claim 48, wherein the transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a cell toxicity is selected from the group consisting of p53 RE, NFkB RE, estrogen RE and cytokine RE. 
 
 
 50. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 47, wherein the cell designed to evaluate a side effect associated with sex hormone of the sample is one transfected stably with a reporter vector, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter, a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter and a transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a side effect associated with sex hormone which is located upstream of the promoter. 
 
 
 51. The method according claim 50, wherein the transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a side effect associated with sex hormone is selected from the estrogen RE, progesterone RE, androgen RE and endocrine  hormone RE . 
 
 
 52. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 47, wherein the cell designed to evaluate the intestinal absorption of the sample is one derived from human intestine or colon and transfected stably with the reporter vector employed in step (a) of any one of claims 45 to 47. 
 
 
 53. The method according to claim 52, wherein the cell designed to evaluate the intestinal absorption of the sample is Caco-2 cell or IEC-18 cell transfected stably with the reporter vector employed in step (a) of any one of claims 45 to 47. 
 
 
 54. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 47, wherein the cell designed to evaluate the metabolic stability of the sample expresses CytP 45 o isomer enzymes and is one transfected stably with a reporter vector employed in step (a) of any one of claims 45 to 47. 
 
 
 55. The method according to claim 54, wherein the CytP 50  isomer enzyme is selected from the group consisting of CYPIAI, CYP1A2, CYP2A6 , CYP2C10, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4. 
 
 
 56. The method according to claim 55, wherein the cell is  NIH3T3 cell or HepG2 cell transfected stably with a reporter vector employed in step (a) of any one of claims 45 to 47. 
 
 
 57. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 47, wherein the reporter gene is one selected from the group consisting of genes encoding luciferase, chlroamphenicol acetyltransferase, β-galactosidase, human growth hormone, green fluorescent protein and secreted placental alkaline phosphatase . 
 
 
 58. The method according to claim 58, wherein the reporter gene is luciferase. 
 
 
 59. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 47, wherein the eukaryotic replication origin is one selected from the group consisting of fl replication origin, SV40 replication origin and pMBl replicon. 
 
 
 60. The method according to claim 45, wherein the promoter is one selected from the group consisting of promoter of p53 gene, promoter of SOD1 gene, promoter of catalase gene and pregenome promoter of HBV. 
 
 
 61. The method according to claims 46 or 47, wherein the promoter is one selected from the group consisting of minimal promoter lacking enhancer region, SV 40 promoter  and tk promoter of HSV. 
 
 
 62. The method according to claim 61, wherein the minimal promoter lacking enhancer region is derived from cytomegalo virus . 
 
 
 63. The method according to claim 62, wherein the minimal promoter consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l. 
 
 
 64. The method according to claim 47, wherein the cis- element is one selected from the group consisting of NFKB binding site, peroxisome response element, hydrogen peroxide response element, metal response element, XRE, progesterone response element, heat shock response element, Spl binding site, API binding site, AP2 binding site and p53 binding site. 
 
 
 65. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 47, wherein the eukaryotic cells employed in step (a) are cells derived from mammalian tumor cell lines. 
 
 
 66. A method for screening leading compounds for new drug serving as in vivo antagonist to dioxin-like compounds, which comprises the steps of: 
 (a) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells transfected stably with a reporter vector with the  dioxin-like compound and a sample to be assayed; in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a minimal promoter lacking enhancer region, XRE being located upstream of the promoter and a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter; 
 (b) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector so that the sample can be evaluated in terms of pharmacological efficacy; 
 (c) treating medium containing eukaryotic cells with the sample, in which the cell is one designed to be employed in a preliminary test prior to preclinical trials and transfected stably with a reporter vector carrying a reporter gene, and in which the preliminary test evaluates the sample in terms of one or more selected from the group consisting of a toxicity, an adverse effect associated with sex hormone, a metabolic stability and an intestinal absorption; and (d) measuring an activity or a quantity of protein encoded by the reporter gene on the reporter vector of (c) . 
 
 
 67. The method according to claim 66, wherein the cell designed to evaluate the toxicity of the sample is one transfected stably with a reporter vector, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin,  a promoter, a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter and a transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a cell toxicity which is located upstream of the promoter. 
 
 
 68. The method according to claim 67, wherein the transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a cell toxicity is selected from the group consisting of p53 RE, NFkB RE, estrogen RE and cytokine RE. 
 
 
 69. The method according to claim 66, wherein the cell designed to evaluate a side effect associated with sex hormone of the sample is one transfected stably with a reporter vector, in which the reporter vector carries an eukaryotic replication origin, a promoter, a reporter gene being located downstream of the promoter and a transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a side effect associated with sex hormone which is located upstream of the promoter. 
 
 
 70. The method according claim 69, wherein the transcriptional regulatory sequence demonstrating a side effect associated with sex hormone is selected from the estrogen RE, progesterone RE, androgen RE and endocrine hormone RE . 
 
 
 71. The method according to claim 66 , wherein the cell  designed to evaluate the intestinal absorption of the sample is one derived from human intestine or colon and transfected stably with the reporter vector employed in step (a) . 
 
 
 72. The method according to claim 71, wherein the cell designed to evaluate the intestinal absorption of the sample is Caco-2 cell or IEC-18 cell transfected stably with the reporter vector employed in step (a) . 
 
 
 73. The method according to claim 66, wherein the cell designed to evaluate the metabolic stability of the sample expresses CytP 450  isomer enzymes and is one transfected stably with a reporter vector employed in step (a) . 
 
 
 74. The method according to claim 73, wherein the CytP 450  isomer enzyme is selected from the group consisting of CYPIAI, CYP1A2, CYP2A6 , CYP2C10, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4. 
 
 
 75. The method according to claim 74, wherein the cell is NIH3T3 cell or HepG2 cell transfected stably with a reporter vector employed in step (a) . 
 
 
 76. The method according to claim 66, wherein the reporter gene is one selected from the group consisting of genes encoding luciferase, chlroamphenicol acetyltransferase, β-  galactosidase, human growth hormone, green fluorescent protein and secreted placental alkaline phosphatase reporter. 
 
 
 77. The method according to claim 76, the reporter gene is a gene encoding luciferase. 
 
 
 78. The method according to claim 76, wherein the XRE is derived from SOD gene . 
 
 
 79. The method according to claim 78, wherein the XRE comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO : 2. 
 
 
 80. The method according to claim 79, wherein the XRE comprises at least 2 -repeated XRE sequences. 
 
 
 81. The method according to claim 80, wherein the repeated XRE sequences are contiguous. 
 
 
 82. The method according to claim 66, wherein the minimal promoter is derived from cytomegalo virus. 
 
 
 83. The method according to claim 82, wherein the minimal promoter consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO : 1. 
 
 
 84. The method according to claim 66 , wherein the  eukaryotic cells in step (a) are mammalian tumor cell lines . 
 
 
 85. A pharmaceutical composition treating or preventing disease or disorder caused by dioxin-like compounds, in which the pharmaceutical composition is obtained from the method according to any one of claims 66-84. 
 
 
 86. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 85, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises (a) a pharmaceutically effective amount of an extract of one or more selected from the group consisting of Angelica gigas Nakai , Lycii Fructus, Aurantii Immaturi Pericarpium and Aurantii Nobilis Pericarpium; and (b) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
