
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CLAIMS: 
 
 1. A method for increasing dry matter production by a selected nitrogen- fixing legume, the method comprising: selecting a rhizobial bacterial culture capable of infecting and establishing an effective symbiotic nitrogen-fixing relationship with said legume; manipulating said rhizobial bacterial culture to impair a functioning triose- phosphate isomerase enzyme activity therein said rhizobial bacterial culture; and inoculating said legume with an effective amount of said manipulated rhizobial bacterial culture wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme activity has been impaired. 
 
 
 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said inoculated legume is cultured into a plant. 
 
 
 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by genetically manipulating said rhizobial bacterial culture. 
 
 
 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by inserting a nucleotide sequence into a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA, said nucleotide sequence configured to interfere with the synthesis of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 5. A method according to claim 3, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by inserting a nucleotide sequence into a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA, said nucleotide sequence configured to interfere with the activation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 6. A method according to claim 3, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by inserting a nucleotide sequence into a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA, said nucleotide sequence configured to interfere with the functional operation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme.   
 
 
 7. A method according to claim 3, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by deleting a nucleotide sequence from a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA encoding the synthesis of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 8. A method according to claim 3, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by deleting a nucleotide sequence from a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA encoding control over the activation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 9. A method according to claim 3, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by deleting a nucleotide sequence from a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA encoding control over the functional operation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said legume is a forage legume. 
 
 
 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said forage legume is selected from a group comprising alfalfa, clover, trefoil, crown vetch and milkvetch. 
 
 
 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein said legume is a grain legume. 
 
 
 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein said grain legume is selected from a group comprising beans, soybeans, faba beans, peas, chickpeas, lentils and lupins. 
 
 
 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said rhizobial bacterial culture comprises a strain selected from a group comprising Rhizobium sp., Bradyrhizobium sp., Sinorhizobium sp. , Mesorhizobium sp. and Azorhizobium sp. 
 
 
 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said rhizobial bacterial culture is a strain selected from a group comprising Sinorhizobium meliloti strains.   
 
 
 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said rhizobial bacterial culture is a strain selected from a group comprising Sinorhizobium meliloti strain SRmAl 85 and Sinorhizobium meliloti strain SRmA327. 
 
 
 17. A composition for inoculating a legume, said composition comprising an effective amount of a rhizobial bacterial culture selected for its ability to infect and establish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with said legume, said rhizobial bacterial culture provided with an impaired triose-phosphate isomerase activity. 
 
 
 18. The composition of claim 17, wherein said rhizobial bacterial culture is manipulated to impair a functioning triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme activity therein said rhizobial bacterial culture. 
 
 
 19. The composition of claim 18, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by inserting a nucleotide sequence into a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA, said nucleotide sequence configured to interfere with the synthesis of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 20. The composition of claim 18, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by inserting a nucleotide sequence into a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA, said nucleotide sequence configured to interfere with the activation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 21. The composition of claim 18, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by inserting a nucleotide sequence into a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA, said nucleotide sequence configured to interfere with the functional operation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 22. The composition of claim 18, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by deleting a nucleotide sequence from a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA encoding the synthesis of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme.   
 
 
 23. The composition of claim 18, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by deleting a nucleotide sequence from a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA encoding control over the activation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 24. The composition of claim 18, wherein said functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity is impaired by deleting a nucleotide sequence from a portion of rhizobial bacterial DNA encoding control over the functional operation of a triose-phosphate isomerase enzyme. 
 
 
 25. A composition according to claim 17, wherein said legume is a forage legume. 
 
 
 26. A composition according to claim 25, wherein said forage legume is selected from a group comprising alfalfa, clover, trefoil, crown vetch and milkvetch. 
 
 
 27. A composition according to claim 17, wherein said legume is a grain legume. 
 
 
 28. A composition according to claim 27, wherein said grain legume is selected from a group comprising beans, soybeans, faba beans, peas, chickpeas, lentils and lupins. 
 
 
 29. A composition according to claim 17, wherein said rhizobial bacterial culture comprises a strain selected from a group comprising Rhizobium sp., Bradyrhizobium sp., Sinorhizobium sp., Mesorhizobium sp. and Azorhizobium sp. 
 
 
 30. A composition according to claim 29 wherein said rhizobial bacterial culture comprises a strain selected from a group comprising Sinorhizobium meliloti strains.   
 
 
 31. A composition according to claim 30, wherein said rhizobial bacterial culture is selected from a group comprising Sinorhizobium meliloti strain SRmAl 85 and Sinorhizobium meliloti strain SRmA327. 
 
 
 32. A biologically pure rhizobial bacterial culture, said culture provided with an impaired functioning triose-phosphate isomerase activity. 
 
 
 33. A biologically pure rhizobial bacterial culture according to claim 32, wherein said culture comprises a strain selected from a group comprising Rhizobiwn sp., Bradyrhizobium sp., Sinorhizobium sp., Mesorhizobium sp. and Azorhizobium sp. 
 
 
 34. A biologically pure rhizobial bacterial culture according to claim 32, wherein said culture comprises a strain selected from a group comprising Sinorhizobium meliloti strains. 
 
 
 35. A biologically pure culture of Sinorhizobium meliloti strain SRmA185. 
 
 
 36. A biologically pure culture of Sinorhizobium meliloti strain SRmA327.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
