
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  claims : 
 
 1. Isolated nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity, containing a nucleic acid sequence chosen from the group consisting of: a) a nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, b) a nucleic acid sequence which hybridizes under stringent conditions with the nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, or the sequence complementary thereto, c) a nucleic acid sequence which has a homology of at least 70% to the nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, d) a nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity which has at least 80% homology at the amino acid level with the polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, without the activity and/or the selectivity and/or the stability of the polypeptide being substantially reduced compared with the polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium hua utlense 38-2 DSM 14983, e) a nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity with improved activity and/or selectivity and/or stability compared with the polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, prepared by i) mutagenesis of the nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, ii) cloning of the nucleic acid sequence obtainable from i) into a suitable vector with  subsequent transformation into a suitable expression system and iii) detection of the decisive polypeptide with improved activity and/or selectivity and/or stability. 
 
 
 2. Polypeptide chosen from the group consisting of a) the polypeptides coded by a nucleic acid sequence according to claim 1, b) the polypeptides with a homology of min. 80% to the polypeptides with L-amidase activity from hizoJiu_n huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, without the activity and/or the selectivity and/or the stability of the polypeptide being substantially reduced compared with the polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM 14983, c) the polypeptides having L-amidase activity from Rhizobium, in particular Rhizobium huautlense. 
 
 
 3. Plasmids, vectors and microorganisms containing one or more nucleic acids according to claim 1. 
 
 
 4. Primers for the preparation of the nucleic acid sequences according to claim 1 by means of a PCR. 
 
 
 5. Process for the preparation of improved rec- polypeptides with L-amidase activity starting from nucleic acid sequences according to claim 1, characterized in that a) the nucleic acid sequences are subjected to a mutagenesis, b) the nucleic acid sequences obtainable from a) are cloned into a suitable vector and this is transferred into a suitable expression system, and c) the polypeptides of improved activity and/or selectivity and/or stability formed are detected and isolated.   
 
 
 6. rec-Polypeptides or nucleic acid sequences which code these, obtainable according to claim 5. 
 
 
 7. Use of the polypeptides according to claim 2 or 6 for the preparation of chiral enantiomerically enriched organic compounds, such as e.g. amino acids. 
 
 
 8. Use of the nucleic acid sequences according to claim 1 or 6 for the preparation of whole cell catalysts. 
 
 
 9. Whole cell catalysts containing a cloned gene for a polypeptide with L-amidase activity and a cloned gene for a polypeptide with nitrile hydratase activity and optionally a cloned gene for a polypeptide chosen from the group consisting of polypeptides with α- aminonitrile racemase activity, with cyanohydrin racemase activity, with α-hydroxycarboxylic acid racemase activity or with (α- or β-) -amino acid amide racemase activity. 
 
 
 10. Whole cell catalyst according to claim 9, characterized in that it is a polypeptide with L-amidase activity from Rhizobium . 
 
 
 11. Rhizobium huautlense 38-2 DSM14983,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
