
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  36 CLAIMS 
 
 1. Postbiotic composition comprising non-viable Bifidobacterium longum strain CECT 7347 and non-viable Lactobacillus rhamnosus strain CECT 8361 .  
 
 
 2. Postbiotic composition according to claim 1 , wherein the non-viable Bifidobacterium longum and Lactobacillus rhamnosus strains are heat-treated.  
 
 
 3. Postbiotic composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the postbiotic composition is a pharmaceutical composition or a nutritional composition.  
 
 
 4. Postbiotic composition according to claim 3, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and/or an excipient.  
 
 
 5. Postbiotic composition according to any of claims 3 or 4, wherein the composition is formulated in liquid form or in solid form.  
 
 
 6. Postbiotic composition according to claim 5, wherein the solid formulation is selected from the group consisting of tablets, lozenges, sweets, chewable tablets, chewing gum, capsules, sachets, powders, gels, granules, coated particles or coated tablets, tablets and gastro-resistant tablets and capsules and dispersible strips and films.  
 
 
 7. Postbiotic composition according to claim 5, wherein the liquid formulation is selected from the group consisting of oral solutions, suspensions, droplets, emulsions and syrups.  
 
 
 8. Postbiotic composition according to claim 3, wherein the nutritional composition is a food or a nutritional supplement.  
 
 
 9. Postbiotic composition according to claim 8, wherein the food is selected from the group consisting of fruit or vegetable juices, ice cream, infant formula, milk, yogurt, cheese, fermented milk, powdered milk, cereals, baked goods, milkbased products, meat products and beverages. 

 37 Postbiotic composition according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the total concentration of B. longum and L rhamnosus in the composition is between 10 3  and 10 12  cells. Postbiotic composition according to any one of claims 1 to 10, for use as a medicament. Postbiotic composition according to any one of claims 1 to 10, for use in the treatment and/or prevention of anxiety disorders. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
