
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Claims  
 
 1. A composition comprising at least one of polyphenol and at least one probiotic selected from the group consisting of Lactobacillus paracasei and Lactococcus lactis, for use in treating and/or preventing and/or alleviating respiratory allergy symptoms and/or a respiratory allergy reaction in an individual.  
 
 
 2. The composition for use according to claim 1 , wherein the respiratory allergy is selected from the group consisting of allergic rhinitis, dust mite allergy, or asthma.  
 
 
 3. The composition for use according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the symptoms are selected from the group consisting of ocular symptoms, sneezing, stuffy nose, asthma, fatigue and/or tiredness, anxiety, sleep disorder, mood disorder, depression.  
 
 
 4. The composition for use according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the composition further reduces anxiety, swing/mood disorder and/or depression associated with respiratory allergy.  
 
 
 5. The composition for use according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the composition further supports immune system before and during the pollen season.  
 
 
 6. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the individual is a toddler.  
 
 
 7. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the Lactobacillus paracasei is LP-33® or CNCM 1-2116.  
 
 
 8. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the Lactococcus lactis strain is CNCM 1-4154.  
 
 
 9. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the polyphenol is an epicatechin. 

 
 
 
 10. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the polyphenol is provided in the form of a plant extract or concentrate, preferably an extract or concentrate from apple, cocoa or tea.  
 
 
 11. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the epicatechin is provided in the form of a composition comprising at least 0.1 wt%, preferably at least 1 wt%, 10 wt%, 20 wt% or 40 wt% epicatechin.  
 
 
 12. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the epicatechin is administered to the individual in an amount in the range from 25 mg to 10 g per day, preferably from 100 mg to 5 g per day, even more preferably from 300 mg to 1 g per day.  
 
 
 13. The composition for use according to any preceding claims, wherein the at least one probiotic strain and the at least one polyphenol are provided together in one or more prepackaged unit dosage forms, or separately in one or more prepackaged unit dosage forms.  
 
 
 14. A kit comprising at least a composition according to any of Claims 1 to 13 in one or more containers.  
 
 
 15. The kit according to claim 14, which is for use in the management of respiratory allergy and related symptoms, in particular pollen allergy.  
 
 
 16. The kit of any of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one polyphenol and at least one probiotic selected from the group consisting of Lactobacillus paracasei and Lactococcus lactis are separately packed in individual primary packages, each primary package is then contained in a secondary packaging, preferably a carton box comprising a plurality of individual compartments adjacent to one another.  
 
 
 17. The kit according to claim 16, wherein the secondary packaging comprises as many compartments as days in a month.  
 
 
 18. The kit according to any of claim 14 to 17, wherein the kit further provides information associated to the composition, in particular information printed as a QR code or similar type of code. 

 
 
 
 19. The kit according to claim 18, wherein each compartment comprises an information printed as a QR code or similar type of code, wherein the information is different from one compartment to another, and adapted to each individual intake of the composition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
