
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
 
 1. A method for producing antigenic recombinant rotavirus structural proteins in plant cell comprising the steps of: 
 1) preparing the expression plasmid comprising cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural proteins operably linked to the promoter regulating plant-specific expression, and further selection marker; 
 2) introducing the expression plasmid of step 1 into plant cell; 
 3) inducing formation of callus from the transformed plant cells of step 2; 
 4) culturing the callus of step 3; and 5) recovering the recombinant rotavirus structural proteins expressed from the cDNA fragment in the culture solution of step 4. 
 
 
 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the rotavirus of step 1 is a rotavirus derived from human or a rotavirus derived from animals such as cow, Rhesus monkey, pig, dog, cat, birds, and mice. 
 
 
 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the rotavirus structural proteins of step 1 are VP2, VP4, VP6 or VP7. 
 
 
 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural proteins has the sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 1 encoding VP2 derived from human rotavirus. 
 
 
 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus  structural proteins has the sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 2 encoding VP4 derived from human rotavirus. 
 
 
 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural proteins has the sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 3 encoding VP6 derived from human rotavirus. 
 
 
 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural proteins has the sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 4 encoding VP7 serotype Gl derived from human rotavirus. 
 
 
 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural proteins has the sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 5 encoding VP7 serotype G2 derived from human rotavirus. 
 
 
 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural proteins has the sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 6 encoding VP7 serotype G3 derived from human rotavirus. 
 
 
 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural proteins has the sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 7 encoding VP7 serotype G4 derived from human rotavirus. 
 
 
 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the promoter regulating plant-specific  expression of step 1 is cassava vein mosaic virus promoter, ubiquitin promoter, cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CaMV 35S promoter), actin promoter, PG promoter, or endosperm-specific promoter. 
 
 
 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the selection marker of step 1 is neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPΗI) gene, hygromycin phosphotransferase gene, phosphynotricin acetyltransferase gene, or dihydrofolate reductase gene. 
 
 
 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plasmid of step 1 comprises sequentially the right border of T-DNA, nopalin synthase promoter, neomycin phosphotransferase II 
 (NPT II) gene, nopalin transcription termination region, CaMV 35S promoter, cDNA fragment encoding rotavirus structural protein, nopalin transcription termination region and the left border of T-DNA. 
 
 
 14. The method according to claim 13, the plasmid of step 1 is plasmid pILTAB357-VP6 as shown in the cleavage map of Fig. la, plasmid pILTAB357-NP2 as shown in the cleavage map of Fig. lb, plasmid pILTAB357-NP4 as shown in the cleavage map of Fig. lc, or plasmid pILTAB357-VP7 as shown in the cleavage map of Fig.ld. 
 
 
 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the introduction of expression plasmid into plant cell of step 2 is performed by culturing the plant cell and the agrobacterium transformed with recombinant binary vector or cointegration vector together. 
 
 
 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the agrobacterium is agrobacterium  tumefacience or agrobacterium rizogenes. 
 
 
 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the introduction of expression plasmid into plant cell of step 2 is performed by PEG-mediated uptake, microparticle bombardment, or electroporation. 
 
 
 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plant cell of step 2 is edible plant cell selected from the group consisting of tomato, lettuce, Chinese cabbage, banana, potato, radish and rice. 
 
 
 19. A recombinant rotavirus structural protein produced by the method according to any one of claims 1 to 18. 
 
 
 20. A rotavirus-like particle prepared by assembling after folding recombinant rotavirus proteins, VP2, VP6, VP4, and VP7 produced by the method according to any one of claims 
 1 to 18. 
 
 
 21. A rotavirus-like particle prepared by assembling after folding recombinant rotavirus proteins, VP2, VP4, and VP7 produced by the method according to any one of claims 1 to 18. 
 
 
 22. A vaccine composition for prevention and treatment of rotavirus-related disease comprising the recombinant rotavirus structural proteins produced by the method according to any one of claims 1 to 18 as an effective component.   
 
 
 23. The vaccine composition according to claim 22, wherein the recombinant rotavirus structural protein is any one or more selected from the group consisting of VP2, VP4, VP6, VP7 serotype Gl, VP7 serotype G2, VP7 serotype G3, or VP7 serotype G4. 
 
 
 24. The vaccine composition according to claim 22, wherein the recombinant rotavirus structural protein exists in the form of plant cell itself, transgenic plant redifferentiated from plant cell, or the extract of plant cell. 
 
 
 25. The vaccine composition according to claim 22, wherein the vaccine is administered orally or edibly for immunization.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
