
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
 
 1 . An isolated bacterial strain Glycomyces lithiumensis (ECO002), which has been designated Accession number NRRL No. B-68190, deposited in accordance with the Budapest Treaty at the Agricultural Research Service Culture Collection (USDA, ARS, 1815 North University Street, Peoria, IL, 61064) on August 15, 2022.  
 
 
 2. A method of extracting, amplifying, or producing lithium comprising contacting a substrate with the isolated bacterial strain of claim 1 .  
 
 
 3. A method of extracting, amplifying, or producing lithium comprising contacting a geological substrate with the isolated bacterial strain of claim 1 .  
 
 
 4. A method of extracting, amplifying, or producing lithium comprising contacting a liquid substrate with the isolated bacterial strain of claim 1 .  
 
 
 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the bacterial strain is provided at a concentration of about 1 .0 x 10 3  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 4  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 4  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 6  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 7  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 
 10 8  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 9  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 1 ° CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 11  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 12  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 13  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 14  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 15  CFU/gm, about 1 .0 x 10 16  CFU/gm, or about 1 .0 x 10 17  CFU/gm.  
 
 
 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate is solid and is obtained from one or more of a terrestrial, aquatic or marine source.  
 
 
 7. The method of claim 6, wherein, the solid substrate is one or more of lithium batteries, agricultural crops residue and/or stubble, aluminum, bauxite, spodumene, lithium mine substrate, salt flat, soil, biofilm, sediment, native metal rock and sludge residue. 

The method of claim 3, wherein the substrate is one or more of sandstone, limestone, shale, coal, chalk deposit formations, refractory rock ore. The method of claim 4, wherein the liquid substrate is obtained from one or more of a oil materials, gas materials, frac water, waste waters, sludge waters, saltwater, freshwater, irrigation systems, ponds, lakes, rivers, and estuaries source. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate is disinfected and/or sterilized prior to contact with the bacterial strain. The method of claim 2, further comprising adding a fertilizer, nutrient and/or by product composition one or more times to the substrate after contact with the bacterial strain. The method of claim 2, comprising allowing sufficient time for the bacterial strain to colonize and exponentially grow on or in the substrate. The method of claim 4, wherein an anodic and cathodic LED having a wavelength generator set at a range of 100 Hz - 200 KHz is used in the liquid substrate. The method of claim 2, comprising harvesting the lithium by separating the lithium from the bacterial strain contacted substrate. A composition comprising an isolated bacterial strain Glycomyces lithiumensis (ECO002) which has been designated Accession number NRRL No. B-68190, deposited in accordance with the Budapest Treaty at the Agricultural Research Service Culture Collection (USDA, ARS, 1815 North University Street, Peoria, IL, 61064) on August 15, 2022, and a carrier selected from water or agarose. 

The composition of claim 15, wherein the water carrier is selected from deionized water, distilled water, filtered water, well water, tap water, fresh water, sea water, brackish water, mineralized water, carbonated water, saline water, ionically charged water, ionized water, hydrogen water and combinations thereof. The composition of claim 15, further comprising one or more components selected from biosolvents ethyl lactate, ATP, ADP, pyrophosphate, soy based solvents, chemical solvents, green solvents, range of organic acids, lactic acid, malic acid, ascorbic acid, alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, saturates, aromatics, resinoids, asphaltenes, light, mid chain and heavy chain hydrocarbons, sodium nitrate, sodium nitrite, ethanol, sulfur, sulfate, sulfite, nitrogen, chemical surfactants (ionic, anionic, cationic, zwitterionic surfactants), polymers (low, mid, heavy chains), biosurfactants, glycolipids, rhamnolipids (J1 and J2), glycerin, propylene glycol, carbon sugars, dextrose, galactose, sucrose, fructose, complex carbohydrates, starch, cellulose, lignin, keratin, proteins and amino acids, manures, composts, green waste, sludge material, humic and fulvic acids, coal ash and coal derived waste, alumina cytokinins and seaweed extracts. A method of extracting, amplifying, or producing lithium comprising contacting an agriculture crop residue with the isolated bacterial strain of claim 1 . The method of claim 18, wherein the agriculture crop residue is selected from the group consisting of corn, soybean, rice, cotton stubble and all other crop residue. A method of extracting, amplifying, or producing lithium comprising contacting an oil, gas or frac water sample with the isolated bacterial strain of claim 1 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
