
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WHA T IS CLAIMED IS: 
 
 1. A method for increasing the triacylglyceride content of an organism characterised by expressing in the organism a DNA encoding a protein having glycerol 3-phosphate acyltransferase (GPAT) activity. 
 
 
 2. A method according to claim 1, characterised in that the organism is a plant. 
 
 
 3. A method according to claim 2, characterised in that the plant is an oilseed bearing plant. 
 
 
 4. A method according to claim 2, characterised in that the plant is of the genus Brassica. 
 
 
 5. A method according to claim 2, characterised in that the plant is Arabidopsis thaliana. 
 
 
 6. A method according to claim 1 , characterised in that the organism is a yeast. 
 
 
 7. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA comprises a sequence encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 6, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 
 
 8. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA comprises a sequence encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 
 
 9. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the 
 DNA comprises a sequence encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 9, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID NO: 9. 
 
 
 10. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA comprises a sequence encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 9.   
 
 
 11. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 1, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 12. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 2, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 13. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 3, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 14. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 4, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 15. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 5, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 16. A method for increasing the triacylglyceride content of an organism by transforming the organism with a vector, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 6, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 
 
 17. A method for increasing the triacylglyceride content of an organism by transforming the organism with a vector, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 7, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 7. 
 
 
 18. A method for increasing the triacylglyceride content of an organism by transforming the organism with a vector, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 8, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 8.   
 
 
 19. A method for increasing the triacylglyceride content of an organism by transforming the organism with a vector, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 9, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 9. 
 
 
 20. A method for increasing the triacylglyceride content of an organism by transforming the organism with a vector, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 10, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 10. 
 
 
 21. An organism transformed with a DNA, characterised in that the DNA encodes a protein having GPAT activity, and the organism, after transforming, has enhanced ability to produce triacylglycerides (TAGs). 
 
 
 22. An organism according to claim 21, characterised in that the organism is a plant. 
 
 
 23. An organism according to claim 21 , characterised in that the organism is an oil seed bearing plant. 
 
 
 24. An organism according to claim 22, characterised in that the plant is a member of the genus Brassica. 
 
 
 25. An organism according to claim 21 , that is Arabidopsis thaliana. 
 
 
 26. An organism according to claim 21 , characterised in that the organism is a yeast. 
 
 
 27. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA encodes a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 6, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 
 
 28. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA encodes a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 7, or a protein  comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID NO: 7. 
 
 
 29. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA encodes a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 8, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID 
 NO: 8. 
 
 
 30. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA encodes a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 9, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID NO: 9. 
 
 
 31. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA encodes a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 10, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID NO: 10. 
 
 
 32. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 1, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 33. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 2, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 34. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 3, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 35. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 4, or a homologous variant thereof.   
 
 
 36. An organism according to any one of claims 21 to 26, characterised in that the DNA is a DNA having a sequence as recited in SEQ ID NO: 5, or a homologous variant thereof. 
 
 
 37. A vector for genetically transforming an organism, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein having GPAT activity, and the organism, after transforming, exhibits enhanced production of triacylglycerides. 
 
 
 38. A vector according to claim 37, characterised in that the vector comprises DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 6, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% sequence homology with SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 
 
 39. A vector according to claim 37, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 7, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 7. 
 
 
 40. A vector according to claim 37, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 8, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 8. 
 
 
 41. A vector according to claim 37, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 9, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 9. 
 
 
 42. A vector according to claim 37, characterised in that the vector comprises a DNA encoding a protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 10, or a protein comprising a sequence having at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 10. 
 
 
 43. A method for modifying the fatty acid composition of triacylglycerides produced by an organism, characterised in that the organism is transformed with a DNA encoding a protein having GPAT activity.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
