
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 1. A reovirus exhibiting hypersensitivity to interferon and/or improved ability to discriminate between cells expressing an activated Ras pathway and their untransformed counterparts which comprises at least one of a S4 gene which hybridizes under highly stringent conditions to a hybridization probe, the nucleotide sequence of which consists of SEQ ID NO: 7 and a M2 gene which hybridizes under highly stringent conditions to a hybridization probe, the nucleotide sequence of which consists of SEQ ID NO: 8.  
 
 
 2. A reovirus as recited in claim 1 which comprises a M2 gene which hybridizes under highly stringent conditions to a hybridization probe, the nucleotide sequence of which consists of SEQ ID NO: 8 and a S4 gene which hybridizes under highly stringent conditions to a hybridization probe, the nucleotide sequence of which consists of SEQ ID NO: 7.  
 
 
 3. A reovirus as recited in claim 1 comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a protein selected from the group consisting of 1) a σ3 protein comprising the polypeptide as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3 or 2) a μ1 sequence protein comprising the polypeptide as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 
 
 4. A reovirus as recited in claim 3, comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a σ3 protein comprising the polypeptide as set forth in SEQ 
 ID NO: 3 and a μ1 sequence protein comprising the polypeptide as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 6. 
 
 
 5. A reovirus as recited in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said reovirus is a biologically pure isolate of a reovirus strain comprising all of the identifying characteristics of the P4L-12 strain deposited at the International  Depository Authority of Health Canada in Winnipeg under accession number IDAC 059 on May 20, 2004, or a mutant thereof derived from said isolate. 
 
 
 6. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a reovirus isolate as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 
 
 
 7. A method for lysing mammalian cancer cells in vitro comprising applying a cytotoxic amount of an isolate of any one of claims 1 to 5 on mammalian cells expressing an activated Ras pathway. 
 
 
 8. A method as recited in claim 7, wherein said mammalian cells expressing an activated Ras pathway are human cells expressing an activated 
 Ras pathway. 
 
 
 9. A method for lysing mammalian cells expressing an activated Ras pathway in vivo comprising applying a cytotoxic amount of an isolate of any one of claims 1 to 5 to a mammal suspected of having cells expressing an activated Ras pathway. 
 
 
 10. A method as recited in claim 9, further comprising a step of eliminating residual isolate from said mammal comprising administration of interferon to said mammal. 
 
 
 11. A method of claim 11 , wherein said mammal is a human.  
 
 
 12. A method as recited in any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the isolate is P4L-12.   
 
 
 13. A method of identifying an isolate of a mammalian reovirus mutant having an increased ability to discriminate between cells expressing an activated Ras pathway and their normal counterparts comprising comparing the sensitivity to interferon of a candidate reovirus isolate to that of a wild-type reovirus isolate, wherein the candidate reovirus isolate is selected if it is more sensitive to interferon than the wild-type reovirus isolate. 
 
 
 14. A method as recited in claim 14, wherein the step of comparing the sensitivity to interferon of a candidate reovirus isolate to that of a wild-type reovirus isolate is performed in L929 cells.  
 
 
 15. A method of identifying an isolate of a mammalian reovirus mutant having an increased ability to discriminate between cells expressing an activated Ras pathway and their normal counterparts comprising identifying a reovirus which hybridizes to at least one hybridization probe selected from the group consisting of a first probe, the nucleotide sequence of which consists of SEQ ID NO: 7 and a second probe, the nucleotide sequence of which consists of SEQ ID NO: 8. 
 
 
 16. A method of selecting a reovirus strain for treating a tumor in a patient in need thereof comprising determining whether said tumor comprises cells expressing an activated Ras pathway wherein if said tumor comprises cells expressing an activated Ras pathway, a treatment comprising the administration of a reovirus as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 is selected. 
 
 
 17. A use of a reovirus isolate as in any one of claims 1 to 5 for lysing cells expressing an activated Ras pathway. 
 
 
 18. A use of a reovirus isolate as in any one of claims 1 to 5 in  the manufacture of a medicament for lysing cells expressing an activated Ras pathway.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
