
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
 
 Claim 1. The isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02. 
 
 
 Claim 2. A CDMAB of the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1. 
 
 
 Claim 3. A humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 4. A CDMAB of the humanized antibody of claim 3. 
 
 
 Claim 5. A chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 6. A CDMAB of the chimeric antibody of claim 5. 
 
 
 Claim 7. The isolated antibody or CDMAB thereof, of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells. 
 
 
 Claim 8. The isolated hybridoma cell line deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02. 
 
 
 Claim 9. A method for initiating antibody induced cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor comprising: providing a tissue sample from said human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor; providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02, the humanized antibody of  the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02, the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02, or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen; and contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; wherein binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample induces cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 10. A method of reduction of a human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor susceptible to antibody induced cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or said CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 1 1. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 12. The method of claim 1 1 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 14. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity.   
 
 
 Claim 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 16. The method of claim 10 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 17. A monoclonal antibody which specifically binds to the same epitope or epitopes as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02. 
 
 
 Claim 18. A method of reduction of a human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor in a mammal, wherein said human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 21. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement.   
 
 
 Claim 22. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 23. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 24. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 25. A method of reduction of a human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor in a mammal, wherein said human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 28. The method of claim 25 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement.   
 
 
 Claim 29. The method of claim 25 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 30. The method of claim 25 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 31. The method of claim 25 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 32. A binding assay to determine a presence of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor, which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line AR58A314.1 having IDAC Accession No. 141205-02, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02, comprising: providing a tissue sample from said human tumor; providing at least one of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line AR58A314.1 having IDAC Accession No. 141205-02; contacting at least one said provided antibodies or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; and determining binding of said at least one provided antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated. 
 
 
 Claim 33. Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor burden, wherein said human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon  tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 34. The method of claim 33 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 35. The method of claim 34 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 36. The method of claim 33 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 37. The method of claim 33 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 38. The method of claim 33 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 39. The method of claim 33 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 40. Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor burden, wherein said human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as  accession number 141205-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof; in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human lung, pancreatic, ovarian or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 41. The method of claim 40 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 42. The method of claim 41 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 43. The method of claim 40 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 44. The method of claim 40 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 45. The method of claim 40 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 46. The method of claim 40 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 47. A composition effective for treating a human cancerous tumor comprising in combination: an antibody or CDMAB of any one of claims 1,2,3,6,7,8, or 17; a conjugate of said antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive  compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human cancerous tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 48. A composition effective for treating a human cancerous tumor comprising in combination: an antibody or CDMAB of any one of claims 1,2,3,6,7,8, or 17; and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human cancerous tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 49. A composition effective for treating a human cancerous tumor comprising in combination: a conjugate of an antibody, antigen binding fragment, or CDMAB of any one of claims 1,2,3,6,7,8, or 17; with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human cancerous tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 50. An assay kit for detecting the presence of a human cancerous tumor, wherein said human cancerous tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, the kit comprising the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 141205-02 or a CDMAB thereof, and means for detecting whether the monoclonal antibody, or a CDMAB thereof, is bound to a polypeptide whose presence, at a particular cut-off level, is diagnostic of said presence of said human cancerous tumor.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
