
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
 
 Claim 1. The isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-02. 
 
 
 Claim 2. A humanized antibody produced from the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1. 
 
 
 Claim 3. A chimeric antibody produced from the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1. 
 
 
 Claim 4. The isolated hybridoma cell line deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-02. 
 
 
 Claim 5. A method for initiating antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor comprising: providing a tissue sample from said human tumor; providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which - CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen; and contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; wherein binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample induces cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 6. A CDMAB of the isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1. 
 
 
 Claim 7. A CDMAB of the humanized antibody of claim 2. 
 
 
 Claim 8. A CDMAB of the chimeric antibody of claim 3. 
 
 
 Claim 9. The isolated antibody or CDMAB thereof, of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 or 8 conjugated with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells.   
 
 
 Claim 10. A binding assay to determine a presence of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor, which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line AR59A816.14 having IDAC Accession No. 170505-02, comprising: providing a tissue sample from said human tumor; providing at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line AR59A816.14 having IDAC Accession No. 170505-02; contacting said at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; and determining binding of said at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated. 
 
 
 Claim 11. A method of treating a human tumor in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses an at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 12. The method of claim 1 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 14.- The method of claim 11 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement.   
 
 
 Claim 15. The method of claim 11 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 16. The method of claim 11 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized. 
 
 
 Claim 17. The method of claim 11 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized. 
 
 
 Claim 18. A method of treating a human tumor susceptible to antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody encoded by a clone deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505-02 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or said CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 21. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 22. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 23. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is humanized. 
 
 
 Claim 24. The method of claim 18 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is chimerized.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
