
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS 1. A method of detecting recurrence of bladder cancer in a human patient who has had an at least preliminary diagnosis of, and treatment for bladder cancer, said method comprising: 
 (a) obtaining a urine sample from said patient, wherein said sample is collected after treatment for bladder cancer; (b) contacting said patient sample with one or more antibodies which specifically bind to MN/CA IX's extracellular domain; and 
 (c) detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies to MN/CA IX in said patient sample, and comparing the patient sample MN/CA IX level to MN/CA IX levels found in urine samples from normal humans, wherein if the level of MN/CA IX in said patient sample is above 95% of the MN/CA IX levels in the urine samples from said normal humans, that MN/CA IX level in said patient sample is considered to be elevated and to indicate recurrence of bladder cancer. 
 
 
 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said patient urine sample and/or said normal urine samples are concentrated. 
 
 
 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment is selected from the group consisting of surgery, immunotherapy, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 
 
 
 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said bladder cancer is superficial bladder cancer or invasive bladder cancer. 
 
 
 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said bladder cancer is selected from the group consisting of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), adenocarcinoma, sarcoma and small cell carcinoma. 
 
 
 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein said method is in a format that is selected from the group consisting of Western blots, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, radioimmunoassays, competition immunoassays, dual  antibody sandwich assays, immunohistochemical staining assays, agglutination assays, and fluorescent immunoassays. 
 
 
 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein said one or more antibodies are selected from the group consisting of monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, antigen binding antibody fragments comprising an MN/CA IX extracellular domain binding region, and recombinant antibodies. 
 
 
 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein said one or more antibodies are monoclonal antibodies. 
 
 
 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein said one or more monoclonal antibodies are selected from the group consisting of the monoclonal antibodies designated M75 which are secreted by the hybridoma VU-M75, which was deposited at the American Type Culture Collection under ATCC No. HB 11128, and monoclonal antibodies that are not directed to the M75 epitope. 
 
 
 10. The method according to claim 8 wherein the antibodies are monoclonal, and wherein one monoclonal antibody is specific for the carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain of MN/CA IX, and wherein the other monoclonal antibody is directed to the proteoglycan-like (PG) domain of MN/CA IX. 
 
 
 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein the antibody directed to the CA domain is the V/10 monoclonal antibody which is produced by the hybridoma VU-V/10, which was deposited at BCCM™/LMBP in Ghent, Belgium under Accession No. LMBP 6009CB, and wherein the antibody directed to the PG domain is the M75 monoclonal antibody that is secreted from the hybridoma VU- M75, which was deposited at the American Type Culture Collection under ATCC No. HB 11128. 
 
 
 12. A method of detecting recurrence of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urinary tract in a human patient who has had an at least preliminary diagnosis of, and treatment for TCC, said method comprising:  (a) obtaining a urine sample from said patient, wherein said sample is collected after treatment for TCC; 
 (b) contacting said patient sample with one or more antibodies which specifically bind to MN/CA IX's extracellular domain; and (c) detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies to 
 MN/CA IX in said patient sample, and comparing the patient sample MN/CA IX level to MN/CA IX levels found in urine samples from normal humans, wherein if the level of MN/CA IX in said patient sample is above 95% of the MN/CA IX levels in the urine samples from said normal humans, that MN/CA IX level in said patient sample is considered to be elevated and to indicate recurrence of TCC. 
 
 
 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said TCC is selected from the group consisting of TCC of the urinary bladder, TCC of the renal pelvis, TCC of the ureter and TCC of the urethra. 
 
 
 14. A method of detecting recurrence of bladder cancer in a human patient who has had an apparent spontaneous remission of bladder cancer, said method comprising: 
 (a) obtaining a urine sample from said patient; (b) contacting said patient sample with one or more antibodies which specifically bind to MN/CA IX's extracellular domain; and 
 (c) detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies to MN/CA IX in said patient sample, and comparing the patient sample MN/CA IX level to MN/CA IX levels found in urine samples from normal humans, wherein if the level of MN/CA IX in said patient sample is above 95% of the MN/CA IX levels in the urine samples from said normal humans, that MN/CA IX level in said patient sample is considered to be elevated and to indicate recurrence of bladder cancer. 
 
 
 15. A method of detecting recurrence of bladder cancer in a human patient who has had an at least preliminary diagnosis of, and treatment for bladder cancer, said method comprising: 
 (a) obtaining a urine sample from said patient, wherein said sample is collected after treatment for bladder cancer;  (b) contacting said patient sample with one or more antibodies which specifically bind to MN/CA IX's extracellular domain; and 
 (c) detecting and quantifying binding of said one or more antibodies to MN/CA IX in said patient sample, and comparing the patient sample MN/CA IX level to MN/CA IX levels found in urine samples from normal humans, wherein if the level of MN/CA IX in said patient sample is above the upper limit of normal, that MN/CA IX level in said patient sample is considered to be elevated and to indicate recurrence of bladder cancer. 
 
 
 16. The method of claims 1 , 12, 14 or 15 wherein said recurrence is detected at an early stage. 
 
 
 17. The method of claims 1 , 12, 14 or 15 wherein at least one of said one or more antibodies is labeled. 
 
 
 18. A method of monitoring the status of bladder cancer in a patient, and/or monitoring how a patient with said bladder cancer is responding to a therapy, comprising immunologically detecting and quantifying serial changes in soluble MN/CA IX (s-CA IX) levels in urine samples taken from said patient over time; wherein increasing urine levels of s-CA IX over time indicate disease progression or a negative response to said therapy, and wherein decreasing urine levels of s-CA IX over time indicate disease remission or a positive response to said therapy. 
 
 
 19. A method of monitoring the status of bladder cancer in a patient, and/or monitoring how a patient with said bladder cancer is responding to a therapy, comprising immunologically detecting and quantifying soluble MN/CA IX (s-CA IX) levels in urine samples taken from said patient over time, relative to s-CA IX levels in urine samples taken from normal humans; wherein patient urine levels of s-CA IX above 95% of the s-CA IX levels in the urine samples from said normal humans indicate disease progression or a negative response to said therapy, and wherein patient urine levels of s-CA IX at or  below 95% of the s-CA IX levels in the urine samples from said normal humans indicate disease remission or a positive response to said therapy. 
 
 
 20. The method of claims 18 or 19, wherein said immunological detection and quantitation is by an immunoassay in a format that is selected from the group consisting of Western blots, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, radioimmunoassays, competition immunoassays, dual antibody sandwich assays, immunohistochemical staining assays, agglutination assays, and fluorescent immunoassays. 
 
 
 21. The method of claims 18 or 19, wherein said therapy is selected from the group consisting of surgery, immunotherapy, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 
 
 
 22. The method of claims 1-17 wherein the MN/CA IX level and 
 MN/CA IX levels are the soluble MN/CA IX (s-CA IX) level and s-CA IX levels.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
