
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
 
 Claim 1. A method of reduction of a human breast or prostate tumor in a mammal, wherein said human breast or prostate tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's breast or prostate tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 8. A method of reduction of a human breast or prostate tumor susceptible to antibody induced cellular cytotoxicity in a mammal, wherein said human breast or prostate  tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a the hybridoma cell line deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or said CDMAB thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's breast or prostate tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 11. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 12. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 13. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 14. The method of claim 8 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 15. A method of reduction of a human breast or prostate tumor in a mammal, wherein said human breast or prostate tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated  monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof in conjunction with at least one chemotherapuetic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's breast or prostate tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 18. The method of claim 15 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 19. The method of claim 15 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 20. The method of claim 15 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 21. The method of claim 15 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 22. Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor burden, wherein said human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB  thereof in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 25. The method of claim 22 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 26. The method of claim 22 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 27. The method of claim 22 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621. 
 
 
 Claim 28. The method of claim 22 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621. 
 
 
 Claim 29. Use of monoclonal antibodies for reduction of human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor burden, wherein said human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, comprising administering to said mammal said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof; in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to result in a reduction of said mammal's human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety.   
 
 
 Claim 31. The method of claim 30 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 32. The method of claim 29 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 33. The method of claim 29 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 34. The method of claim 29 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621. 
 
 
 Claim 35. The method of claim 29 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621. 
 
 
 Claim 36. A process for reduction of a human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor which expresses at least one epitope of human CD44 antigen which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621, comprising: administering to an individual suffering from said human tumor, at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof that binds the same epitope or epitopes as those bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621; wherein binding of said epitope or epitopes results in a reduction of breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 37. A process for reduction of a human breast, pancreatic, ovarian, prostate or colon tumor which expresses at least one epitope of human CD44 antigen which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621, comprising: administering to an individual suffering from said human tumor, at least one isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof, that binds the same epitope or epitopes as those bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line H460-16-2  having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621; in conjunction with at least one chemotherapeutic agent; wherein said administration results in a reduction of tumor burden. 
 
 
 Claim 38. A binding assay to determine a presence of cancerous cells in a tissue sample selected from a human tumor, which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA- 4621, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621, comprising: providing a tissue sample from said human tumor; providing at least one of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621; contacting at least one said provided antibodies or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; and determining binding of said at least one provided antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated. 
 
 
 Claim 39. A binding assay to determine the presence of cells which express CD44 which is specifically recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621, comprising: providing a cell sample; providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody of CDMBAD thereof;  contacting said isolated monoclonal antibody or said antigen binding fragment with said cell sample; and determining binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof with said cell sample; whereby the presence of cells which express an antigen of CD44 which is specifically bound by said isolated monoclonal antibody or said CDMAB thereof is determined. 
 
 
 Claim 40. A binding assay to determine a presence of cells in a primate tissue sample, which is specifically bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621, the humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or the chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621, comprising: providing a tissue sample from said primate; providing at least one of said isolated monoclonal antibody, said humanized antibody, said chimeric antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621; contacting at least one said provided antibodies or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; and determining binding of said at least one provided antibody or CDMAB thereof with said tissue sample; whereby the presence of said cancerous cells in said tissue sample is indicated. 
 
 
 Claim 41. A method for reducing the growth and survival of cancerous cells, which express at least one epitope of CD44 on the cell's surface, which at least one epitope, when bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said isolated monoclonal antibody results in cell cytotoxicity, comprising: providing the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said isolated monoclonal antibody, and  contacting said cancerous cells with said isolated monoclonal antibody or said antigen binding fragment; whereby cytotoxicity occurs as a result of binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody or said antigen binding fragment with said at least one epitope of CD44. 
 
 
 Claim 42. The method of claim 41 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody is conjugated to a cytotoxic moiety. 
 
 
 Claim 43. The method of claim 42 wherein said cytotoxic moiety is a radioactive isotope. 
 
 
 Claim 44. The method of claim 41 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody activates complement. 
 
 
 Claim 45. The method of claim 41 wherein said isolated monoclonal antibody mediates cellular cytotoxicity. 
 
 
 Claim 46. The method of claim 41 wherein said monoclonal antibody is a humanized antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said humanized antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 47. The method of claim 41 wherein said monoclonal antibody is a chimeric antibody of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said chimeric antibody. 
 
 
 Claim 48. A method for reducing the growth and survival of cancerous cells, which express at least one epitope of CD44 on the cell's surface, which at least one epitope, when bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as PTA-4621 or an antigen binding fragment produced from said isolated monoclonal antibody results in cell cytotoxicity, comprising: providing an isolated monoclonal antibody which competitively inhibits binding of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as PTA- 4621 or of an antigen binding fragment produced from said isolated monoclonal antibody, and which when bound by said at least one epitope of CD44, results in cell cytotoxicity; and  contacting said cancerous cells with said isolated monoclonal antibody or said antigen binding fragment; whereby cytotoxicity occurs as a result of binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody or said antigen binding fragment with said at least one epitope of CD44. 
 
 
 Claim 49. A monoclonal antibody which specifically binds to the same epitope or epitopes as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621. 
 
 
 Claim 50. An isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof, which specifically binds to human CD44, in which the isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof reacts with the same epitope or epitopes of human CD44 as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621; said isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof being characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target human CD44 antigen. 
 
 
 Claim 51. An isolated monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof that recognizes the same epitope or epitopes as those recognized by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line H460-16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621; said monoclonal antibody or CDMAB thereof being characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target epitope or epitopes. 
 
 
 Claim 52. A humanized antibody that specifically binds the same epitope or epitopes of human CD44 as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line H460- 16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621, comprising: a heavy chain variable region comprising the complementarity determining region   and a light chain variable region comprising the complementarity determining region amino acid sequences of SSf  '; ΪD NO:4,  • SEQl&Nøβtoj ffl§ Ip f O:#; or a human CD44 binding fragment thereof.   
 
 
 Claim 53. A humanized antibody that specifically binds the same epitope or epitopes of human CD44 as the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line H460- 16-2 having ATCC Accession No. PTA-4621, comprising: a heavy chain variable region comprising the complementarity determining region amino acid sequences of SEQ-I-ONO: l^^Q H>NC^, and SEQ IJ)J|θ:2; and a light chain variable region comprising the complementarity determining region amino acid sequences of Stef|roN€>it,   ID*NO:6; and variable domain framework regions from the heavy and light chains of a human antibody or human antibody consensus framework; or a human CD44 binding fragment thereof. 
 
 
 Claim 54. A humanized antibody that specifically binds human CD44, wherein said monoclonal antibody comprises a heavy chain variable region amino acid sequence of SBQ JΪ>NO:|; and a light chain variable region amino acid sequence selected of SpQ H-RWD: ' 8; or a human CD44 binding fragment thereof. 
 
 
 Claim 55. A composition effective for treating a human pancreatic, prostate, ovarian, breast or colon tumor comprising in combination: an antibody or CDMAB of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 17, 49, 50 or 54; a conjugate of said antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human breast or prostate tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 56. A composition effective for treating a human breast or prostate tumor comprising in combination: an antibody or CDMAB of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 17, 49, 50 or 54 and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human breast or prostate tumor.   
 
 
 Claim 57. A composition effective for treating a human breast or prostate tumor comprising in combination: a conjugate of an antibody, antigen binding fragment, or CDMAB of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 17, 49, 50 or 54 with a member selected from the group consisting of cytotoxic moieties, enzymes, radioactive compounds, cytokines, interferons, target or reporter moieties and hematogenous cells; and a requisite amount of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier; wherein said composition is effective for treating said human breast or prostate tumor. 
 
 
 Claim 58. An assay kit for detecting the presence of a human cancerous tumor, wherein said human cancerous tumor expresses at least one epitope of an antigen which specifically binds to the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or a CDMAB thereof, which CDMAB is characterized by an ability to competitively inhibit binding of said isolated monoclonal antibody to its target antigen, the kit comprising the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the ATCC as accession number PTA-4621 or a CDMAB thereof, and means for detecting whether the monoclonal antibody, or a CDMAB thereof, is bound to a polypeptide whose presence, at a particular cut-off level, is diagnostic of said presence of said human cancerous tumor.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
