
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. Use of at least one strain of a microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof in the manufacture of a support for administration to a subject for modulating satiety signalling. 
 
 
 2. Use according to claim 1 wherein the microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof modulates one or more satiety markers. 
 
 
 3. Use according to claim 2 wherein the modulation occurs post-prandially. 
 
 
 4. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof modulates one or more of the satiety markers selected from the group consisting of: PYY, CCK, Ghrelin, Leptin, GLP-I 5  orexins, orexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptide Y, acetic acid, amylin and oxyntomodulin. 
 
 
 5. Use according to claim 4 wherein the level of one or more of the following satiety markers is increased in plasma and/or the gut: PYY, CCK, GLP-I, leptin (in peripheral blood), insulin and acetic acid. 
 
 
 6. Use according to claim 4 wherein the level of one or more of the following satiety markers is decreased: ghrelin, orexins and leptin (in brain). 
 
 
 7. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the support is a pharmaceutically acceptable support or a food product. 
 
 
 8. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the use is a cosmetic use and the support is administered to a non-obese subject. 
 
 
 9. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the support is a medicament.  
 
 
 10. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the at least one strain of a microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof is administered to the subject for the treatment and/or prevention of excess weight and/or a disease caused by excess weight. 
 
 
 11. Use according to any one the preceding claims wherein the at least one strain of a microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof is administered to the subject for the treatment and/or prevention of obesity and/or a disease caused by obesity.   
 
 
 12. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism is a probiotic microorganism. 
 
 
 13. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism is a lactic acid bacterium.  
 
 
 14. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism is a probiotic lactic acid bacterium. 
 
 
 15. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism is a strain of Lactobacillus spp. 
 
 
 16. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism is a strain of Lactobacillus acidophilus. 
 
 
 17. Use according to claim 10 wherein the microorganism is Lactobacillus acidophilus strain PTA-4797. 
 
 
 18. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof is used in combination with one or more lipids and/or one or more lipid micelles. 
 
 
 19. Use according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the microorganism and/or metabolite thereof is used in combination with a prebiotic. 
 
 
 20. Use according to claim 19 wherein the prebiotic is one or more of the following: inulin, a transgalacto-oligosaccharide, palantinoseoligosaccharide, soybean oligosaccharide, gentiooligosaccharide, oxylooligomers, non- degradable starch, lactosaccharose, lactulose, lactitol. maltitol, or polydextrose. 
 
 
 21. Use of at least one strain of a microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof in the manufacture of a support for administration to a subject for inducing satiety. 
 
 
 22. A method of modulating satiety signalling in a subject which method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of at least one strain of a microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof. 
 
 
 23. A method according to claim 22 wherein the microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof modulates one or more satiety markers. 
 
 
 24. A method according to claim 22 or claim 22 wherein the modulation occurs post-prandially. 
 
 
 25. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 24 wherein the microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof modulates one or more of the satiety markers  selected from the group consisting of: PYY, CCK, Ghrelin, Leptin, GLP-I, orexins, orexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptide Y, acetic acid, amylin and oxyntomodulin. 
 
 
 26. A method according to claim 25 wherein the level of one or more of the following satiety markers is increased in the plasma and/or gut: PYY, CCK, 
 GLP-I, leptin (in peripheral blood), insulin and acetic acid. 
 
 
 27. A method according to claim 25 wherein the level of one or more of the following satiety markers is decreased: ghrelin, orexins and leptin (in brain). 
 
 
 28. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 27 wherein the microorganism is incorporated into a support. 
 
 
 29. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 28 wherein the support is a pharmaceutically acceptable support or a food product. 
 
 
 30. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 29 wherein the method is a cosmetic method of reducing excess weight in a non-obese subject.  
 
 
 31. A method according to claim 29 or claim 30 wherein the support is a medicament.  
 
 
 32. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 31 wherein the method is a method of treating and/or preventing excess weight and/or a disease caused by excess weight.  
 
 
 33. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 32 wherein the method is a method of treating and/or preventing obesity and/or a disease caused by obesity.  
 
 
 34. A method according to any one claims 22 to 33 wherein the microorganism is a probiotic microorganism.  
 
 
 35. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 34 wherein the microorganism is a lactic acid bacterium. 
 
 
 36. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 35 wherein the microorganism is a probiotic lactic acid bacterium. 
 
 
 37. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 36 wherein the microorganism is a strain of Lactobacillus acidophilus. 
 
 
 38. A method according to any one of claims 22 to 37 wherein the microorganism and/or metabolite thereof is administered in combination with a prebiotic.   
 
 
 39. A method according to claim 38 wherein the prebiotic is one or more of the following: inulin, a transgalacto-oligosaccharide, palantinoseoligosaccharide, soybean oligosaccharide, gentiooligosaccharide, oxylooligomers, non- degradable starch, lactosaccharose, lactulose, lactitol, maltitol, or polydextrose.  
 
 
 40. A method for selecting a microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof to prepare a support for administration to a subject for inducing satiety and/or treating excess weight, including obesity, wherein the method comprises the steps of: 
 1) bringing a microorganism and/or a metabolite thereof into contact with at least one epithelial cell, 2) detecting the expression of a satiety marker in at least one epithelial cell. 
 
 
 41. A method as generally hereinbefore described with reference to the description and drawings. 
 
 
 42. A use as generally hereinbefore described with reference to the description and drawings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
