
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 . A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous wherein:  
 (a) at least part of a gene coding at least part of| a nitrile hydratase enzyme has been deactivated or rendered ineffective.; or (b) any related undesired gene coding a protein irjivolved in the transcription, translation or formation of at least part of the nitrile hydratase enzyme, has been deactivated or rendered ineffective.  
 
 
 2. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous according to c|aim 1 wherein the gene coding for the nitrile hydratase enzyme and the undesired genes are (deactivated or rendered inefficient by means of artificial selection or gene knock-out or knockj-in processes.  
 
 
 3. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous wherein thje nitrile hydratase enzyme has been inhibited.  
 
 
 4. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous wherein a confiponent of the nitrile hydratase enzyme or any protein necessary for the functioning or formation of the nitrile hydratase enzyme, or any other protein necessary for the effective transcription or translation of the gene coding for nitrile hydratase is inhibited.  
 
 
 5. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous according tp claim 3 wherein the nitrile hydratase enzyme is inhibited by the addition of isobutyronitrile.  
 
 
 6. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous according tp any one of the aforementioned claims in which the nitrilase enzyme has been induced. 

 
 
 
 7. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous according to cljaim 6 wherein the nitrilase enzyme is induced by the addition of 8-caprolactam.  
 
 
 8. A naturally adapted strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous adapted to produce a nitrilase enzyme which is active at a high concentration of acrylonitrile.  
 
 
 9. A naturally adapted strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous according to claim 8 which has been optimised by artificially selecting individuals from strain that show nitrilase activity at 
 
 
 acrylonitrile concentrations above 175mM.  
 
 
 10. A naturally adapted strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous according to any one of claims 8 to 9 wherein, during optimisation, undesirable genes
 
 removed from the genome of the organism by using a gene knock-out process.  
 
 
 1 1. A naturally adapted strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous according to any one of claims 8 to 10 which is cultured under conditions in which the production of the nitrilase enzyme is induced by the addition of 8-caprolactam  
 
 
 12. A naturally adapted strain of Rhodococcus rhodocbrous according to any one of claims 8 to 1 1 which is cultured under conditions wherein the production of the nitrile hydratase enzyme is inhibited by the use of isobutyronitrile.  
 
 
 13. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous or a modification or mutant thereof deposited in terms of the Budapest Treaty on 1 1 September 201| identified asunder accession number NCIMB 42803 at NCIMB Ltd, an international Depository Authority situated at Bucksburn, Aberdeen, AB21 9YA, Scotland. 

 
 
 
 14. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 4280|3 or a modification or mutant thereof according to claim 13 wherein at least a part of a gerlie coding at least a part of a nitrile hydratase enzyme that has been deactivated or rendered ineffective.  
 
 
 15. A strain of Rhodcoccus rhodochrous NCIMB 42803( or an modification or mutant thereof according to claim 13 or 14 wherein any gene coding for|a protein involved in the transcription, translation or formation of at least part of the nitril^ hydratase enzyme that has been deactivated or rendered ineffective.  
 
 
 16. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 428(|)3 or a modification or mutant thereof according to any one of claims 13, 14 or 15 which has |been optimised to express a nitrilase enzyme which not deactivated at concentrations of acrylonitrile exceeding 175mM.  
 
 
 17. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 428<f)3 or a modification or mutant thereof according to any one of claims 13 to 17 which cultivate^! in the presence of isobutyronitrile to inhibit residual nitrile hydratase activity.  
 
 
 18. A strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 428q|3 or any modification or mutant thereof according to any one of claims 13 to 18 which has bejen cultivated in the presence of be e- caprolactam to induce production of nitrilase. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
