
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  56 
 1 A biologically pure culture of a strain of a microorganism Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagomstic effects against a plant pathogen 
 2 The culture of claim 1. wherein said microorganism is a stram ACM941 having the identifying characteπstics of ATCC #74447 
 3 The microorganism of claim 1, wherein the microorganism is capable of conferring protection agamst fungal infection in a plant 
 4 The microorganism of claim 1. having antagomstic effects agamst fungal pathogens causing diseases in plants 5 The microorganism of claim 1, having antagomstic effects agamst at least one pathogen selected from the groups of Ascomvcetes, Deuteromvcetes, Oomycetes and Zygomycetes 
 6 The microorganism of claim 1 , wherein protection is conferred agamst fungal pathogens causmg seed decay, foot root rots, seedling blight, head blight and wilt diseases in plants of Asteraceae, Brassicaceae. Chenopodiaceae. Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae. Poaceae and Solanaceae 
 7 The microorganism of claim 1, wherein protection is conferred against are soil -borne and seed-borne Rhizoctonia solani on pea, bean, beet, canola, broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, cucumber, egg plant, pepper, tomato and mangold, soil-borne and seed-borne Alternaria alternata, Aphanomyces euteiches, Ascochyta spp , Fusanum oxyspontm, Fusarium solani, Mycosphaerella pinodes, Pythium aphanidermatum Pythium ultimum Rhizopus sp and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum on pea, and soil-borne and seed-borne Bipolaris sorokiniana and Fusarium graminearum on wheat and barley 
 8 A composition compπsing a culture of a stram of Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagonistic effects against a plant pathogen, and a delivery medium 
 9 The composition of claim 8. wherein said stram of Gliocladium roseum is stram ACM941 having the identifying characteπstics of ATCC #74447 
 10 The composition of claim 8. wherein the deliver}' medium is a plant seed 11 A coated seed, compπsing a plant seed and a coating containing a strain of Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagomstic effects agamst a plant pathogen 12 The seed of claim 11. wherein said strain is strain ACM941 having the identifying characteπstics of ATCC #74447 

 57 The seed according to claim 11, wherein the seed is chosen from the group consisting of seeds of wheat, seeds of barley, seeds of canola, seeds of sugar beet, seeds of table beet, seeds of dry bean, seeds of garden bean, seeds of field pea, seeds of sweet pea, seeds of broccoli, seeds of brussel sprouts, seeds of cabbage, seeds of cauliflower, seeds of cucumber, seeds of egg plant, seeds of pepper, seeds of tomato, or seeds of mangold A composition compπsing a culture of a strain of Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagonistic effects against a plant pathogen, and fungicides The composition of claim 14. wherein said stram is a strain of ACM941 having the identifying characteπstics of ATCC #74447 The composition according to claim 14, wherein the fungicides are fungicides intended for use with pea and other field and horticultural crops, vegetables and ornamentals A method of protecting a plant from fungal infection compπsing the steps of contacting said plant dunng a stage ofthe growth of said plant with a stram of a microorganism 
 Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagonistic effects agamst a fungal plant pathogen The method of claim 17. wherein said stram is a stram ACM941 having the identifying characteπstics of ATCC #74447 The method of claim 17. wherein a seed of said plant is immersed into a composition compπsing Gliocladium roseum before said seed is planted in a growth medium for said plant and said plant is grown A method of controlling fungal plant pathogens, compπsing the steps of providing a delivery medium compπsing a culture of a stram of Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagonistic effects agamst a fungal plant pathogen, and dehveπng said delivery medium to plants The method of claim 20. wherein said strain is a strain ACM941 having the identifying characteπstics of ATCC #74447 A method of enhancmg the growth and productivity of plants compπsing providing a growth medium containing a strain of Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagonistic effects agamst a fungal plant pathogen, and planting plant seedlings or seeds in said growth medium The method of claim 22. wherein said strain is a strain ACM941 having the identifying characteπstics of ATCC #74447 

 58 
 24. A method of protecting pea plants against PRRC pathogens, said method comprising: isolating a culture of a strain of a microorganism Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagonistic effects against fungal plant pathogens; treating a seed with said strain of said microorganism; and planting said seed in a soil environment. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said strain is a strain ACM941 having the identifying characteristics of ATCC #74447. 
 26. A method of propagating strains of Gliocladium roseum exhibiting antagonistic effects against fungal plant pathogens, which comprises incubating spores of said strain in a liquid medium for 3 to 5 days at a temperature in the r?nge of 25 to 30°C under low light intensity and pH > 4.5. 
 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the strain is a strain ACM941 having the identifying characteristics of ATCC #74447. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
