
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 
 
 1. A recombinant plasmid vector which comprises: a kanamycin resistance gene; a promoter; an endoxylanase signal sequence; a nucleotide sequence coding for an oligopeptide consisting of 13 amino acids including 6 consecutive histidine residues; and, a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (hG-CSF) gene. 
 
 
 2. The recombinant plasmid vector of claim 1, wherein the oligopeptide has an amino acid sequence of isoleucine- glutamatic acid-glycine-arginine (Ile-Glu-Gly-Arg) at the C- terminus . 
 
 
 3. A recombinant plasmid vector, pTHKCSFmll represented in Figure 13 which comprises: a kanamycin resistance gene; a Trc promoter; an endoxylanase signal sequence derived from Bacillus sp. ; a nucleotide sequence coding for an oligopeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1; and, a modified gene coding for a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (hG-CSF) , which includes a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 26 at the N-terminus. 
 
 
 4. A microorganism, E. coli transformed with the plasmid vector, pTHKCSFmll of claim 3. 
 
 
 5. The microorganism of claim 4, wherein the E. coli  is selected from the group consisting of E. coli XLl-Blue, E. coli MC4100, E. coli BL21(DE3), E. coli HB101 and E. coli W3110. 
 
 
 6. E. coli MC4100/pTHKCSFmll (KCTC 0754BP) transformed with the plasmid vector, pTHKCSFmll of claim 3. 
 
 
 7. A process for preparing a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor, which comprises the steps of: culturing E. coli transformed with the plasmid vector of claim 1 to obtain a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor fusion protein; and, treating the human granulocyte colony stimulating factor fusion protein with a protease to obtain a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor. 
 
 
 8. The process for preparing a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor of claim 7, wherein the plasmid vector of claim 1 is pTHKCSFmll. 
 
 
 9. The process for preparing a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor of claim 7, wherein the human granulocyte colony stimulating factor fusion protein is obtained from the culture by employing Ni-column. 
 
 
 10. The process for preparing a human granulocyte colony stimulating factor of claim 7, wherein the protease is Factor Xa.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
