
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CLAIMS What is claimed is: 
 
 1. A composition comprising:  
 (a) a recombinant Bacillus cereus family member that expresses a fusion protein comprising:  
 (i) an enzyme having serine protease activity comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to any one of SEQ ID NOs: 4-5 or an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO: 6; and  
 (ii) a targeting sequence, exosporium protein, or exosporium protein fragment that targets the fusion protein to the exosporium of a recombinant Bacillus cereus family member; and  
 (b) at least one insecticide or plant growth promoter, in a synergistically effective amount.  
 
 
 2. A composition comprising:  
 (a) exosporium fragments from a recombinant Bacillus cereus family member that expresses a fusion protein comprising:  
 (i) an enzyme having serine protease activity comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to any one of SEQ ID NOs: 4-5 or an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO: 6; and  
 (ii) a targeting sequence, exosporium protein, or exosporium protein fragment that targets the fusion protein to the exosporium of a recombinant Bacillus cereus family member; and  
 (b) at least one insecticide or plant growth promoter, in a synergistically effective amount, wherein the Bacillus cereus family member comprises a mutation that results in an exosporium that is easier to remove from the spore as compared to the exopsorium of a wildtype spore.  
 
 
 3. The composition of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the targeting sequence or exosporium protein comprises: 

 (a) an amino acid sequence having at least about 43% identity with amino acids 20-35 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the identity with amino acids 25-35 is at least about 54%;  
 (b) amino acids 1-35 of SEQ ID NO: 1;  
 (c) amino acids 20-35 of SEQ ID NO: 1;  
 (d) SEQ ID NO: 1;  
 (e) SEQ ID NO: 2; or  
 (f) an amino acid sequence having at least 85% identity with SEQ ID NO: 3.  
 
 
 4. The composition of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the targeting sequence comprises the sequence X1-X2-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9-X10-X11-X12-X13-X14-X15-X16, wherein:  
 Xi is any amino acid or absent;  
 X2 is phenylalanine (F), leucine (L), isoleucine (I), or methionine (M);  
 X3 is any amino acid;  
 X4 is proline (P) or serine (S);  
 X5 is any amino acid;  
 Xe is leucine (L), asparagine (N), serine (S), or isoleucine (I);  
 X7 is valine (V) or isoleucine (I);  
 Xs is glycine (G);  
 X9 is proline (P);  
 X10 is threonine (T) or proline (P);  
 Xu is leucine (L) or phenylalanine (F);  
 X12 is proline (P);  
 X13 is any amino acid;  
 X14 is any amino acid;  
 X15 is proline (P), glutamine (Q), or threonine (T); and  
 Xi6 is proline (P), threonine (T), or serine (S).  
 
 
 5. The composition of any one of Claims 1-3, wherein the targeting sequence, exosporium protein, or exosporium protein fragment further comprises a methionine, serine, or threonine residue at the amino acid position immediately preceding the first amino acid of the targeting sequence, exosporium protein, or exosporium protein fragment. 

 
 
 
 6. The composition of any one of Claims 1-4, wherein the fusion protein further comprises an amino acid linker between the targeting sequence, the exosporium protein, or the exosporium protein fragment and the enzyme having serine protease activity.  
 
 
 7. The composition of Claim 6, wherein the linker comprises a polyalanine linker, a polyglycine linker, or a linker comprising a mixture of both alanine and glycine residues.  
 
 
 8. A composition of any one of Claims 1-7, wherein the enzyme comprises SEQ ID NO: 4.  
 
 
 9. A composition of any one of Claims 1-7, wherein the enzyme comprises SEQ ID NO: 5.  
 
 
 10. A composition of any one of Claims 1-7, wherein the enzyme comprises SEQ ID NO: 6.  
 
 
 11. The composition of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the recombinant Bacillus cereus family member is derived from Bacillus thuringiensis BT013A.  
 
 
 12. The composition of Claim 2, wherein the recombinant Bacillus cereus family member comprises:  
 (i) a mutation in a CotE gene;  
 (ii) a mutation in an ExsY gene;  
 (iii) a mutation in a CotY gene;  
 (iv) a mutation in a ExsA gene; and  
 (v) a mutation in a CotO gene.  
 
 
 13. The composition of Claim 12, wherein the recombinant Bacillus cereus family member comprises a mutation in the ExsY gene.  
 
 
 14. The recombinant Bacillus cereus family member of Claim 13 wherein the recombinant Bacillus cereus family member comprises a knock-out of the ExsY gene. 

 
 
 
 15. The composition of any one of the preceding claims and an agriculturally acceptable carrier.  
 
 
 16. The composition of any one of the preceding claims wherein the insecticide is selected from the group consisting of acetamiprid, aldicarb, amitraz, beta-cyfluthrin, carbaryl, clothianidin, cyfluthrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, endosulfan, ethion, ethiprole, ethoprophos, fenamiphos, fenobucarb, fenthion, fipronil, flubendiamide, fluopyram, flupyradifurone, formetanate, heptanophos, imidacloprid, methamidophos, methiocarb, methomyl, niclosamide, oxydemeton-methyl, phosalone, silafluofen, spirodiclofen, spiromesifen, spirotetramat, thiacloprid, thiodicarb, tralomethrin, triazophos, triflumuron, vamidothion, Bacillus firmus CNMC 1-1582, and Purpureocillium lilacinum strain 251.  
 
 
 17. The composition of any one of the preceding claims wherein the insecticide is clothianidin or fluopyram.  
 
 
 18. A plant seed treated with the composition of any one of the preceding claims.  
 
 
 19. A method for stimulating plant growth and/or promoting plant health and/or controlling nematodes, comprising applying the composition of any one of Claims 1-17 to a plant growth medium, a plant, a plant seed, or an area surrounding a plant or a plant seed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
