
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
　ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌と、無脂乳固形分と、を含む飲料であって、 
　前記無脂乳固形分が前記飲料の総質量の８．０質量％未満である、飲料。
 A beverage containing bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei and non-fat milk solids,  A beverage, wherein the non-fat milk solids content is less than 8.0% by mass of the total mass of the beverage. 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記飲料が前記細菌を１．０×１０ ８ ＣＦＵ／ｇ以上含む、請求項１に記載の飲料。
 The beverage according to claim 1, wherein the beverage contains the bacteria at 1.0 x  108  CFU/g or more. 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記飲料が前記細菌を２．０×１０ ８ ＣＦＵ／ｇ以上含む、請求項１に記載の飲料。
 The beverage according to claim 1, wherein the beverage contains the bacteria at 2.0 x  108  CFU/g or more. 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記無脂乳固形分が前記飲料の総質量の４．０質量％以下である、請求項１に記載の飲料。
 
The beverage according to claim 1, wherein the non-fat milk solids content is 4.0% by mass or less of the total mass of the beverage.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記細菌がラクトバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｏｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）　ＭＣＣ１８４９（ＮＩＴＥ　ＢＰ－０１６３３）である、請求項１に記載の飲料。
 
The beverage according to claim 1, wherein the bacterium is Lactobacillus paracasei MCC1849 (NITE BP-01633).
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記細菌が死菌である、請求項１に記載の飲料。
 
The beverage according to claim 1, wherein the bacteria are dead bacteria.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記飲料のｐＨが５．０以下である、請求項１に記載の飲料。
 
The beverage according to claim 1, wherein the beverage has a pH of 5.0 or less.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　前記飲料が発酵乳飲料である、請求項１に記載の飲料。
 
The beverage according to claim 1, wherein the beverage is a fermented milk beverage.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　請求項１に記載の飲料を製造するための飲料の製造方法であって、ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌を、無脂乳固形分を８．０質量％未満含む飲料に添加することを含む、飲料の製造方法。
 
A method for producing a beverage according to claim 1, wherein bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei are added to a beverage containing less than 8.0% by mass of non-fat milk solids. A method of manufacturing a beverage, including:
 
 
 
     
 
   
　ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌を無脂乳固形分が８．０質量％未満の飲料に添加することを含む、飲料の酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強のための方法。
 
A method for reducing the sourness and/or enhancing the richness of a beverage, which comprises adding bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei to a beverage having a non-fat milk solids content of less than 8.0% by mass. .
 
 
 
     
 
   
　無脂乳固形分が８．０質量％未満の飲料における酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強のための、ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌の使用。
 
Use of bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei for reducing acidity and/or enhancing body taste in a beverage with a non-fat milk solids content of less than 8.0% by mass.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌を有効成分とする、無脂乳固形分が８．０質量％未満の飲料の酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強のための剤。
 
An agent for reducing the acidity and/or enhancing the richness of a beverage with a non-fat milk solids content of less than 8.0% by mass, which contains bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei as an active ingredient.
 
 
 
     
 
   
　無脂乳固形分が８．０質量％未満の飲料の酸味の低減及び／又はコク味の増強における使用のための、ラクチカゼイバチルス・パラカゼイ（Ｌａｃｔｉｃａｓｅｉｂａｃｉｌｌｕｓ　ｐａｒａｃａｓｅｉ）に属する細菌。
 
Bacteria belonging to Lacticaseibacillus paracasei for use in reducing acidity and/or enhancing body taste of beverages with non-fat milk solids content of less than 8.0% by mass.
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
