
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is claimed is: 
 
 1. A method for producing an antibody binding only to a sulfonylated isoform of a protein; not to a non-sulfonylated isoform of the protein and other proteins, comprising: providing a peptide comprised of 6 to 15 amino acids derived from the protein and having a sulfonylated cysteine residue; inducing an antibody to the peptide in an animal; and isolating a population of antibodies reactive to the peptide. 
 
 
 2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising screening an antibody unreactive to the non-sulfonylated protein isoform having a non-sulfonylated cysteine residue from the isolated population of antibodies, and collecting the screened antibody. 
 
 
 3. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising verifying that the antibody obtained from the isolating or the collecting specifically binds to the protein isoform having a sulfonylated cysteine residue; not to other proteins. 
 
 
 4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the protein is glyceraldehyde-3- phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), peroxiredoxin I (Prx I) or peroxiredoxin 
 VI (Prx VI). 
 
 
 5. The method of claim 1 , wherein in the providing a peptide of 6 to 15 amino acids and having a sulfonylated cysteine residue, the sulfonylated peptide is any one of peptides having amino acid sequences of SEQ ID Nos. 4, 5, and 6. 
 
 
 6. An antibody which specifically binds only to a sulfonylated isoform of a protein having a sulfonylated cysteine residue; not to a non-sulfonylated isoform of the protein and other proteins. 
 
 
 7. The antibody of claim 6, which specifically binds to a sulfonylated Prx I isoform having a sulfonylated Cys 52.   
 
 
 8. The antibody of claim 7, which is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell under accession No. KCLRF-BP-00088 or KCLRF-BP- 00098. 
 
 
 9. The antibody of claim 6, which specifically binds to a sulfonylated Prx VI isoform having a sulfonylated Cys 47. 
 
 
 10. The antibody of claim 9, which is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell under accession No. KCLRF-BP-00099 (Prx VI). 
 
 
 11. The antibody of claim 6, which specifically binds to a sulfonylated GAPDH isoform having a sulfonylated Cys 152. 
 
 
 12. The antibody of claim 11 , which is a monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma cell under accession No. KCLRF-BP-000100. 
 
 
 13. The antibody of any one of claims 6 to 12, which is produced using the method of any one of claims 1 , 2, 4 and 5.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
